Supported byBy Alan Feuer and Emily Palmer[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]Though narco-trafficking has long relied on old technologies like boats, trucks and tunnels, both dealers and United States authorities have started adapting to the digital age. That became clear last week when prosecutors at the drug trial of Joaquín Guzmán Loera, the Mexican crime lord known as El Chapo, suddenly unveiled the cyber-spy tale of a 20-something I.T. expert who helped take down the kingpin’s empire.The techie-turned-informant, a young Colombian named Christian Rodriguez, told his story of working for — and eventually betraying — Mr. Guzmán in two days of jaw-dropping testimony in Federal District Court in Brooklyn.At first, Mr. Rodriguez said, he helped Mr. Guzmán develop an encrypted cellphone network that was accessible by Wi-Fi even in the crime lord’s hide-outs deep in the Sierra Madre mountains. He also fed his boss’s obsession with snooping by quietly installing spyware on the phones he gave his wife, two mistresses and other cartel operatives.But then came the 21st-century twist: After a covert sting operation, the F.B.I. recruited Mr. Rodriguez to infiltrate the same communications systems he had built. With his help, American authorities were able to obtain a trove of Mr. Guzmán’s private calls and text messages.An F.B.I. agent, who had studied the audio of Mr. Guzmán’s calls, as well as the audio in several videos, described El Chapo’s voice as high-pitched with a nasally undertone. “It has a kind of sing-songy variation to it,” he told jurors.On Tuesday the jury watched the 2015 Rolling Stone video (again). As he does often, El Chapo pulled back in his chair, eyes cast down at the screen, and watched the videotaped interview from the farthest position possible.Comparing the intercepted phone calls to the Rolling Stone video, the F.B.I. agent said, “the speech patterns are slower, more deliberate” because of the nature of an interview. But, he said, the singsong nature of El Chapo’s voice was still evident.To further identity El Chapo, federal authorities also examined audio from phone calls the kingpin made in May during his detention at the Metropolitan Correctional Center.El Chapo had a home in a gated community in Los Cabos, Mexico. Using cellphone footage from an F.B.I. operation, the prosecution took the jury on a grand tour of the estate, where they had seized phones, ledgers and other paperwork. Three people were arrested during the takedown: Agustina Cabanillas Acosta, Maria Macias and Omar Hinojosa.Judge Brian M. Cogan characterized the lengthy tour — complete with a closet survey — as “a real estate broker’s” presentation, warning the prosecution: “Don’t beat a dead horse.”Via cellphone footage, the jury “walked through” the bedroom and bathroom (replete with women’s makeup and grooming products), as well as the closet housing size 9 Nike sneakers, a medium-size Banana Republic shirt and a vast collection of jeans.“Did you ever find the defendant?” the prosecutor asked one of the F.B.I. agents, who testified this week.“No we did not,” the agent responded.The F.B.I. got both Mr. Rodriguez and a woman named Andrea Velez to cooperate in exchange for no jail time, plus payments of $460,000 and $290,000, respectively. So essentially, Mr. Rodriguez got paid for his cooperation after having worked for years with the Cifuentes family and El Chapo, and after trying to work with a Russian crime organization that turned out to be a group of F.B.I. agents on a high-stakes sting operation.The United States government paid the pair for services and expenses they incurred while cooperating; according to Mr. Rodriguez, his payments came mostly in cash-stuffed envelopes.Mr. Rodriguez didn’t even have to pay taxes on those payments until recently. But he said, “I never lied,” adding, “They never asked me about it.”By the time the Internal Revenue Service caught up to Mr. Rodriguez, he owed $35,000. So far he’s paid $10,000 of that, paying a comfortable $250 per month.As the defense has repeatedly pointed out, Mr. Guzmán’s formal education did not extend past the second grade, “and in fact he has a fair amount of difficulty writing,” one of his attorneys, Eduardo Balarezo, told the jury last week.Still, Mr. Guzmán is often scrawling notes on a yellow legal pad and providing them to his attorneys. His handwriting is atrocious, according to one member of the defense team.Mr. Rodriguez also had a hard time believing it. “He used to read the reports directly in the past, so I don’t think he had any problems reading,” Mr. Rodriguez said of the spyware reports frequently produced for Mr. Guzmán.Mr. Rodriguez added that Mr. Guzmán spent “a fair amount of time reading those reports.” (Then again, Mr. Rodriguez testified that during their first face-to-face encounter, Mr. Guzmán told him that “he didn’t like to write on the computer. He preferred to talk.”)Anyone who has ever recalled a story among family knows the phenomenon: Someone across the table immediately corrects you and tells it completely differently. The jury was treated to just such a comparison last week. Two brothers have testified in the trial: the elder sibling Jorge Cifuentes Villa testified in December, and Alex Cifuentes Villa began testifying on Thursday. (He will continue Monday.) They told some of the same stories — albeit a little differently.Jorge Cifuentes’s version: Around 2003, he flew to the mountains of Mexico for his first-ever meeting with El Chapo — to celebrate the second anniversary of the drug kingpin’s escape from jail (the first time). The final flight, aboard a rickety airplane (Mr. Guzmán was known for using outdated Cessnas), took about 30 to 45 minutes. The flight made Mr. Cifuentes feel “awful,” he said. “I actually had to pray three Our Fathers,” he said. Then they landed on an ascending airstrip.As a result of such a rough experience, Jorge Cifuentes decided to gift El Chapo a $1 million blue helicopter “so that he would fly in a more civilized way.”When he told El Chapo about the gift, the kingpin “got really excited, and his little eyes were actually shining,” Mr. Cifuentes recalled, adding: “And he said, ‘Thank you.’”Later, pilots crashed the helicopter at an ostrich ranch. Thinking fast, Mr. Cifuentes simply rolled the damaged helicopter off a cliff to collect the insurance so El Chapo could buy another helicopter.But, in his own retelling, Alex Cifuentes instead thrust himself as the protagonist of the story of how El Chapo got a helicopter. He told the jury Thursday that he once asked Mr. Guzmán if he could fly a plane. (Mr. Cifuentes’s brothers could, but Chapo could not.) Flying ensured security in case of an attempted arrest or other problem, Alex Cifuentes told him. If he could fly, “He could get in the helicopter, turn it on and fly from one mountain to the other.”Then, Alex Cifuentes told his brother, Jorge, to send their own helicopter to increase Chapo’s security. The helicopter later burned at an aircraft hangar in Culiacán, Mexico.The government announced on Thursday that it would likely rest its case next week. But before that, expect a few surprises.On Monday, Alex Cifuentes will return to the stand.For years, Alex Cifuentes told jurors he was so close to Mr. Guzmán that the kingpin called him both his “right-hand man” and “left-hand man.” By his own account, he oversaw nearly every aspect of the crime lord’s business. He arranged cocaine deals in Colombia, Ecuador, Bolivia and Panama. He bought farms for Mr. Guzmán in Costa Rica. He sold cocaine and heroin for him in New York and often purchased weapons on his behalf. Mr. Cifuentes even said he interpreted for Mr. Guzmán at trafficking meetings conducted in English.There were hints last week that one of Mr. Guzmán’s mistresses, Lucero Guadalupe Sanchez Lopez, would also testify. Ms. Sanchez, a former legislator from Mr. Guzmán’s home state of Sinaloa, was arrested on drug charges in California in 2017. If called to the stand, she may walk the jury through text messages she exchanged with the defendant.Mr. Guzmán’s lawyers offered their own hints last week about how they plan to defend him. As court adjourned Thursday, they told Judge Cogan they intend to remove an unnamed criminal from prison to testify on their client’s behalf.

Paul Manafort’s Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dad’s Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back”House Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City Hotline2011: Arab Spring‘Can The President Be Impeached?’ We Answer Your QuestionsCalving Season

Supported byletterA cybersecurity expert says multifactor authentication has had a positive effect.To the Editor:Re “Perils of Two-Step Authentication” (Op-Ed, Jan. 28):Josephine Wolff raises legitimate questions about the effectiveness of two-factor authentication and its use as a best practice. But she engages in the timeless tradition of using FUD — fear, uncertainty and doubt — to make her argument. Certainly, multifactor authentication is not the holy grail in identity authentication, but it has had a positive effect in securing data compared with the password-only approach, which has failed miserably. Until we are able to move security completely away from the end user, the end user has a responsibility to do whatever he or she can to manage risk. There will always be vulnerabilities in cybersecurity. Our objective should be to create resilient solutions that manage risk effectively. Best practices are used because they are informed approaches and solutions to common challenges. As we seek to create a culture of cybersecurity awareness around the globe, the best practice of multifactor authentication is not the ultimate goal, but is certainly an important step forward in educating the user on his or her responsibility in cyberspace. Kiersten E. TodtArlington, Va.The writer, a former executive director of the Presidential Commission on Enhancing National Cybersecurity, is managing director of the Cyber Readiness Institute, a nonprofit.

Supported byMediatorBy Jim RutenbergThe Russian media was having way too much fun last week.They were downright gleeful over new reports that a group of Democrats had used online disinformation in the campaign against Roy Moore, the Republican candidate for Senate in Alabama in 2017.“Well, well, well,” went the general line in the Russian media, “look what we have here.”Their reaction was understandable, given the news that American political operatives had tried the same kind of troll operations that United States intelligence officials believe the Russian government used in an attempt to swing the 2016 presidential election to Donald J. Trump.The Russian news outlet Sputnik jumped on the news, saying last week that the Alabama operation “seems to cast Democrats’ Russiagate accusations into further doubt.”Also getting in on the action was RT, the Kremlin-financed news organization once known as Russia Today. “The only ‘Russian bots’ to meddle in U.S. elections,” the network reported, “belonged to Democrat-linked experts.”The disinformation campaign in Alabama included a scheme to produce false evidence that Russian Twitter bots were working to elect Mr. Moore. After the revelations first came to light, John Griffing, a former executive director of the Harris County Republican Party in Texas, appeared on RT to go after the Democrats.“I’ve always been suspicious that the Russia-bot narrative was flimsy and probably made up,” Mr. Griffing told RT viewers. “Simply because that’s the kind of thing the Democratic Party does — they make things up in order to create the basis for an attack on the right wing.”In addition to giving Russia new ammunition in its defense against election-meddling allegations, the progressives’ political caper in Alabama sent a chilling message to the rest of us: Reality-warping attacks are now coming from inside the house.If the trend intensifies, the 2020 presidential campaign will make the media shenanigans of 2016 seem genteel.Sputnik and RT were keying off two articles in The New York Times, which broke the news of the Alabama efforts. The first, by Scott Shane and Alan Blinder in late December, detailed an operation that included the creation of fake Russian Twitter accounts, as well as a phony Facebook page purportedly set up by conservative Alabamians opposed to Mr. Moore, who ended up losing to his Democratic opponent, Doug Jones.One of the people behind that effort, Jonathon Morgan, of the cyber security firm New Knowledge, minimized the effort by saying it was only an experiment to observe how such Russian-style tactics work in real time (though an internal report said the project was seeking to depress turnout for Mr. Moore).The main financial backer of that project, the LinkedIn co-founder Reid Hoffman, disavowed it, saying he did not know the money he had donated to groups affiliated with Democrats would finance such a thing. “I want to be unequivocal,” he wrote on Medium. “There is absolutely no place in our democracy for manipulating facts or using falsehoods to gain political power.”Mr. Jones, the politician who benefited from the operation, angrily denounced it and called for a federal investigation. So maybe there was reason to think it was all just a blip.Then came the second Times article, last week, on another shady tactic used against Mr. Moore. This one involved a Facebook page for a fake group of Baptists supporting Mr. Moore as a potential ally in their bid to ban alcohol in Alabama — a surefire way to alienate voters if ever there was one.The phony teetotaling campaign was the work of another group of liberal activists with different financiers, whose identities remain unknown. And it came with an implicit warning: Get used to it.As one of the organizers, the progressive activist Matt Osborne, told The Times, “If you don’t do it, you’re fighting with one hand tied behind your back.” Given the way some of Mr. Trump’s backers — here and in Russia — have engaged in such tactics, he said, there was “a moral imperative to do this.”Researchers who have been studying the Russian disinformation tactics have been girding for just such a development.“One of the things we’ve been talking about in the last year is how the real threat’s going to be when it’s not just Russia or Iran — nation-states with budgets — but when every single person with an issue starts engaging in this type of manipulative behavior,” said Bret Schafer, an analyst at the Alliance for Securing Democracy, a research project at the German Marshall Fund of the United States. “It’s absolutely awful for democracy.”Mr. Schafer had particular reason to be chagrined. New Knowledge helped build the website for the Alliance’s disinformation-tracking database, Hamilton68, which had monitored suspected Russian-linked accounts, tracking the falsehoods they spread and the discord they tried to sow. (New Knowledge also helped write a report on Russian troll activity released last month by the Senate Intelligence Committee.) The Alabama project, Mr. Schafer told me, “undercuts our collective ability to take other countries to task for their deceptive, online behavior.”Fight-fire-with-fire reasoning is bubbling up on the left as the social media giants continue to struggle to stop distortion campaigns in real time. It was only after The Times and The Washington Post reported on the Alabama operations that Facebook shut down the suspect accounts.None of this bodes well for the 2020 campaign, which has entered its first stage at a time when analysts in and out of government are still trying to determine the full effect disinformation had in the last presidential election.Kathleen Hall Jamieson, a professor at the Annenberg School for Communication at the University of Pennsylvania, has concluded that the Russian activity probably affected the outcome. In “Cyber War,” her just-published book about the 2016 campaign, she reports that Russia “tried to mobilize, demobilize, and shift the sorts of voters that Trump needed to win.”If the results of the investigation by the special counsel Robert S. Mueller III confirm her conclusion, some people may be deterred from employing such tactics. On the other hand, nothing spawns copycats like victory.Big questions remain about how to keep American political campaigns from descending into disinformation, barring still-elusive legal or technical remedies, as Ms. Jamieson told me in an interview. “How do you make sure it’s marked off as inappropriate?” she said. “The real question for 2020 is, what is out of bounds? Is there anything?”As a start, I reached out to various expected 2020 players to see if they would eschew such tactics.I was heartened to receive this statement from Senator Cory Booker, Democrat of New Jersey: “There is no place in our politics for deceptive tactics that undermine trust in — and the credibility of — our democratic process and stand in contrast to our values.”Senator Elizabeth Warren’s presidential exploratory committee said, “Our campaign doesn’t support these kinds of tactics.” The campaign manager for Representative Tulsi Gabbard’s 2020 committee, Rania Batrice, said Ms. Gabbard “strongly condemns” the use of disinformation.The Republican Party chairwoman, Ronna McDaniel — sounding as if she might be relishing the Democrats’ turn under the microscope — said, “These tactics are shameful.”Then there were those whose offices I never heard back from — Bernie Sanders, Kamala Harris, Beto O’Rourke, Julián Castro, the Democratic Party itself and Mr. Trump’s re-election team.The real surprise was former Vice President Joe Biden.“Not going to have any comment on that for you,” a spokesman said.Maybe Mr. Biden wants to keep his options open.

Supported byBy Ben SisarioNetflix has blocked an episode of its show “Patriot Act With Hasan Minhaj” from streaming in Saudi Arabia after the Saudi government complained that the episode — which is critical of the crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman — violated its cybercrime laws.In the episode, first shown in October, Mr. Minhaj critiques the United States’ longstanding relationship with Saudi Arabia after the murder of the dissident Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi.“Now would be a good time to reassess our relationship with Saudi Arabia,” Mr. Minhaj said, “and I mean that as a Muslim and an American.”After receiving a takedown request last month from the Saudi government’s Communications and Information Technology Commission, Netflix removed the episode from viewing in Saudi Arabia last week. The news was first reported by  The Financial Times.In a statement, Netflix defended its decision: “We strongly support artistic freedom worldwide and only removed this episode in Saudi Arabia after we had received a valid legal request — and to comply with local law.”The episode remains available to Netflix customers elsewhere in the world, and it can also be seen by viewers in Saudi Arabia through the show’s YouTube channel, according to The Financial Times. YouTube did not immediately respond on Tuesday to an email asking whether it had received a complaint from the Saudi government.The “Patriot Act” episode appears to be the only program that the Saudi government has asked Netflix to block there.Mr. Minhaj has not commented publicly on the removal of the episode. But in an interview published in The Atlantic last month, Mr. Minhaj spoke of the fear he felt after creating it.“There was a lot of discussion in my family about not doing it,” he said in the interview. “I’ve just come to personal and spiritual terms with what the repercussions are.”Article 6 of the Saudi anti-cyber crime law, which was cited by the Saudi commission in its request to Netflix, prohibits the “production, preparation, transmission or storage of material impinging on public order, religious values, public morals and privacy” on the internet. Journalism advocates call it a powerful and all-encompassing instrument for the Saudi government to censor virtually any speech online.The Committee to Protect Journalists, which rates Saudi Arabia the third most censored country in the world, has documented the growing crackdown on journalists since the appointment last year of Prince Mohammed, who was first promoted as an agent of modernization and reform.Under Prince Mohammed’s rule, “authorities have wielded state mechanisms ostensibly focused on terrorism to silence journalists,” according to a blog post published in September by the Committee to Protect Journalists.The Communications and Information Technology Commission did not immediately respond to a request for comment.It is not unheard of for Western news organizations to have critical reports censored in authoritarian countries. But that action is often taken by local partners, and sometimes without notice.In 2014, for example, a report about Pakistan’s relationship to Al Qaeda was deleted from thousands of print copies of the International New York Times in Pakistan — resulting in a blank spot on the front page — “without our knowledge or agreement,” a representative of The Times said at the time.An earlier version of this article misstated the name of an organization that has documented a crackdown on journalists in Saudi Arabia. It is the Committee to Protect Journalists, not the Committee to Project Journalists.

Supported byBy Janet MorrisseyWhen a major electronics firm started seeing strange documents being printed out remotely on more than 100 of its smart printers late last year, it frantically contacted the manufacturer to investigate.The firm nervously wondered how — and why — an unauthorized third party was sending documents to its printers remotely. And worse, it feared its entire corporate network had been breached. The manufacturer immediately called in the big guns, Charles Henderson, global head of X-Force Red, a professional hacking team at IBM Security, for answers.“Unless you believe in ghosts, you get kind of concerned when your printer just starts printing stuff out that you can’t account for,” said Mr. Henderson, who declined to name the firm for privacy reasons.His team quickly identified the problem as a flaw in the printer’s remote access function, and a patch fixed the vulnerability.Finding and testing for flaws and breaches in smart devices is Mr. Henderson’s specialty. “I run a team of hackers,” is how Mr. Henderson describes his role, then clarifying they are paid professional hackers who look for bugs, glitches, and malfunctions.And with demand for smart devices, ranging from smart lights to outdoor sprinklers, surging in mainstream America, his job has gotten a lot busier.“We’ve received roughly five times the number of requests for security testing of IoT [internet of things] devices in the last year,” said Mr. Henderson. “Growth has been immense over the last year to 18 months.”Indeed, the soaring popularity of smart speakers, like Amazon Echo and Google Home, is starting to move the “Smart Home” into mainstream America. It’s no longer just tech geeks and phone-obsessed millennials who are scouring the tech universe for information on the next best gadget that lets them control lights, TVs, appliances, door locks, and even lawn sprinklers with a voice command or tap on a smartphone.But all of this buzz and hype are putting pressure on smart device makers to rush their gadgets into the market while demand is hot — and sometimes, this means security features take a back seat, said Mr. Henderson. And cyber criminals are watching.“Criminals rob banks because that’s where the money is,” said Charles Golvin, senior research director at Gartner, a research and advisory firm. “They’ll commit cyber crimes because that’s where the opportunity is.”Some get crafty, making mock interfaces on a person’s phone that look like an IoT’s interface login to steal passwords — similar to the way thieves send fake emails to people pretending to be from credit card companies and banks.Experts caution consumers to research carefully and move diligently when adding smart devices to their home network. “If one device gets compromised, it could be the same as allowing an attacker to plug into the entire network,” giving the criminal control over all devices, warned Mr. Henderson.Concerns about privacy and the complexity of smart home devices are two reasons fully outfitted smart homes are not likely to happen overnight, experts say.Wanting — and actually installing — smart devices are very different scenarios with the latter requiring patience and diligent research in navigating through a costly, cumbersome and often time-consuming process.The setup also takes time, as it involves choosing brands and understanding routers, hubs and wireless communications protocols, like ZigBee, Z-Wave, and Bluetooth, so that all of the smart devices can talk to each other.“If you actually want to make your house do half a dozen of these things, it’s a lot of work,” said Frank Gillett, vice president and principal analyst at Forrester Research. “You need people to be patient and comfortable with working through multiple steps of instruction, and in my observation, a significant amount of the population is not comfortable or patient.” If you own a lot of different smart devices, it will mean many different apps on your phone. The process of opening and launching an app every time you want to control a device — or remember the exact phrases to get a voice assistant to do it — can be cumbersome and annoying.One company, Sevenhugs, simplifies this problem.The firm’s single remote allows a person to control a home’s smart TV, lights, entertainment system, and other connected devices simply by pointing the remote at them. It means family members and guests can access all the smart devices without having to use a personal phone or launch multiple apps, said Simon Tchedikian, founder of Sevenhugs.Ultimately Mr. Tchedikian wants to streamline content as well so that someone could ask for the latest season of the ‘Game of Thrones’ and it would pop up without having to know and specify which streaming service, platform or on-demand service was offering it.Beside ease of use, privacy and security are critical.Using smart cameras can be great for remotely monitoring an aging parent or checking whether a child got home from school, but they could be intrusive and even risky if the system is hacked.To lower risk and security concerns, experts suggest steps people should take when building a smart home.First, buy quality brands. While some big brands, like Samsung, are leaders in smart appliances, the rest of the smart device world is fragmented, with much of the innovation coming from focused start-ups and midsize companies.Some of the current leaders are Philips Hue for lights, Nest and Ecobee for thermostats, Ring for doorbells, and WeMo for light switches and plugs.If it’s a start up, research the firm and make sure it has a strong online presence, preferably with active user groups discussing the product.“If they don’t have a budget for an online presence, then they probably don’t have a budget for security,” said Mr. Henderson.Second, security updates are critical. “Most technology companies are going to have vulnerabilities — it’s hard to get everything right” at the start, said Mr. Henderson. He recommends checking for patches or firmware updates on the company’s website to make sure it’s on top of security issues.Third, create strong Wi-Fi passwords and engage two-factor authentication where possible.Fourth, if you move into a new home, buy a secondhand car, or purchase a used smart device, always make sure previous owners’ accounts aren’t still connected to the hubs, routers and devices.Mr. Henderson recalls selling his smart car and buying a new one from the same manufacturer. When he went to enroll his new car in the auto manufacturer’s app, he discovered his old account had not been deleted from his old convertible.“They hadn’t revoked my access,” said Mr. Henderson. “I could have tracked down my old car using the GPS functionality, I could have unlocked it, honked the horn — I could have made the new owner of my old car think the car was possessed.”Also, always look at all devices that are connected to your network.“If you’ve got rogue devices connected to your network, it’s not your network anymore. It’s a shared network,” said Mr. Henderson. “If you had access to somebody’s home hub — and that hub had a sprinkler system, light switches and garage door opener connected to it, you could open their garage door, turn on the sprinkler systems, and start flashing the lights.”Fifth, consumers need to prepare for a smart device’s failure — whether it’s because of a product malfunction or a power or internet outage.“Turn off power to the devices and unplug the internet and see what happens,” said Mr. Henderson. “But you definitely don’t want to wait and find out that they don’t work when you’re standing outside your home trying to get in.”Being technology, it will malfunction sometimes, whether it’s smart or not.“Things do break,” said Mr. Golvin.Finding someone to repair that new technology can be challenging — even if it’s made by a big brand.When Jordan and Ben Feria of Orange Park, Fla., purchased a $4,400 Samsung Family Hub smart refrigerator in late 2017, the refrigerator portion broke down last November, even though the smart features on the outside touch-screen continued to work. The couple took to social media and a local TV station after dozens of technicians were unable to repair it. When the couple contacted Samsung, they were told there was only one authorized technician in Northeast Florida who could handle the repair — and even then, the person was unable to repair it. The couple wound up getting a refund.A Samsung spokeswoman, Alicia Clarke, described the Feria’s problem as a “rare experience” and said “the matter was resolved with the consumer,” and noted that the problem was related to the refrigerator’s compressor — not with the smart technology.“While it is unfortunate that the Ferias had an issue with their refrigerator, the problem was limited to the unit’s compressor, not any of the smart technology incorporated into the Family Hub,” she said.And finally, in this fiercely-competitive and fast-changing space, many smart device makers will implode — and consumers need a fallback plan in place if they do. Even the most promising company can go belly-up without warning.LightHouse was widely hailed as a trailblazer with its home cameras that offered 3D sensors and artificial intelligence capabilities. Its cameras could monitor with such precision that a voice command asking the app how a vase got broken earlier in the day could pull up the section of video that showed the child or pet who did the deed, said Mr. Gillett of Forrester.LightHouse was viewed as the future. However, the company abruptly closed shop in late 2018, with a note on its webpage, entitled “Lights Out” that read: ‘Unfortunately, we did not achieve the commercial success we were looking for and will be shutting down operations in the near future.’“This is what happens sometimes with these cool vendors who are ahead of the curve,” said Mr. Golvin. “Bleeding edge versus leading edge.”

Supported bythe lookRock music fans have emerged from the digital underground in Nigeria.Photographs by Jan Hoek and Stephen TayoText by Edwin OkoloProduced by Eve LyonsLAGOS, Nigeria — Rock music is often produced and enjoyed under the pressure of social constraints, and the restrictive culture of post-dictatorial Nigeria made for a perfect cooker. In the 1990s and 2000s, teenagers who rejected the country’s politics of restraint in dress, physical appearance and behavior embraced American punk and metal imports. Footage of Western concertgoers dancing in defiance of any discernible rhythm, alone in a throng of bodies, moving with careless abandon to music, presented a possible escape.Many of these young Nigerians first encountered bands beloved by early 2000s emo kids — Linkin Park, Evanescence, Paramore, Fall Out Boy — online and, through the exchange of music, formed a digital community. They called themselves “Gothics,” shorthand for a composite of binding beliefs and aesthetics from different rock subgenres, including dark clothing, severe makeup and an obsession with death.“The scene’s true beginnings are the MySpace groups from the early 2000s,” said Cheyi Okoaye, 30, who runs the music website Audio Inferno. “MySpace used to let you create and save these playlists, and many of us would sleep over in cyber cafes just to discover new bands.”In the last decade, Nigeria’s Gothics have taken their act offline. Each year they congregate at Rocktoberfest, the only festival in Nigeria dedicated to rock and alternative music. It has become a crucial meeting place for members of the country’s underground rock community.“I’m grounded,” said Kaego Odiah, a 19-year-old student at the University of Lagos who had come to Freedom Park in Lagos for the festival. “I snuck out of the house because I had to be here.”Rocktoberfest presents a rare opportunity for fans to dress un-self-consciously in their gothic uniform of funereal black. At the smaller but more frequent sing-off parties held in karaoke bars around the city, for example, many Gothics come straight from their day jobs, still in dress shirts and ties, and try to avoid meeting anyone they know from their lives outside the community.“We want to take rock music mainstream. That’s why we have the festival,” said Lekan Dada, 30, the co-founder of RockNation Nigeria, which produces the festival and promotes rock bands. “Radio stations are reluctant to play rock music. Nigerian cable stations dedicate one hour a week to rock. If we are going to make this mainstream, we need to create our own ecosystem.”Music has long underpinned Nigerian oral histories, worship songs, state ceremonies and other speech acts. But these traditional songs encourage the expression of joy and hope, and rarely fear, doubt or despair. In rock music, young Nigerians found their range of emotions reflected: Anger, loneliness, grief and insecurity could exist alongside rapture.Some Nigerians have made spreading the gospel of rock music their life’s work. The influx of American rock inspired Nigerian bands with similar sounds, including the Isomers, an alternative rock band reminiscent of Kings of Leon; 1 Last Autograph, whose metalcore sound harks back to Avenged Sevenfold; and Mimido, whose music has Christian rock influences. Mr. Okoaye’s website Audio Inferno publishes music reviews and interviews of rock bands across Africa. And through RockNation Nigeria, Mr. Dada creates spaces for fans to congregate offline.Meeting up in person has helped Gothics assimilate without diluting their dark style. Henry Uche, who calls himself a vampire and prefers the name GothicHenri, dresses in all black and ties his looks together with chains, studs and a pentagram necklace. He believes that by incorporating a few gothic visual elements into outfits, he and his fellow fans are better able to telegraph a shared love of rock.“In the future, I can see festivals where people who identify with the different subcultures can connect while listening to good music, especially because our country isn’t alternative-friendly,” he said.While the crowds at Nigerian rock shows are mostly female, few women have become community leaders. The alternative singer Bianca Adanna Okorocha, 29, who performs as Clay, is one exception. She considers her perseverance an achievement.“I’m still here when most of the people I got into the scene with have fallen away to assimilate into ‘real life,’” she said.But more notable is her ability to fuse rock music with Afropop, the predominant contemporary sound in Lagos, and the success she has had in doing so. When Ms. Okorocha performs, she is magnetic, coaxing the bodies in her thrall to give in to their baser selves. She was one of the eight acts that headlined Rocktoberfest, along with the aforementioned Mimido.As the night neared its end, some wiped their faces clean of face paint, stuffed their torn tees and jewelry into backpacks and handbags, and headed home. The gothic purists, on the other hand, scattered and swarmed karaoke bars to scream along to death metal and throw back drinks, without a care for how they may appear to onlookers.“I don’t know exactly what it means to be goth,” Yasmin Mbadiwe, 23, said. “Only that other people say I am.”Jan Hoek is an artist and writer in Amsterdam. Stephen Tayo is a photographer in Lagos. Edwin Okolo is a writer and editor in Lagos. 

Supported byCensorship still stifles speech in Cuba, but new connectivity and growth in social media are bound to accelerate dissent and activism. By Yoani SánchezMs. Sánchez is a journalist and activist.HAVANA — A young man posts images of street flooding in the neighborhood of Centro Habana on social media. His neighbors take to the internet to voice their complaints, demanding that the government repair the sewage system. Sixty years after the triumph of the revolution, Cubans are still not allowed to express their discontent in the public plazas, so they make the most of these virtual spaces to call for action by the government.On Dec. 6, a new line of communication opened up for the more than 11 million people inhabiting this Caribbean island. As on the day our child was born or we heard that Fidel Castro had died, we Cubans will remember what we were doing when mobile internet services were rolled out here for the first time.We all know how and when this new era of connectivity started, but few dare forecast how far it will go. The prospect of increased interconnectedness among the public must now be Revolution Square officials’ worst nightmare.Deals offering four gigabytes of data for web browsing cost $30 a month, roughly the same as most Cubans' monthly salary. With prices that high, most people cannot afford it. Many are forced to choose between browsing online or eating; chatting with a friend or replacing a light bulb; watching a video on YouTube or paying for their shared taxi to get to work.But that doesn’t mean that Cubans aren’t taking advantage of the service. A good portion of the bills incurred by web surfers are being paid by expatriates who want to keep in touch with their families in Cuba. Those who were criticized by the government for leaving the island instead of staying to build Utopia are the primary supporters of those who remained behind. This contradiction has not gone unnoticed, giving rise to a new way to refer to exiles: “de traidores a traedólares” or “from traitors to dollar-bringers.” And it was Cubans in the diaspora, echoing voices within the country, who lobbied most vigorously for increased connectivity. In 2015, when the first wireless Wi-Fi hot spots were set up in squares and parks around Cuba, thousands streamed in to talk to their relatives abroad, giddy with excitement over this new way to connect.The image of that collective euphoria stands in stark contrast to web access earlier in this century, when the first shops offering internet services — though only to tourists and other foreigners — opened in Cuba. In April 2007, from one such place near the neoclassical Capitol in Havana, I wrote my first post for my blog, Generación Y.Wearing sandals, feigning the dazed look of someone who just landed on the island, and covered with enough sunblock to convince the security guards that I was from Europe, I babbled a few words, mixing bad Spanish and coarse German. This ruse allowed me to buy my first card, sit down in front of a state-owned computer and log my first entry: A blogger was born!Those early years also saw the rise of an army of government trolls who flooded the comments sections of homegrown sites that were critical of the Communist Party with revolutionary slogans. Under pseudonyms they attacked dissenters with epithets and rumors and questioned the moral standing of those who disagreed with them. They no longer needed the courts or bullets to assassinate reputations; a simple tweet punch would do the trick.The revolutionary commander Ramiro Valdés stood out during this time for launching brutal ideological battles to fight new technology. As minister of information and communication, Mr. Valdés defined in harsh words the relationship between Cuba’s “historic generation” of older revolutionaries and the new era brought about by mobile phones, USB memory sticks and computers built by Cubans using parts bought on the black market.The internet is a “wild colt” that “can and must be controlled,” Mr. Valdés once said. Digital spaces were simply strongholds that needed to be overrun, and this would remain the government’s attitude for over a decade.Independent blog pioneers were accused of being “cyber-mercenaries” who were trained by the Central Intelligence Agency, and a project called Operation Truth began at Cuba’s University of Information Sciences to back the official position. The first Cuban Twitter users were portrayed on national television as pawns in the new offensive by the United States against the revolution.From that fierce battle for digital expression I came away with some social scars.Though I no longer need to fake an accent to get internet access, the government’s intolerance of free expression has barely eased, and independent journalists are still targets for the police. The digital plaza — a virtual space made up of social networks where Cubans who cannot physically meet can express their political views — offers a more holistic view of Cuba, one from a pluralistic perspective. Access to 3G mobile technology has allowed activists to call for a no vote in the referendum on the new Constitution, to strongly condemn Decree 349, which limits artistic freedom, and to protest how Miguel Díaz-Canel was elevated to the presidency without the people’s consent. But in Parliament, in public places and at the centers of power, only one side of the argument can still be heard.While he doesn’t have a political agenda of his own, President Díaz-Canel has sought to set himself apart from his predecessors, at least in the way he approaches technology. The country’s first president in more than half a century whose surname isn’t Castro, Mr. Díaz-Canel opened a Twitter account and directed his cabinet ministers to do the same. Unfortunately, this 58-year-old engineer, handpicked by Raúl Castro, as well as the few officials (now in their 80s) left from the historic generation, use this new media to reinforce their old political model and attack dissenters.Mr. Díaz-Canel uses the same worn-out rhetoric as the Castros did, which means that his internet presence is unlikely to pump the oxygen of new technologies into the rusty lungs of a 20th-century revolution.Yet the new connectivity is already taking a heavy toll on a government that has been unable to get on the bandwagon of modernity.Young people complaining about the quality of the bread in the rationed food market; dissidents recording the violent arrests; passengers annoyed by the poor state of public transport posting about being stuck on broken-down buses; Facebook comments objecting to what deputies of the National Assembly say — all part of the phenomenon we have been witnessing since the mobile internet rollout.Activism is bound to grow along with this connectivity. As access to the internet increases, coming together, at least digitally, will be easier in a country where the right of free association remains limited, even if dissenters and journalists still have to find their way around censorship. More important, it will weaken the control over information exerted by a system originally conceived to change everything, but which today resists even the slightest hint of change.Yoani Sánchez manages the blog Generación Y and the digital newspaper 14ymedio. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported byBy Nellie BowlesSYDNEY, Australia — A new law in Australia gives law enforcement authorities the power to compel tech-industry giants like Apple to create tools that would circumvent the encryption built into their products.The law, the Telecommunications and Other Legislation Amendment (Assistance and Access) Act 2018, applies only to tech products used or sold in Australia. But its impact could be global: If Apple were to build a so-called back door for iPhones sold in Australia, the authorities in other countries, including the United States, could force the company to use that same tool to assist their investigations.The Australian law went into effect last month. It is one of the most assertive efforts by lawmakers to rein in tech companies, which have argued for decades that unbreakable encryption is an imperative part of protecting the private communications of their customers.In recent years, law enforcement officials have complained that tough encryption has made it impossible for them to gain access to the online discussions of crime suspects, particularly in time-sensitive terror investigations.The tension between tech and law enforcement came to a head about four years ago when Apple resisted a federal request to help investigators gain access to a locked iPhone that had belonged to a man who took part in a shooting that killed 14 people in San Bernardino, Calif.The Federal Bureau of Investigation eventually found a way around the iPhone’s security without Apple’s help. But if Apple had already created a workaround — a back door, in industry terms — to sell phones in Australia, the American authorities could have simply ordered Apple to use the tool.“This may be an encryption back door for the U.S.,” said Sharon Bradford Franklin, director of surveillance and cybersecurity policy for the New America think tank’s Open Technology Institute. “A back door to an encryption back door.”The Australian law has limited oversight mechanisms. A notice sent to a company must be “reasonable and proportionate,” and the authorities must have a warrant to gain access to a phone or service. But the agency issuing the notice decides what is reasonable.There is an appeals process if a company is asked to build a new interception capability. A firm can ask an independent assessment panel consisting of a technical expert and a former judicial officer to review the notice.The law says the Australian authorities cannot ask a company to build universal decryption capabilities or introduce systemwide weaknesses. But security experts and tech companies like Apple said that did not reflect what they would have to do to comply with an order. It is impossible, for example, to create a workaround for one iPhone’s encryption without potentially introducing something that could work for all of them, they said.“All of Australian technology is tarnished by it,” said Mike Cannon-Brookes, one of the founders of Atlassian, a business software company that is among Australia’s biggest tech companies.Australia is a member of the so-called Five Eyes intelligence alliance, and it is not the only country in the alliance with a law like this. Britain passed the Investigatory Powers Act in 2016. For British law enforcement to gain access to data, it must first ask a judicial approver.“We’re not the first,” said Michelle Price, chief executive of the nonprofit Australian Cyber Security Growth Network. “But Australia’s version has gone much further.”Apple officials called the law “dangerously ambiguous” and “alarming.”“Encryption is simply math,” Apple wrote in a statement submitted to the Australian Parliament’s Joint Committee on Intelligence and Security on Oct. 12. “Any process that weakens the mathematical models that protect user data for anyone will by extension weaken the protections for everyone.”But politicians said the risk of encryption technology’s being used by terrorists was too significant. Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull of Australia said in July, “The laws of mathematics are very commendable, but the only law that applies in Australia is the law of Australia.”Technology companies in the United States have argued that they cannot be compelled to create tools for breaking the encryption in their products because computer code is a kind of free speech protected under the First Amendment. But building tools to satisfy the Australian authorities would essentially make that argument moot. Countries around the world could demand access to the tool.Apple is hardly the only tech company that could feel the impact of the Australian law. Anyone with a website is considered a communications provider, subject to the law. Any company that “provides an electronic service that has one or more end-users in Australia” is required to comply.A long list of companies meets that description, such as smartphone makers and Facebook and its WhatsApp messaging service.“Once WhatsApp, for example, builds a system at the behest of the Australians, everyone gets to use it,” said Nate Cardozo, the senior information security counsel on the Electronic Frontier Foundation’s legal team, who has studied the new law.The law allows government agencies like the Australian Secret Intelligence Service or the Australian Federal Police to compel tech companies to install software on a user’s device to get around encryption. It can also compel the company not to alert the user.“So if WhatsApp gets one of these notices and does not comply, they’re subject to asset seizure and even hypothetically having executives hauled into jail for contempt if they refuse to do so,” Mr. Cardozo said.There is confusion about other secrecy requirements of the law. For example, would it require employees who received requests to keep them secret from their employers? The Australian Department of Home Affairs, which coordinates strategy and leadership of the country’s national security policy, says it would not. But security experts at the Electronic Frontier Foundation and at companies like the password manager 1Password say it is actually unclear.Australia does not have a strong tech industry, but it is growing, with investors and start-ups and a few established companies. And in the tightknit tech community that does exist, the new law has been a gut punch.“We never thought it would pass,” said Alan Jones, chief executive of M8 Ventures, a tech investment firm in Sydney. “We all just figured that Australia’s political leaders would consider the expert advice that told them this was nuts.”Sarah Moran, the chief executive of Girl Geek Academy, which teaches young women to code, said she had planned to begin tech start-ups in Australia until the law passed.“I was looking to found two tech companies, but why would you build tech here now?” she asked. “I don’t think the government understands how drastically it impacts not just the tech that’s built here but also the enthusiasm and entrepreneurial investment that Australians will be willing to make.”Ms. Moran, who is based in Melbourne, said she was questioning even the program she currently runs. “Why would I tell young girls to go build tech here if there’s not going to be any tech industry?” she asked.Casey Ellis, 37, was raised in Sydney but lives in San Francisco, where he runs a cybersecurity firm called Bugcrowd. He has already heard about companies that have become wary of hiring Australian firms, he said.“People are factoring it in as a risk when you’re looking at hiring an Australian now,” Mr. Ellis said. “It’s causing a chilling effect around Australian companies.”Follow Nellie Bowles on Twitter: @NellieBowles.Paul Mozur contributed reporting from Hong Kong.Want more Australia coverage and discussion? Sign up for the weekly Australia Letter, start your day with your local Morning Briefing and join us in our Facebook group.

Supported byBy Mark Landler and David E. SangerWASHINGTON — President Trump will meet with North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, in late February, the White House announced on Friday, renewing a high-level diplomatic dialogue that has eased tensions with a rogue nuclear state but has shown no progress in eliminating its nuclear arsenal.A White House official said the date and the location of the meeting would be announced later, suggesting either that the Trump administration was seeking concessions from the North Koreans before Mr. Trump committed to the meeting or that the two sides were still haggling over the site and other logistical details. Vietnam, Thailand and Hawaii have all been mentioned as potential settings.The announcement came after a 90-minute meeting in the Oval Office between Mr. Trump and Kim Yong-chol, a former North Korean intelligence chief, who has acted as the top nuclear negotiator for Mr. Kim. Mr. Trump, who had made a celebratory appearance after a session with the intelligence chief last June to announce his first meeting with Mr. Kim, this time stayed out of sight.But his press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, told reporters, “We’ve continued to make progress.”The United States, she said, will keep sanctions against North Korea in place until Mr. Kim agrees to surrender his arsenal. She added that the North had shown “good faith” in releasing imprisoned Americans.Still, the very fact that Mr. Trump agreed to a second meeting with Mr. Kim — after North Korea’s failure to begin dismantling its arsenal following their first meeting in Singapore last June — is a sign of how quickly the president has backed away from his initial insistence on swift disarmament by Pyongyang.And it raised anew the question of whether Mr. Trump will enter a second summit meeting better prepared than he was in Singapore. While Mr. Trump emerged from that meeting brimming with optimism and declared on Twitter that there was “no longer a Nuclear Threat from North Korea,” American intelligence officials have concluded that the country continues to produce nuclear fuel, weapons and missiles.Mr. Trump has said in recent months that he does not expect the negotiations to produce a quick result, arguing that the halt in nuclear and missile testing by North Korea for the past 13 months — and his personal relationship with Mr. Kim — had taken the urgency out of the disarmament issue.“I got all the time in the world,” the president said in New York in September. “I don’t have to rush it.”Mr. Kim, for his part, has balked at dealing with anybody but Mr. Trump. He rebuffed Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, whom Mr. Trump put in charge of the negotiations, and told the president in a letter that he preferred to deal directly with him.There have been no substantive working-level negotiations between the two sides since last fall. While Mr. Pompeo emerged from a meeting with Mr. Kim in October declaring that the North Korean leader told him “he’s ready to allow” inspectors into a nuclear testing site that the North had blown up, that inspection has yet to happen.Larger issues of inspection will hang over the next meeting as well. One subject under discussion with the North, according to officials of several countries briefed on the talks, is whether the country would “freeze” its nuclear fuel and weapons production during negotiations, so that the country’s arsenal does not grow while talks drag on.“But that would require highly intrusive inspections, across the country,” said Jung Pak, a former senior C.I.A. analyst now at the Brookings Institution. “Previous negotiations have fallen apart because of our insistence on those inspections. And who is going to take North Korea’s word on whether it is truly freezing its program?”Some analysts and diplomats said they worried that by agreeing so readily to another meeting, Mr. Trump was inviting the same situation as in Singapore — a press extravaganza that produces little in the way of concrete achievements.“You have to be afraid that we are playing into North Korea’s hands,” said Joseph Y. Yun, a former State Department official who has negotiated with the North. “They want to wait, and have as much time as possible elapse when they don’t do anything significant to denuclearize, and become accepted regionally and globally as a nuclear state.”The risk was even greater, some said, because of the multiple political and legal challenges facing Mr. Trump, from the government shutdown to the investigation of ties between his presidential campaign and Russia.“The timing is advantageous to the North Koreans, because Trump needs some sort of win now,” said Victor D. Cha, who negotiated with Pyongyang during the George W. Bush administration and was briefly considered by Mr. Trump as ambassador to South Korea.Among the potential risks, experts said, is that Mr. Trump would accept a deal with Mr. Kim that would freeze his nuclear program and dismantle his intercontinental ballistic missiles, but leave in place the North’s arsenal of intermediate and short-range missiles.That would rattle Japan, which lies in range of those rockets. The Japanese are also concerned that Mr. Trump, long a critic of the expense of maintaining an American military presence in Asia, would agree to pull troops out of South Korea and Japan.Still, South Korea welcomed the announcement, with a government spokesman saying he expected the second Trump-Kim summit meeting to be “a turning point for solidifying a permanent peace on the Korean Peninsula.”The first step the North Koreans were expected to take after the June meeting was a detailed inventory of their nuclear assets. That was to include the number of weapons they have produced — variously estimated at 20 to 60 nuclear bombs — the locations of those weapons, any nuclear materials used to produce new weapons and a detailed list of their missiles and missile launchers.The United States wanted to use the list to truth-test the North, comparing it with what American intelligence agencies have gathered over the past 30 years. But the North Koreans have complained that the inventory would amount to a targeting list, guiding the United States on what to attack should Mr. Trump ever order a pre-emptive strike.For months that standoff produced a stalemate in diplomatic talks, along with the American insistence that major steps toward denuclearization would have to precede any initial lifting of sanctions.The arrival of Kim Yong-chol, and his stay at a hotel in Dupont Circle, was an unusual spectacle for a senior North Korean, particularly since the United States suspects him in the torpedoing of a South Korean naval ship, and one of the most aggressive cyber takedowns of an American company, Sony Pictures Entertainment.Despite leading one of the world’s most reclusive states, Kim Jong-un has proved to be an adroit figure on the world stage. This month, he spent three days in Beijing, where President Xi Jinping of China and his wife, Peng Liyuan, hosted a dinner for Mr. Kim and his wife, Ri Sol-ju.Analysts said the visit not only enabled Mr. Kim to line up China’s support of his continued negotiations with Mr. Trump, but also sent a signal to the American president that he was not the only game in town.During previous visits to China by Mr. Kim, Mr. Trump has complained that Mr. Xi was encouraging the North Korean leader to drive a hard bargain with the United States. But Mr. Trump said nothing during this last visit, which came as his aides were negotiating with China to try to bring an end to an escalating trade war between the two countries.Vietnam appears to be the leading candidate to host the meeting. North Korea maintains diplomatic relations with it, and the United States could point to Vietnam as a country run by former enemies who have turned into trading partners.Choe Sang-Hun contributed reporting from Seoul, South Korea.

Supported byBy David E. Sanger, Julian E. Barnes, Raymond Zhong and Marc SantoraJeremy Hunt, the British foreign minister, arrived in Washington last week for a whirlwind of meetings facing a critical question: Should Britain risk its relationship with Beijing and agree to the Trump administration’s request to ban Huawei, China’s leading telecommunications producer, from building its next-generation computer and phone networks?Britain is not the only American ally feeling the heat. In Poland, officials are also under pressure from the United States to bar Huawei from building its fifth generation, or 5G, network. Trump officials suggested that future deployments of American troops — including the prospect of a permanent base labeled “Fort Trump” — could hinge on Poland’s decision.And a delegation of American officials showed up last spring in Germany, where most of Europe’s giant fiber-optic lines connect and Huawei wants to build the switches that make the system hum. Their message: Any economic benefit of using cheaper Chinese telecom equipment is outweighed by the security threat to the NATO alliance.Over the past year, the United States has embarked on a stealthy, occasionally threatening, global campaign to prevent Huawei and other Chinese firms from participating in the most dramatic remaking of the plumbing that controls the internet since it sputtered into being, in pieces, 35 years ago.The administration contends that the world is engaged in a new arms race — one that involves technology, rather than conventional weaponry, but poses just as much danger to America’s national security. In an age when the most powerful weapons, short of nuclear arms, are cyber-controlled, whichever country dominates 5G will gain an economic, intelligence and military edge for much of this century.The transition to 5G — already beginning in prototype systems in cities from Dallas to Atlanta — is likely to be more revolutionary than evolutionary. What consumers will notice first is that the network is faster — data should download almost instantly, even over cellphone networks.It is the first network built to serve the sensors, robots, autonomous vehicles and other devices that will continuously feed each other vast amounts of data, allowing factories, construction sites and even whole cities to be run with less moment-to-moment human intervention. It will also enable greater use of virtual reality and artificial intelligence tools.But what is good for consumers is also good for intelligence services and cyberattackers. The 5G system is a physical network of switches and routers. But it is more reliant on layers of complex software that are far more adaptable, and constantly updating, in ways invisible to users — much as an iPhone automatically updates while charging overnight. That means whoever controls the networks controls the information flow — and may be able to change, reroute or copy data without users’ knowledge.In interviews with current and former senior American government officials, intelligence officers and top telecommunications executives, it is clear that the potential of 5G has created a zero-sum calculus in the Trump White House — a conviction that there must be a single winner in this arms race, and the loser must be banished. For months, the White House has been drafting an executive order, expected in the coming weeks, that would effectively ban United States companies from using Chinese-origin equipment in critical telecommunications networks. That goes far beyond the existing rules, which ban such equipment only from government networks.Nervousness about Chinese technology has long existed in the United States, fueled by the fear that the Chinese could insert a “back door” into telecom and computing networks that would allow Chinese security services to intercept military, government and corporate communications. And Chinese cyberintrusions of American companies and government entities have occurred repeatedly, including by hackers suspected of working on behalf of China’s Ministry of State Security.But the concern has taken on more urgency as countries around the world begin deciding which equipment providers will build their 5G networks.American officials say the old process of looking for “back doors” in equipment and software made by Chinese companies is the wrong approach, as is searching for ties between specific executives and the Chinese government. The bigger issue, they argue, is the increasingly authoritarian nature of the Chinese government, the fading line between independent business and the state and new laws that will give Beijing the power to look into, or maybe even take over, networks that companies like Huawei have helped build and maintain.“It’s important to remember that Chinese company relationships with the Chinese government aren’t like private sector company relationships with governments in the West,” said William R. Evanina, the director of America’s National Counterintelligence and Security Center. “China’s 2017 National Intelligence Law requires Chinese companies to support, provide assistance and cooperate in China’s national intelligence work, wherever they operate.”The White House’s focus on Huawei coincides with the Trump administration’s broader crackdown on China, which has involved sweeping tariffs on Chinese goods, investment restrictions and the indictments of several Chinese nationals accused of hacking and cyberespionage. President Trump has accused China of “ripping off our country” and plotting to grow stronger at America’s expense.Mr. Trump’s views, combined with a lack of hard evidence implicating Huawei in any espionage, have prompted some countries to question whether America’s campaign is really about national security or if it is aimed at preventing China from gaining a competitive edge.Administration officials see little distinction in those goals.“President Trump has identified overcoming this economic problem as critical, not simply to right the balance economically, to make China play by the rules everybody else plays by, but to prevent an imbalance in political/military power in the future as well,” John R. Bolton, Mr. Trump’s national security adviser, told The Washington Times on Friday. “The two aspects are very closely tied together in his mind.”The administration is warning allies that the next six months are critical. Countries are beginning to auction off radio spectrum for new, 5G cellphone networks and decide on multibillion-dollar contracts to build the underlying switching systems. This past week, the Federal Communications Commission announced that it had concluded its first high-band 5G spectrum auction.The Chinese government sees this moment as its chance to wire the world — especially European, Asian and African nations that find themselves increasingly beholden to Chinese economic power.“This will be almost more important than electricity,” said Chris Lane, a telecom analyst in Hong Kong for Sanford C. Bernstein. “Everything will be connected, and the central nervous system of these smart cities will be your 5G network.”So far, the fear swirling around Huawei is almost entirely theoretical. Current and former American officials whisper that classified reports implicate the company in possible Chinese espionage but have produced none publicly. Others familiar with the secret case against the company say there is no smoking gun — just a heightened concern about the firm’s rising technological dominance and the new Chinese laws that require Huawei to submit to requests from Beijing.Ren Zhengfei, Huawei’s founder, has denied that his company spied for China. “I still love my country. I support the Communist Party of China. But I will never do anything to harm any other nation,” he said earlier this month.Australia last year banned Huawei and another Chinese manufacturer, ZTE, from supplying 5G equipment. Other nations are wrestling with whether to follow suit and risk inflaming China, which could hamper their access to the growing Chinese market and deprive them of cheaper Huawei products.Government officials in places like Britain note that Huawei has already invested heavily in older-style networks — and has employed Britons to build and run them. And they argue that Huawei isn’t going away — it will run the networks of half the world, or more, and will have to be connected, in some way, to the networks of the United States and its allies.Yet BT Group, the British telecom giant, has plans to rip out part of Huawei’s existing network. The company says that was part of its plans after acquiring a firm that used existing Huawei equipment; American officials say it came after Britain’s intelligence services warned of growing risks. And Vodafone Group, which is based in London, said on Friday that it would temporarily stop buying Huawei equipment for parts of its 5G network.Nations have watched warily as China has retaliated against countries that cross it. In December, Canada arrested a top Huawei executive, Meng Wanzhou, at the request of the United States. Ms. Meng, who is Mr. Ren’s daughter, has been accused of defrauding banks to help Huawei’s business evade sanctions against Iran. Since her arrest, China has detained two Canadian citizens and sentenced to death a third Canadian, who had previously been given 15 years in prison for drug smuggling.“Europe is fascinating because they have to take sides,” said Philippe Le Corre, nonresident senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. “They are in the middle. All these governments, they need to make decisions. Huawei is everywhere.”This month, the Polish government made two high-profile espionage arrests: a former intelligence official, Piotr Durbajlo, and Wang Weijing, an employee of Huawei. The arrests are the strongest evidence so far that links Huawei with spying activities.Mr. Wang, who was quickly fired by Huawei, has been accused of working for Chinese intelligence agencies, said a top former Polish intelligence official. Mr. Wang, according to American diplomats, was the handler of Mr. Durbajlo, who appears to have helped the Chinese penetrate the Polish government’s most secure communications network.A senior American official said the case was a prime example of how the Chinese government plants intelligence operatives inside Huawei’s vast global network. Those operatives potentially have access to overseas communications networks and can conduct espionage that the affected companies are not aware of, the official said.Huawei said Mr. Wang had brought “disrepute” on the company and his actions had nothing to do with its operations.Mr. Wang’s lawyer, Bartlomiej Jankowski, says his client has been caught up in a geopolitical tug of war between the United States and China.American and British officials had already grown concerned about Huawei’s abilities after cybersecurity experts, combing through the company’s source code to look for back doors, determined that Huawei could remotely access and control some networks from the company’s Shenzhen headquarters.On careful examination, the code that Huawei had installed in its network-control software did not appear to be malicious. Nor was it hidden. It appeared to be part of a system to update remote networks and diagnose trouble. But in some circumstances, it could also route traffic around corporate data centers — where firms monitor and control their networks — and its mere existence is now cited as evidence that hackers or Chinese intelligence could use Huawei equipment to penetrate millions of networks.American officials and academics say Chinese telecommunications companies have also temporarily hijacked parts of the internet, rerouting basic traffic from the United States and Canada to China.One academic paper, co-written by Chris C. Demchak, a Naval War College professor, outlined how traffic from Canada meant for South Korea was redirected to China for six months. That 2016 attack has been repeated, according to American officials, and provides opportunity for espionage.Last year, AT&amp;T and Verizon stopped selling Huawei phones in their stores after Huawei begin equipping the devices with its own sets of computer chips — rather than relying on American or European manufacturers. The National Security Agency quietly raised alarms that with Huawei supplying its own parts, the Chinese company would control every major element of its networks. The N.S.A. feared it would no longer be able to rely on American and European providers to warn of any evidence of malware, spying or other covert action.In three decades, Huawei has transformed itself from a small reseller of low-end phone equipment into a global giant with a dominant position in one of the crucial technologies of the new century.Last year, Huawei edged out Apple as the second-biggest provider of cellphones around the world. Richard Yu, who heads the company’s consumer business, said in Beijing several days ago that “even without the U.S. market we will be No. 1 in the world,” by the end of this year or sometime in 2020.The company was founded in 1987 by Mr. Ren, a former People’s Liberation Army engineer who has become one of China’s most successful entrepreneurs.American officials say the company started through imitation, and even theft, of American technology. Cisco Systems sued Huawei in 2003, saying it had illegally copied the American company’s source code. The two companies settled out of court.But Huawei did not just imitate. It opened research centers (including one in California) and built alliances with leading universities around the world. Last year, it generated $100 billion in revenue, twice as much as Cisco and significantly more than IBM. Its ability to deliver well-made equipment at a lower cost than Western firms drove once-dominant players like Motorola and Lucent out of the telecom-equipment industry.While American officials refuse to discuss it, the government snooping was a two-way street. As early as 2010, the N.S.A. secretly broke into Huawei’s headquarters, in an operation, code-named “Shotgiant,” a discovery revealed by Edward J. Snowden, the former N.S.A. contractor now living in exile in Moscow.Documents show that the N.S.A. was looking to prove suspicions that Huawei was secretly controlled by the People’s Liberation Army — and that Mr. Ren never really left the powerful army unit. It never found the evidence, according to former officials. But the Snowden documents also show that the N.S.A. had another goal: to better understand Huawei’s technology and look for potential back doors. This way, when the company sold equipment to American adversaries, the N.S.A. would be able to target those nations’ computer and telephone networks to conduct surveillance and, if necessary, offensive cyberoperations.In other words, the Americans were trying to do to Huawei the exact thing they are now worried Huawei will do to the United States.After an uproar in 2013 about Huawei’s growing dominance in Britain, the country’s powerful Intelligence and Security Committee, a parliamentary body, argued for banning Huawei, partly because of Chinese cyberattacks aimed at the British government. It was overruled, but Britain created a system to require that Huawei make its hardware and source code available to GCHQ, the country’s famous code-breaking agency.In July, Britain’s National Cyber Security Center for the first time said publicly that questions about Huawei’s current practices and the complexity and dynamism of the new 5G networks meant it would be difficult to find vulnerabilities.At roughly the same time, the N.S.A., at a series of classified meetings with telecommunications executives, had to decide whether to let Huawei bid for parts of the American 5G networks. AT&amp;T and Verizon argued there was value in letting Huawei set up a “test bed” in the United States since it would have to reveal the source code for its networking software. Allowing Huawei to bid would also drive the price of building the networks down, they argued.The director of the N.S.A. at the time, Adm. Michael S. Rogers, never approved the move and Huawei was blocked.In July 2018, with these decisions swirling, Britain, the United States and other members of the “Five Eyes” intelligence-sharing alliance met for their annual meeting in Halifax, Nova Scotia, where Chinese telecommunications companies, Huawei and 5G networks were at the top of the agenda. They decided on joint action to try to block the company from building new networks in the West.American officials are trying to make clear with allies around the world that the war with China is not just about trade but a battle to protect the national security of the world’s leading democracies and key NATO members.On Tuesday, the heads of American intelligence agencies will appear before the Senate to deliver their annual threat assessment, and they are expected to cite 5G investments by Chinese telecom companies, including Huawei, as a threat.In Poland, the message has quietly been delivered that countries that use Chinese telecommunications networks would be unsafe for American troops, according to people familiar with the internal discussions.That has gotten Poland’s attention, given that its president, Andrzej Duda, visited the White House in September and presented a plan to build a $2 billion base and training area, which Mr. Duda only half-jokingly called “Fort Trump.”Col. Grzegorz Malecki, now retired, who was the head of the Foreign Intelligence Agency in Poland, said it was understandable that the United States would want to avoid potentially compromising its troops.“And control over the 5G network is such a potentially dangerous tool,” said Mr. Malecki, now board president of the Institute of Security and Strategy. “From Poland’s perspective, securing this troop presence outweighs all other concerns.”Adam Satariano, Joanna Berendt and Katie Benner contributed reporting.

Supported byTech FixIf recent increases are any indication, chances are your next iDevice will cost even more. We analyzed how prices have shot up and offer ways to buy for less.By Brian X. ChenGadgets like Apple’s iPhone have become so powerful and durable that you can wait many years before buying a new one. The bad news is that your next upgrade will probably cost a lot more.Consider that last year, Apple raised prices for most of its products. They included its iPhones, Apple Watch, Mac Mini, MacBook Air and iPad Pro. (Yes, that is nearly the company’s entire gadget lineup.) Apple has said the increases were necessary because the products had become more complex and expensive to make.Timothy D. Cook, Apple’s chief executive, defended the iPhone’s rising prices in an interview with “Good Morning America” in September. He said the iPhone was an all-in-one gadget replacing cameras and music players, among other gizmos. “We found that people want to have the most innovative product available, and with that, it’s not cheap to do that,” he said.That justification did not add up for me. Since the iPhone’s debut in 2007, it had been a multifunctional device that continually incorporated cutting-edge features without significant price increases. The same went for Apple’s watches, computers and tablets: They became more advanced over the years without big price jumps — until now.And there is a question of whether Apple has pushed prices up too high. On Tuesday, the company — while dealing with reports about an embarrassing privacy glitch that let iPhone users eavesdrop on one another’s microphones — reported disappointing financial results. In a letter warning investors before the quarterly earnings report, Apple acknowledged that iPhone sales may have slowed because of factors including higher prices.For a reality check on Apple’s pricing, I spoke to financial experts and pricing strategists. I learned that there is credence to Apple’s arguments: Its products do cost more to produce than in years past. But that didn’t stop me from consulting with Wirecutter, a New York Times company that reviews products and tracks deals, for advice on how we could shave the costs of our next Apple upgrades.Here’s what I found.Last year, Apple’s prices shot up by 7 percent to 60 percent, depending on the product. Perhaps the most notable increase was for the new Mac Mini, which costs about $800, up from $500. (The last Mac Mini debuted in 2014.) Some Apple prices stayed firm or declined. Notably, the newer entry-level iPad is selling for about $330, down from $500 in years past.But in general, prices jumped. That was surprising given that product costs typically fall as technologies mature and parts become widely available, which was what happened with televisions.The more I examined the pricing, though, the more evidence there was that the latest Apple products are more expensive to make. Apple also appears to be under pressure to introduce more complex innovations to compete in the brutal technology market.Take a look at the company’s gross profit margin, or the money it makes from products after the cost to make and sell them is factored in. If Apple’s gross margins are lower today even though prices are higher, that indicates the products cost more to make. And that is indeed the case. Toni Sacconaghi, a financial analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein who has studied Apple for years, estimated that the company’s gross margins for the iPhone were below 40 percent, down from more than 50 percent several years ago. Mr. Sacconaghi said the shrinking margins demonstrated how tough it had become to compete in the technology market. Apple has had to add features like stronger metals, sophisticated cameras, high-resolution displays, advanced chips and faster wireless connectivity while trimming back on some profit given that rival products from the likes of Xiaomi, Huawei and Lenovo have become very capable. If Apple had wanted to keep profit margins consistent with past years, he said, it would have had to raise prices even higher and risk losing sales.“You have to put in more to stay competitive, or you’re going to lose share,” he said.Jared Wiesel, a partner at Revenue Analytics, a pricing and sales consulting firm, said Apple was still in a unique position to introduce broad price increases. Other companies, such as grocery brands, lack the clout to do so because their competitors might undercut them and lure away customers.“They’re in the very enviable position that they can, by and large, take major action across the board without, so far, seeing a major erosion of loyalty as a result,” Mr. Wiesel said.An Apple spokeswoman referred to Mr. Cook’s comments on Tuesday’s earnings call. In response to a question about whether Apple had raised prices too high, Mr. Cook said the prices were not that much more. He noted that the iPhone XS was the same price as last year's iPhone X, and that the XR was priced only slightly higher than the iPhone 8.Discounts for new Apple products are rare. But here are several methods to lower the cost of your next purchase.One simple way to get some cash toward your next purchase is to take your old devices to a trade-in program at a retailer or a wireless store. Apple runs Apple GiveBack, which gives you Apple Store credit in exchange for an old phone, tablet, computer or smart watch. Gazelle, an online reseller, will let you sell smartphones, tablets and Macs in exchange for cash or Amazon store credit. Carriers like AT&amp;T and Verizon Wireless offer trade-in programs. And Best Buy stores also provide store credit for many used devices. The best part about the release of a new Apple product is that last year’s model can be had for cheaper. Apple now sells the iPhone 8, still a very good phone, for about $600, down from its original $700 price. Older-generation Apple Watches and tablets occasionally go on sale during holiday shopping periods such as Black Friday and Cyber Monday, Wirecutter said. In November, the Apple Watch Series 3 dropped to $200 on Amazon, down from the original $330.To scout for deals, you can create alerts for price drops using web tools like Camel Camel Camel. Wirecutter also runs a webpage that regularly highlights deals.Apple product discounts tend to be better when you buy through third parties like Best Buy and Amazon. “The best tip is to shop around before going to the Apple Store,” said Alex Roth, a commerce editor for Wirecutter.Trusted brands like Apple, Best Buy and Amazon offer programs to buy refurbished or used products. Refurbished products typically were returned by a consumer and then restored to excellent condition, and they often include a fresh battery and warranty. Apple’s online store for refurbished products lists last year’s iPad Pro for about $550, down from about $650.Buying used Apple gadgets can often yield more savings, but you will have to be judicious about whom you buy from. Your best bet is to buy from a friend, a relative or a reseller that is a trusted brand. I have had consistently good experiences buying used products from Amazon’s Warehouse program, for example.Of course, you can save $750 on the next $750 iPhone by not buying it at all. The most thrifty thing you can do is to maintain your device and skip upgrading. Plenty of Apple customers have caught on to this approach. The company acknowledged in its recent note to investors that many iPhone customers took advantage of its battery replacement program, which may have contributed to slower sales of replacements.There’s a hidden benefit to giving your devices some tender loving care.“Take good care of the one you have so that when the time comes for an upgrade, you can trade that one in and you’ll get something for it,” Mr. Roth said.Brian X. Chen is the lead consumer technology writer. He reviews products and writes Tech Fix, a column about solving tech-related problems. Before joining The Times in 2011 he reported on Apple and the wireless industry for Wired.  @bxchen 

Supported byBy Conrad De AenlleExchange-traded funds became the next big thing in portfolio management a couple of decades ago by being cheaper and easier to trade than mutual funds.These days, some managers are offering E.T.F.s as tools for specialization at the expense of diversification, carving up the stock market into ever thinner slices for investors eager to find other next big things.E.T.F.s have evolved from covering only broad indexes, such as the S&amp;P 500, to sectors like energy and health care, industries like homebuilding and gold mining, and lately to subsets of industries — niches within niches — often in ultracool areas like robotics, cybersecurity and video gaming that capture investors’ imaginations and then their money.While investment advisers occasionally use thematic funds when managing assets for their clients, they typically encourage small investors to avoid the practice, no matter how enticing it might be to try to find the next Amazon, Netflix or Google before it becomes a technological colossus.“We would prefer that someone build a portfolio around more diversified funds,” said Jason Browne, chief investment strategist of the FundX Investment Group, a firm that manages fund portfolios for high-net-worth individuals. He warned: “If you’re an average investor, you will probably look back and think this is something you were sold and not something thoughtfully invested in that’s aligned with your long-term goals.”Like Mr. Browne, Christopher Cordaro, chief investment officer of RegentAtlantic, a Morristown, N.J., financial-planning firm, said he sees more fund marketing than fund management at work with narrowly focused E.T.F.s.“It sort of reminds me of ‘The Graduate,’ when the guy takes Benjamin aside and says, ‘I’ve got one word: plastics,’” Mr. Cordaro said. Providers of these funds “are looking for things that sound good to people, then they give them an itch they’ll want to scratch.”Sam Masucci, chief executive of the ETF Managers Group, which manages about $3 billion across 12 thematic portfolios, said funds dedicated to such narrow market segments are especially dependent on investor demand and are introduced in areas experiencing a surge in popularity.His company’s thematic funds are a mix of actively managed and passively managed portfolios. In addition to cybersecurity and gaming funds, they cover some highly focused, even obscure, industries, including mobile payments and drone technology. And for anyone worried that all that cutting-edge technology will make human beings too efficient and productive, the company also offers the Alternative Harvest fund, which invests in companies involved in marijuana production.Anyone interested in these areas, despite admonitions like Mr. Browne’s, has several alternatives to choose from.A recent report on thematic E.T.F.s by Todd Rosenbluth, director of E.T.F. and mutual fund research at CFRA Research, highlighted two gaming funds — VanEck Vectors Video Gaming and eSports, and ETFMG Video Game Tech — and two that invest in cybersecurity: ETFMG Prime Cyber Security and First Trust Nasdaq Cybersecurity.The report also mentioned four that cover the burgeoning field of robotics: ROBO Global Robotics and Automation Index, Global X Robotics and Artificial Intelligence, First Trust Nasdaq Artificial Intelligence and Robotics, and iShares Robotics and Artificial Intelligence.The performance of many of them last year illustrates the perils of owning an idea that would seem to have a lot of promise but so far has not delivered on it. The S&amp;P 500 fell 6.2 percent last year, and the Nasdaq Composite Index, a benchmark for technology stocks, lost 3.9 percent. The ETFMG gaming fund lagged both indexes badly, losing 18.8 percent, while the VanEck gaming fund was down 12.6 percent just since its introduction in mid-October.The cybersecurity funds did much better. ETFMG Prime Security rose 6.5 percent in 2018, and the First Trust fund eked out a 1.3 percent gain.As for the robotics portfolios, their returns have been awful. None of the four came close to matching the Nasdaq index. Losses last year ranged between 14 percent and 29 percent.Because interest in these areas tends to come and go, Mr. Browne uses thematic E.T.F.s to carry out short-term asset allocation decisions. Haim Israel, head of thematic investing at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, by contrast, views several technologies covered by the E.T.F.s as long-term opportunities.The business and investment prospects associated with themes like Big Data, artificial intelligence, privacy and cyberthreats, the report said, will be helped by a “techceleration” resulting from the introduction of so-called 5G technology featuring much faster data transmission rates. The rollout of 5G “will bring about the fastest transformation in human history,” Mr. Israel predicted. The reduced time it will take to transmit data will help the spread of all sorts of technologies, like gaming or self-driving cars, he said.Mr. Israel’s analysis and outlook are plausible — for the world as it is today and for various technologies as they have developed so far. As for five years from now, who knows? Change, often radical and unforeseeable, is a hallmark of the sector, making most forecasts speculative at best. That is one of the main complaints that investment advisers have with thematic E.T.F.s.“We’ve been around long enough to see a lot of the ‘next big thing,’ said Leon LaBrecque, chief executive of LJPR Financial Advisors in Troy, Mich. “Remember Blockbuster or Boston Chicken? Anyone remember the first search engine? New tech becomes old tech.”For investors interested in taking a shot with thematic E.T.F.s, advisers suggest using risk capital, and then only small amounts of it.Mr. Masucci views thematic E.T.F.s as superior alternatives to buying individual stocks. These E.T.F.s “are a tax efficient, liquid, transparent way to give that exposure without relying on advisers’ ability to pick stocks,” he said.But Mr. Cordaro pointed to a conundrum that anyone contemplating investing in thematic E.T.F.s faces: “Because they can be riskier, you wouldn’t want them to be too much of your portfolio,” no more than 5 percent, he said. “The paradox is that’s not going to move the needle that much. You’re not going to make much money on it.”If you still want to try to move the needle, he advises doing it with funds that emphasize smaller, younger businesses that are pure plays in a particular niche and that don’t fill their portfolios with established companies that only dabble in fledgling technology.Mr. Rosenbluth noted in his report, for instance, that the VanEck and ETFMG gaming funds both hold the gaming stocks Activision and Electronic Arts, but only the ETFMG fund owns the larger, more diversified tech stocks Apple and Microsoft. By contrast, the ETFMG cybersecurity portfolio is more skewed toward smaller software companies than First Trust Nasdaq Cybersecurity, while the latter holds more in big defense companies like Raytheon than the ETFMG fund does.As for the robotics funds, the two with portfolios published on third-party sites like Morningstar’s, ROBO Global Robotics and Global X Robotics, each own big companies like Nvidia and Intuitive Surgical, and smaller ones like Helix Energy Solutions.In the end, the most effective way to invest in the next big thing may be to avoid trying to do it through thematic E.T.F.s at all.“Why even go for that ride is the question,” Mr. Browne said. When you own a diversified fund, “whatever drives the economy is going to be in your portfolio. It doesn’t rely on your or my predictions of what that’s going to be.”Mr. LaBrecque recommended a similarly broad, simple approach.“We can buy the S&amp;P 500 and get the new FANGs,” a reference to Facebook, Amazon, Netflix and Google, “and the next acronym of choice,” he said. “And we can get the companies that make all the stuff people buy on Amazon, and the cars people drive to the store to buy the food to eat while they watch Netflix. And when the next thing comes along, we can own that, as well.”

Supported byMediatorBy Jim RutenbergUnder Article 6, Paragraph 1 of Saudi Arabia’s Anti-Cyber Crime Law, the following is punishable by up to five years in prison: “Production, preparation, transmission, or storage of material impinging on public order, religious values, public morals, and privacy, through the information network or computers.”Think “First Amendment.” Then invert it.Last week, we learned that the Kingdom had alerted Netflix that it had violated the statute with an episode of its comedy show “Patriot Act,” starring Hasan Minhaj, a comedian and American Muslim. How? Mr. Minhaj dared to question Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, both for the C.I.A.’s conclusion he ordered the murder of the Saudi dissident Jamal Khashoggi and for Saudi war atrocities in Yemen.Maybe the Saudi complaint wasn’t all that shocking. Like any authoritarian monarch worth his bone saw, Prince Mohammed doesn’t brook criticism, which is why he has overseen the Saudis’ increased jailing of journalists, critics and rivals.The shock came with Netflix’s supine compliance. After pulling the episode from its Saudi feed, the streaming service told The Financial Times it was simply responding to “a valid legal request.”Add another 10 paces to America’s retreat from its place at the forefront of free speech and political expression.It was but one episode in one country. And Saudis who were burning to see it could still find it on YouTube.But each small step for dictatorial crackdowns abetted by American leaders — be they in politics or business — is one giant leap for the forces that are now so successfully stanching free expression and dissent across the world.L’affaire Netflix raises a big question: As America’s new media overlords grow at a stunning rate, expanding into every nook and cranny of the globe where governments will let them in, are they compelled to defend universal values like free speech that their home country was founded on?Increasingly, it seems, profit, expansion and perhaps a wee bit of cowardice are trumping the very principles that made the United States entertainment and news industries what they are — and that made a Netflix possible in the first place.I’m not so naïve that I don’t understand that this is the cost of becoming a dominant media player now, when success is measured by how many more hundreds of millions of users a company can attract.“Stock price is measuring expected future earnings and those turn on global user numbers,” said Sam Blatteis, the former public policy lead for Google and YouTube in the Gulf and now chief executive for MENA Catalysts, a Middle East government affairs consulting firm.Growth lies in emerging markets, many of which may be run by less-than-savory characters ruling by less-than-savory means.“Companies have to walk this tightrope between their cosmopolitan values on one side and realizing that going abroad into many emerging markets is a contact sport,” Mr. Blatteis, speaking from Dubai, told me last week. “You have to roll up your sleeves and that can involve adapting and compromise.”That’s why Apple acquiesced to China’s demand that it remove various apps that bypassed the country’s censors as well as the news apps of The New York Times.It’s why Hollywood pulled back from making films critical of China (getting a bounty of Chinese movie financing in return).At the risk of hurting Mark Zuckerberg’s feelings, it’s why Facebook has agreed to demands from countries like Turkey, the United Arab Emirates and Pakistan to restrict access to posts deemed illegal because they criticized those countries’ leaders or founders.And it’s why, after Prince Mohammed said he would end a 35-year ban on movie theaters in the kingdom, entertainment moguls including Ari Emanuel, Robert A. Iger, and Mr. Murdoch feted him last spring at intimate dinners around Los Angeles, despite news of repression in the kingdom and civilian deaths in Yemen.Then came the killing of Mr. Khashoggi, who wrote columns for The Washington Post that were critical of the crown prince. According to United States intelligence, Prince Mohammed had ordered Mr. Khashoggi’s death, which his men carried out with slasher-flick aplomb, reportedly using a bone saw to dismember his body.That wasn’t enough for President Trump, who sowed doubt about the intelligence conclusion while praising Saudi Arabia for “keeping oil prices at reasonable levels.” The message on human rights and the First Amendment: Make me an offer.Mr. Trump didn’t invent realpolitik. But previously, even when American actions contradicted its vision of itself, presidential paeans to democratic norms carried at least symbolic weight.Netflix had an opportunity to send a different message.“Even more because Trump and the White House have been so much putting money over lives, frankly, I’d hoped that this was where American businesses could take a stand,” said The Post’s global opinions editor Karen Attiah, who edited Mr. Khashoggi’s columns. “Netflix really had a chance to stand up for values and for Hasan.”At the very least, she said, Netflix should have never called the Saudis’ legal request “valid,” even if it believed it had to comply to maintain its presence in the country.Netflix wouldn’t answer my question about what made the request “valid.” In a statement to me, its general counsel, David Hyman, said, “Our programs push the boundaries on important social and other issues in many places around the world.” But, he added, “to run a global service” the company has to abide by foreign laws “even when we disagree with them.” That is, a Netflix that compromises with rogue-ish regimes is better for free expression than no Netflix at all.One person outside the production, who was briefed on the deliberations in real time, told me Netflix discussed potential problems the episode would cause in Saudi Arabia before Mr. Minhaj filmed it, and raised the idea of scuttling it. This person would only speak on condition of anonymity because of the sensitive nature of the private discussions. An executive at the company, speaking on condition of anonymity for the same reason, said it only shared potential legal consequences with Mr. Minhaj’s team as due diligence, noting it ultimately went forward with the show and its distribution in Saudi Arabia.Until it didn’t.There have been other times when American businesses put American values above their bottom lines. After Steven Van Zandt, the E Street Band guitarist, led a musicians’ boycott of South Africa to protest apartheid, corporations including Coca-Cola, General Electric and GTE followed suit by withdrawing from the country.It’s true that the entertainment industry did not bathe itself in glory during Hitler’s early years.But throughout the war and afterward, they, along with many other major American corporations, joined the robust national effort to defeat the Nazis and promote American values throughout Europe, which helped the United States win the Cold War.It’s a little hard to imagine such a national effort coming together now.Maybe that’s partly because the major social media and entertainment platforms have such global scale that they’re almost their own borderless governments.“It seems to be a moment in the evolution of the corporation that it starts to become akin to a world actor in its own right,” Nicholas J. Cull, a professor at the University of Southern California’s Annenberg School for Communication and Journalism who has written extensively on the American information effort during the Cold War. When it comes to their home country, he said, “It’s, ‘We’re sympathetic, but we have our own set of interests.’”The media behemoths would be wise to remember that their future growth will rely on having the same liberties that fostered their creation.I’m reminded of a line from the Netflix-BBC One co-production of “Watership Down,” based on Richard Adams’s allegorical novel about a noble herd of rabbits’ pursuit of a peaceful homeland. After their leader Hazel helps another group of rabbits escape a totalitarian warren, he tells them, “You have fought so hard to earn your freedom, but now you must fight to keep it, because the battle for liberty is one which has no end.”Take heed, Netflix.

Supported byBy Chris Stanford(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning,We’re following a possible peace deal in Afghanistan, the reopening of the federal government and the latest news from Venezuela.American and Taliban officials have agreed in principle on a framework for a peace deal, the chief U.S. negotiator confirmed today, the first tangible step toward ending a 17-year war that has cost tens of thousands of lives.The details: The plan centers on a phased withdrawal of American troops in exchange for a Taliban cease-fire. The insurgent group would also pledge not to allow international terrorist groups to use Afghanistan as a hub. What’s next: The Taliban are debating the requirement that the group enter talks with the Afghan government and agree to a lasting cease-fire, two points they have long resisted.Another angle: The idea of a U.S. troop withdrawal worries Afghan women, who fear that their rights will be taken away.Negotiators from the House and Senate have less than three weeks to hash out a plan to secure the southwestern border, after President Trump signed a stopgap funding bill last week to end the partial government shutdown. Mr. Trump said he would shut down the government again or invoke emergency powers to build a wall if Congress doesn’t offer a solution he likes by Feb. 15.What’s next: Lawmakers will now demonstrate whether a divided government can produce results beyond a budget. Speaker Nancy Pelosi and President Trump are also likely to discuss rescheduling the State of the Union address.Perspective: “Tearing down, or refusing to fund, border walls won’t get anyone very far in the broader pursuit of global justice,” an author and editor at The Nation argues in an Op-Ed.Over the past year, the Trump administration has been pressuring allies to prevent Huawei and other Chinese companies from helping to build the next generation of cellular networks.The U.S. has suggested to Poland that future deployments of American troops could hinge on whether the country works with Huawei. In Germany, American officials warned that using Chinese telecoms equipment would pose a security risk to NATO.Why it matters: “In an age when the most powerful weapons, short of nuclear arms, are cyber-controlled, whichever country dominates 5G will gain an economic, intelligence and military edge for much of this century,” our national security correspondents write.What’s next? The U.S. campaign may complicate trade talks with China this week, particularly as Beijing demands the release of a Huawei executive who was arrested in Canada at America’s request.Explainer: Here’s what you need to know about the once-in-a-decade upgrade to wireless systems. President Nicolás Maduro backed down from demanding that all American diplomats leave the country this past weekend, even as the U.S. and other countries continued to press for new elections.Mr. Maduro remains in a standoff with Juan Guaidó, the opposition leader who proclaimed himself the country’s interim leader last week. European nations including Britain, France, Germany, the Netherlands and Spain said they would recognize Mr. Guaidó as interim president if Mr. Maduro didn’t agree within eight days to schedule new elections.Go deeper: Cuba is a longtime ally of Venezuela, but Havana’s role in the current leadership crisis is unclear.In sickle-cell disease, blood cells stuffed with hemoglobin, pictured above, are distorted. The misshapen cells get stuck in blood vessels, causing strokes, organ damage and agonizing pain. It’s an inherited condition that mainly afflicts people of African descent.In a half-dozen clinical trials planned or underway, researchers are testing strategies for correcting the problem at the genetic level. Already, a handful of enrolled patients no longer show signs of the disease.Second dam threat in Brazil: Fears of a dam collapse at an iron mine prompted evacuations in the town of Brumadinho on Sunday, two days after a separate dam break left at least 58 dead and hundreds missing. Residents blamed a lack of accountability in the country’s powerful mining industry.Roger Stone’s defense: The longtime Trump adviser, who was charged last week in the special counsel’s Russia investigation, said on Sunday that the text message exchanges that were cited in his indictment were being misrepresented.The 2020 election: Howard Schultz, the former chief executive of Starbucks and a self-described “lifelong Democrat,” said he was preparing to run for president as an independent.Diversity debate: A top law firm’s class of new partners — 11 men, one woman, all white — underscored how far large firms have to go to elevate women and minorities. (Paul, Weiss, is, in fact, more diverse at the partner level than most of its peers.)Snapshot: Above, the former Sachsenhausen Nazi concentration camp in Oranienburg, Germany, during International Holocaust Remembrance Day on Sunday. The phrase on the gate, “Arbeit macht frei” (Work sets you free), appeared at the entrance of several Nazi camps, including Auschwitz, which was liberated on Jan. 27, 1945. A not-so-live “Rent”: A highly publicized TV version of the musical, which was supposed to be performed live on Sunday, broadcast material shot the previous night after one of its lead actors broke his foot.What we’re scrolling through: This Instagram feed. Debbie Millman, the host of the “Design Matters” podcast, is just back from the trip of a lifetime. Her posts, according to Anna Holland, an editor in London, “aren’t envy-inducing photographs as much as reflective journal entries about facing your fears and learning what you’re capable of.”Cook: For a quick dinner, make a soba noodle salad with edamame, carrots and spinach.Listen: If you watched the Netflix and Hulu documentaries on the Fyre Festival and want to know more (we get it), here’s our Popcast.Watch: The latest movie trailers, including “Beach Bum” (featuring a lot of Matthew McConaughey) and Idris Elba’s directorial debut.See: “Hamlet 360: Thy Father’s Spirit” is a virtual reality presentation created by Google and the Commonwealth Shakespeare Company, in which the viewer is the ghost of Hamlet’s murdered father. Smarter Living: You can use your phone’s settings to silence notifications, but still let really important things through. On an iPhone, go to Settings and to Do Not Disturb, where you can schedule quiet hours but allow exceptions for parents, spouses, etc., or for repeat calls. Android phones vary, but you should find similar options by going to the Settings app, to Sound and to Do Not Disturb.We also have ideas on using built-in storage to make room for the dog, or even your in-laws.Happy Data Privacy Day!Or maybe not so happy. In the years since the celebration was born in Europe and adopted in the U.S. and Canada, digital privacy has become a mainstream concern.As someone who covers personal tech for a living, I’ve lost count of how many times hackers have breached companies’ computer systems and stolen customers’ credit card numbers, or worse. (Thanks, Equifax, Marriott and Facebook.)Digital privacy is no joke. If you do one thing to protect your data today — or this week, or this year — set aside a few hours to make stronger passwords.Make sure every password you use for logging in to a site or an app is unique and complex. Password management apps like 1Password or LastPass make it easy, letting you use one master password to reach a vault of all of your passwords.Trust me, you’ll feel a lot better.That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.— ChrisThank youTo Eleanor Stanford and James K. Williamson for the break from the news, and Brian X. Chen, the lead consumer technology writer at The Times, for today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about Roger Stone and his connection to WikiLeaks.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Salt Lake City’s state (4 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • Runa Sandvik, the senior director of information security at The Times, sends out stealthy phishing emails to the staff to see who falls for them. (Those who do get extra training in spotting fakes.)Chris Stanford is based in London and writes the U.S. version of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles a weekly news quiz. He was previously a producer for the desktop home page and mobile site, helping to present The New York Times’s news report to readers. Before joining The Times in 2013, he was an editor and designer at The Washington Post and other news organizations.  @stanfordc 

Supported byBy David E. Sanger and Julian E. BarnesWASHINGTON — A new American intelligence assessment of global threats has concluded that North Korea is unlikely to give up its nuclear stockpiles and that Iran is not, for now, taking steps necessary to make a bomb, directly contradicting the rationale of two of President Trump’s foreign policy initiatives.Those conclusions are part of an annual “Worldwide Threat Assessment” released on Tuesday that also stressed the growing cyberthreat from Russia and China, which it said were now “more aligned than at any point since the mid-1950s.”The 42-page threat report found that American trade policies and “unilateralism” — central themes of Mr. Trump’s “America First” approach — have strained traditional alliances and prompted foreign partners to seek new relationships.In testimony before the Senate Intelligence Committee linked to the release of the report, the nation’s intelligence chiefs tried to avoid directly questioning administration policies. Yet they detailed a different ranking of the threats facing the United States, starting with cyberattacks and moving on to the endurance of the Islamic State and the capabilities of both North Korea and Iran.Dan Coats, the national intelligence director, told lawmakers that the Islamic State would continue “to stoke violence” in Syria. He was backed up by the written review, which said there were thousands of fighters in Iraq and Syria and a dozen Islamic State networks around the world.Just last month, Mr. Trump said that “we have won against ISIS; we’ve beaten them, and we’ve beaten them badly” in announcing the withdrawal of American troops from Syria.The starkest contradiction drawn by the intelligence chiefs was their assessment of North Korea.Mr. Trump is expected to meet next month with Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader, in a second round of direct negotiations aimed at ridding Pyongyang of its nuclear weapons. After his last meeting, in Singapore, Mr. Trump tweeted that “there is no longer a Nuclear Threat from North Korea.”Mr. Coats described his concerns in opposite terms.He cited “some activity that is inconsistent with full denuclearization,” adding that most of what North Korea has dismantled is reversible. He said the North’s “leaders ultimately view nuclear weapons as critical to regime survival.”Similarly, the threat review declared that “we currently assess North Korea will seek to retain its W.M.D. capability and is unlikely to completely give up its nuclear weapons and production capability.”Mr. Trump has often noted, accurately, that North Korea has suspended missile tests; its last major test was 14 months ago. But on Tuesday, Gina Haspel, the C.I.A. director, said the government in Pyongyang “is committed to developing a long-range nuclear-armed missile that would pose a direct threat to the United States.”Ms. Haspel said it was encouraging that North Korea was communicating with the United States. But under questioning by Senator Kamala Harris, the California Democrat who this month announced her candidacy for president, Ms. Haspel said the diplomatic objective was still to insist that North Korea fully disclose and dismantle its nuclear program.On Iran, Mr. Coats cited Tehran’s continued support of terrorism in Europe and the Middle East, including sponsoring Houthis in Yemen and Shiite militants in Iraq. He also said that he believed that Iranian hard-liners would continue to challenge centrist rivals.But on one of Mr. Trump’s key assertions — that Iran had cheated on the spirit of the 2015 nuclear agreement even if it was temporarily following its terms — Mr. Coats said Tehran continued to comply with the deal even after the president announced in May that the United States would withdraw from it.“We do not believe Iran is currently undertaking activities we judge necessary to produce a nuclear device,” Mr. Coats said.He added, however, that Iranian officials have “publicly threatened to push the boundaries” of the nuclear agreement if it did not see benefits that were promised, including a resumption of oil sales and an end to American sanctions against its financial transactions around the world.Mr. Trump has called the nuclear agreement “defective at its core” and warned that Iran would “be on the cusp of acquiring the world’s most dangerous weapons” if it remained in place. The agreement still stands, largely with support from European capitals.Senator Angus King, the Maine independent who caucuses with Democrats, asked Ms. Haspel point-blank if Iran remained in compliance with the nuclear deal.She said it was, but added that Iranian leaders were considering steps that would “lessen their adherence” to the agreement.“They are making some preparations that would increase their ability to take a step back if they make that decision,” Ms. Haspel said. “So at the moment, technically they are in compliance, but we do see them debating amongst themselves as they’ve failed to realize the economic benefits they hoped for from the deal.”Intelligence officials have long taken stronger positions than Mr. Trump on North Korea’s continuing nuclear activity, the strength of the Islamic State and Russia’s attempts to influence elections. Mr. Trump has often chafed at assessments he finds at variance with his worldview.April F. Doss, a former associate general counsel at the National Security Agency, said it is not surprising for the intelligence community to stake out facts at odds with the administration view, given that the most recent National Intelligence Strategy noted the spy agencies’ responsibility to “speak truth to power.”The intelligence chiefs emphasized “the commitment to analyzing intelligence in a manner tied to objective facts, not domestic partisan agendas,” said Ms. Doss, now a partner at the law firm Saul Ewing Arnstein &amp; Lehr.Mr. Trump famously clashed with the spy agencies over their conclusions that Russia was behind the hacking and influence operations that marred the 2016 presidential election. On Tuesday, the new director of the Cyber Command, Gen. Paul Nakasone, told the Senate committee that the American efforts to blunt Russian interference in the recent midterm elections had been successful, though he gave no details — an effort Mr. Trump has never discussed.Much of the hearing focused on cyberthreats from Russia and particularly from China, which the written report said is now positioned to conduct effective cyberattacks against American infrastructure. It specifically cited Beijing’s ability to cut off natural gas pipelines.Lawmakers discussed the challenges that new technologies being developed by China, Russia and others were posing.“We’re now living in yet another new age, a time characterized by hybrid warfare, weaponized disinformation, all occurring within the context of a world producing more data than mankind has ever seen,” said Senator Richard M. Burr, Republican of North Carolina and the committee’s chairman.Foreign enemies “want to see the United States weakened, if not destroyed,” he said. “They want to see us abandon our friends and our allies. They want to see us lessen our global presence. They want to see us squabble and divide. But their tools are different.”Senator Tom Cotton, Republican of Arkansas, joined Mr. King to highlight dangers posed by Huawei, the Chinese telecommunication giant, which was named in Justice Department indictments on Monday.Mr. King said the company needed to choose between being “a worldwide telecommunications company or an agent of the Chinese government.”Responding, Lt. Gen. Robert P. Ashley Jr., the director of the Defense Intelligence Agency, said no Chinese company could truly choose whether to cooperate or hand over data, given Beijing’s grip.“It is really authoritarian capitalism in the way the government provides oversight and puts very strict rules in place,” General Ashley said. “It is very problematic.”The written threat review also found that Russia’s ability to conduct cyberespionage and influence campaigns remains similar to its efforts in the 2016 American presidential election. But, it said, the bigger concern is that “Moscow is now staging cyberattack assets to allow it to disrupt or damage U.S. civilian and military infrastructure during a crisis.”It specifically noted Russia’s planting of malware in the United States electricity grid. Russia already has the ability to bring the grid down “for at least a few hours,” the review concluded, but is “mapping our critical infrastructure with the long-term goal of being able to cause substantial damage.”Taken together, the report paints a picture of threats vastly different from those asserted by Mr. Trump.Notably missing in the written review was evidence that would support building a wall on the southwestern border; the first mention of Mexico and drug cartels was published nearly halfway through the report — following a range of more pressing threats.Mr. Trump has said the wall is among the most critical security threats facing the United States.

Supported byBooks NewsBy Alexandra AlterLast January, Amélie Wen Zhao posted an ecstatic message on her website: Her debut young adult fantasy novel, “Blood Heir,” had sold to a major children’s publishing house in a three-book deal after a heated auction, and was scheduled to be released in summer 2019.“I AM GOING TO BE A PUBLISHED AUTHOR!!!!!!” she wrote.But a year later, her nascent career has stalled, after some critics, who read early review copies of the novel, denounced the book as blatantly racist.This week, Ms. Zhao announced online that she was pulling the book because of objections that readers had raised over the novel’s depiction of slavery.“It was never my intention to bring harm to any reader of this valued community, particularly those for whom I seek to write and empower,” she wrote. “As such, I have decided to ask my publisher not to publish ‘Blood Heir’ at this time.”Ms. Zhao’s publisher, Delacorte Press, supported her choice to cancel the book’s June release, but did not urge her to. Delacorte still plans to publish the three books she is under contract for, including “Blood Heir” if Ms. Zhao decides she wants to release it at a later time, according to a company spokeswoman.“We respect Amelie’s decision, and look forward to continuing our publishing relationship with her,” Random House Children’s Books, Delacorte’s parent company, said in a statement. Ms. Zhao was unavailable for an interview, according to her publisher.The controversy surrounding “Blood Heir,” and Ms. Zhao’s swift and dramatic decision to withdraw the work just months before publication, has further fueled a skirmish in the world of young adult literature over racial representation, diversity and cultural appropriation.The debate over Ms. Zhao’s novel echoes previous scandals that have erupted in recent years over representation in children’s and young adult books, as publishers have had to delay, cancel and even withdraw and pulp books that became lightning rods for online criticism.In 2016, a picture book titled “A Birthday Cake for George Washington” was withdrawn from stores after critics complained that it glossed over the horrors of slavery. A similar scandal engulfed the 2015 picture book “A Fine Dessert,” which depicted an enslaved mother and daughter hiding in a cupboard and cheerfully licking a bowl of batter clean; the author, Emily Jenkins, apologized and donated her earnings to We Need Diverse Books, a nonprofit that promotes diversity in children’s publishing. In 2017, Laura Moriarty’s dystopian novel, “American Heart,” was savaged, months before its release, by readers who said Ms. Moriarty had peddled a “white savior narrative” in her depiction of a future America where Muslims are placed in internment camps. Harlequin Teen delayed publication of Keira Drake’s fantasy novel, “The Continent,” after readers blasted it as “racist trash,” “retrograde” and “offensive.” Ms. Drake and her publisher, Harlequin Teen, apologized, and Ms. Drake rewrote the book, removing and revising some passages and character descriptions that readers had flagged as racially offensive.Children’s book publishers have grown increasingly cautious when acquiring books that deal with charged subjects such as race, gender, sexuality and disability. Many publishers and authors now hire “sensitivity readers” who vet books and identify harmful stereotypes.“When any author is writing outside their own experience, we want to make sure they’ve done their homework,” David Levithan, vice president and publisher of Scholastic Press, which regularly seeks advice from sensitivity readers, told The Times in 2017.[Read about the growing trend of sensitivity readers.]Edith Campbell, a reference librarian at Indiana State University who blogs about young adult literature, said readers’ ability to instantly weigh in on social media has forced publishers to confront the lack of diversity in the industry, and made it impossible for publishers and authors to ignore complaints when a book promulgates racial or other stereotypes.“This is one of the few ways that publishing has evolved into the 21st century, by having to listen to people’s immediate reaction to what they’re publishing,” she said.Shelley Diaz, a former reviews manager and young adult editor at School Library Journal, said “Blood Heir” and other young adult fantasy novels that deal with slavery often deserve extra scrutiny from readers because the stories are crafted for an impressionable young audience, and praised Ms. Zhao for responding to critics.“Some people in the community have found things that were worthy of critique and weren’t handled in a culturally competent way,” she said. “A lot of authors have been confronted with critiques like these and decided to stand their ground and not change anything, but this was a woman of color who was brave enough to say, ‘I hear you, I hear this critique, and I want to bring a better book out to my readers.’”But some argue that in our hyperreactive online ecosystem, where a tweet or a negative blog post can quickly spark mass calls for a book’s cancellation or a boycott against a publisher, the outrage cycle is often overblown, and can have devastating consequences for young adult authors who are just starting their careers.Ms. Zhao, who was born in Paris and raised in a multicultural community in Beijing, and emigrated from China when she was 18, had dreamed of becoming a writer since she was in elementary school, according to her website. Her mother warned her it was impractical, so she pursued a career in finance while writing on the side.On her website, she described how “Blood Heir,” which takes place in a fictional Cyrilian empire where a group of powerful people called Affinites are feared and enslaved, drew on real-world issues, including “the demonization of the Other and this experience of not belonging.”“As a foreigner in Trump’s America, I’ve been called names and faced unpleasant remarks — and as a non-citizen, I’ve felt like I have no voice — which is why I’ve channeled my anger, my frustration, and my need for action into the most powerful weapon I have: my words,” she wrote on her website.When Ms. Zhao’s agent, Pete Knapp, submitted the manuscript to publishers, editors swooned. Offers poured in from the five biggest publishing houses, and Ms. Zhao sold the book as part of a three-book package to Delacorte Press for more than $500,000, according to the industry website Publishers Marketplace. Delacorte described it in marketing copy as “the hottest fantasy debut of the summer,” calling it an “epic new series about a princess hiding a dark secret and the conman she must trust to clear her name for her father’s murder.”After Delacorte sent out advance reader copies, many of the early reviews were positive — the book has a four and a half star rating on Goodreads. But a backlash began brewing this January, when some readers posted blistering critiques on social media. Some readers criticized what they viewed as racial stereotypes and careless borrowing from other cultural traditions: the novel features a diverse cast — including “a tawny-skinned minority of a Russian-esque princess; a disowned and dishonored Asian-esque assassin; an islander/Caribbean-esque child warrior; a Middle-Eastern-esque soldier,” according to Ms. Zhao’s description of the novel on her website.Others objected to the way in which Ms. Zhao used slavery as a plot device.“How is nobody mentioning the anti-blackness and blatant bigotry in this book?” one reader wrote on Goodreads. “This book is about slavery, a false oppression narrative that equates having legitimately dangerous magical powers that kill people with being an oppressed minority, like a person of color. This whole story is absolutely repulsive.”With what seemed like lightning speed in the publishing world, where publicity and marketing plans are crafted months in advance, Ms. Zhao apologized and said she would withdraw the book, which was due out in early June.In a note to readers, she said she intended to write the novel from her “immediate cultural perspective” and to address the “epidemic of indentured and human trafficking prevalent in many industries across Asia, including in my own home country. The narrative and history of slavery in the United States is not something I can, would or intended to write, but I recognize that I am not writing in merely my own cultural context. I am so sorry for the pain this has caused.”Rather than calming the social media firestorm surrounding her book, Ms. Zhao’s decision set off another fractious debate about whether she was right to listen to her critics, or whether she had been bullied into scrapping her hard work by an online mob of competitive, backstabbing writers.“YA Twitter remains a cancerous stain on social media and in life. Woke white women mostly along with ‘concerned’ minority women cyber bully a debuting Chinese author Amélie Wen Zhao to NOT publish her book,” one observer wrote on Twitter.Others praised her for pulling the book.“I’m so glad to hear that you’re taking the concerns that were raised seriously and trying to do better instead of getting defensive,” a book blogger wrote on Twitter.Follow Alexandra Alter on Twitter: @xanalter.Follow New York Times Books on Facebook and Twitter (@nytimesbooks), sign up for our newsletter or our literary calendar. And listen to us on the Book Review podcast.

Supported byBy Adam Satariano and Joanna BerendtLONDON — The Polish authorities arrested two people, including a Chinese employee of the telecommunications giant Huawei, and charged them with spying for Beijing, officials said on Friday, as the United States and its allies move to restrict the use of Chinese technology because of concerns that it is being used for espionage.The arrest of the Huawei employee is almost certain to escalate tensions between Western countries and China over the company, which the authorities in the United States have accused of acting as an arm of the Chinese government and making equipment designed for spying.In December, the daughter of Huawei’s founder was arrested in Canada at the request of the United States, which said she had committed fraud as part of a scheme to violate American sanctions against companies doing business with Iran. It was unclear whether the arrests in Poland had been requested by the United States. But a senior Western diplomat who was briefed on them said the Justice Department had been working with the Polish government.Europe is increasingly a battleground in the fight over Huawei, the world’s second-largest smartphone maker and a top supplier of networking equipment. The company’s sales in the region have been growing, but many countries there now face pressure to reconsider its presence, particularly as construction begins for the next-generation wireless networks known as 5G. Germany, Britain, the Czech Republic and Norway are among the nations that have recently questioned how deeply Huawei should be involved in developing 5G infrastructure.Many of the countries adopting this stance are allies of the United States. Poland, specifically, is regarded by the State Department as “one of the United States’ strongest partners” in continental Europe. And Andrus Ansip, the European Union’s vice president, said last month that countries in the region should be “worried” about Huawei and other Chinese companies because of the cybersecurity risks they pose.Other countries face the same dilemma. In December, Japan barred Huawei from obtaining government contracts, and Australia and New Zealand have taken steps to block the company from being involved in the building of 5G networks in those countries. And the Czech National Cyber and Information Security Agency recently restated its long-standing warnings about Huawei and ZTE, another Chinese telecommunications company.“Picking sides may be unavoidable,” said Lukasz Olejnik, a research associate at the Center for Technology and Global Affairs at Oxford University, which studies the impact of technology on international relations. “This is a difficult policy conundrum.”Huawei has long denied spying for the Chinese government. On Friday, a spokesman for the company said it had no comment on the arrest in Poland and insisted that it “complies with all applicable laws and regulations in the countries where it operates.”The second person arrested is an employee of the French telecommunications company Orange, which confirmed that its office had been raided and that the man’s belongings had been seized.“We are ready to cooperate with the Internal Security Agency and make any information it needs available,” the Orange spokesman, Wojciech Jabczynski, said.Hu Xijin, the editor in chief of Global Times, a state-run, nationalist newspaper in China, took a swipe at Poland on Twitter on Friday, writing: “Anything in Poland that is worthy of stealing for Huawei? Polish national security department flatters itself.”In another message, he said he had met up with a friend who works at Huawei. “He said Huawei is facing great difficulties communicating with Western public opinion,” Mr. Hu wrote. “I said Huawei has been trying to distance itself from politics, but it has grown too big that politics is coming to its door. Huawei is innocent.”The arrested Huawei employee was identified by the authorities only as Weijing W. He was involved in the company’s sales operations in the country, officials said. According to Polish television, Weijing W. graduated from Beijing Foreign Studies University with a degree in Polish studies and once worked at the Chinese Consulate in Gdansk, Poland. He began working for Huawei in 2011.The Orange employee was identified as Piotr D., a Polish citizen and former agent of Poland’s internal security service.Polish law enforcement officers raided the homes and offices of the two men on Tuesday, officials said. The authorities then had to wait two days to obtain arrest warrants, typical for Poland. Officials did not offer details on the alleged crimes, but said the men would be held for three months while the investigation continued. Both have pleaded not guilty and have refused to answer questions, the Polish state television broadcaster, TVP, reported.The senior Western diplomat briefed on the investigation, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, would not describe the level of cooperation between Poland and the United States. The official also declined to discuss specifics of the case or evidence that may have been shared with the Polish government.But the official said the threat posed by Huawei was a high priority for American officials throughout Europe.Huawei was founded in 1987 by Ren Zhengfei, a former People’s Liberation Army engineer. The company’s equipment is the backbone of mobile networks around the world, and its smartphones are popular in Europe and China. Huawei has grown into China’s largest maker of telecom equipment, generating more than $90 billion in revenue in 2017.The company has been a leading contender to design 5G networks in Europe and other parts of the world, but the security concerns of Western countries have repeatedly hampered its expansion plans. In a 2012 report, American lawmakers said Huawei and ZTE were effectively arms of the Chinese government whose equipment was being used for espionage. Security firms have reported finding software installed on Chinese-made phones that sends users’ personal data to China.For many years, the United States, where large mobile carriers such as AT&amp;T have avoided using Huawei equipment in their networks, has presented the biggest obstacles to the company.Last year, United States intelligence agencies told a Senate panel that Americans should not use Chinese telecom products, and some major American retailers have stopped selling them. The Federal Communications Commission is also considering whether to prohibit American telecom businesses from using equipment from any company deemed a national security risk, a move aimed primarily at Huawei and ZTE that would effectively shut them out of creating 5G mobile networks.Huawei has focused on Europe instead, opening several research and development hubs in the region. More than a quarter of its 2017 revenue came from Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Only the Chinese market is more important to the company.Telecommunication companies in Europe have strong relationships with Huawei. Deutsche Telekom said in December that it had begun testing a 5G network in Poland using Huawei equipment. Mr. Jabczynski, the Orange spokesman, said Huawei was the only company in Poland ready to provide equipment that met criteria set by state regulations.Huawei also has around a quarter of the market for smartphones in Poland, according to the technology research firm Canalys. That makes it the country’s second-largest phone seller after Samsung.But the challenges facing Huawei in Europe are mounting.British officials raised alarms about the company’s products last year. The Czech Republic’s cybersecurity watchdog has warned against using Huawei and ZTE products. And just this week, Tor Mikkel Wara, Norway’s justice minister, told Reuters that “we share the same concerns as the United States and Britain, and that is espionage on private and state actors in Norway.”In Poland, at least one of the country’s main mobile carriers has been edging away from the company. The carrier, Play, has long relied on the company as an equipment supplier. And China Development Bank, a state-backed lender, has helped finance Play’s buying of Huawei equipment, according to the website of Lasanoz Finance, an advisory firm that says it worked on the deal. When Play listed its shares on the Warsaw stock exchange in 2017, it said Huawei had provided a “significant portion” of the equipment on its network.But last July, as concerns about Chinese hardware grew, Play announced that it had chosen Ericsson as an additional supplier for certain components.The arrests in Poland promised to generate more concerns about the company, said David Balson, a former official in the British intelligence agency GCHQ who is now the director of intelligence at Ripjar, a threat detection company in London.“There is no good outcome whether it’s true or not true,” Mr. Balson said. “There is no good way of spinning it.”Poland and other countries that crack down on Huawei risk retaliation from China. Shortly after the Canadian authorities arrested Meng Wanzhou, the daughter of Mr. Ren, the Huawei founder, China detained two Canadian citizens last month and accused them of undermining China’s national security. China has since detained other Canadians.Ms. Meng has been freed on bail in Vancouver, British Columbia, pending a decision on whether she should be extradited to the United States. This week, the public face of Huawei in Canada, Scott Bradley, left the company.“This will definitely increase tension in Europe,” said Christian Schmidkonz, a professor of Asian-Pacific business studies at the Munich Business School.An earlier version of this article misstated David Balson’s title at Ripjar. He is the company’s director of intelligence, not its chief executive.Follow Adam Satariano and Joanna Berendt on Twitter: @satariano and @JoannaBerendt.Adam Satariano reported from London, and Joanna Berendt from Warsaw. Reporting was contributed by Raymond Zhong from Beijing, Marc Santora from Warsaw, Kate Conger from San Francisco, and Edward Wong and Julian E. Barnes from Washington.

Supported byGood Monday morning. Want this by email? Sign up here.The next generation of computer and phone networks, known as 5G, is expected to connect cities around the world and fuel a future run on robots, autonomous vehicles, artificial intelligence and other technologies.But it may also rely on an infrastructure vulnerable to hackers and spies, one that the U.S. wants to stop China from building.The Trump administration has conducted a campaign to pressure allies such as Britain, Poland and Germany to banish Chinese companies, especially the telecommunications giant Huawei, from participating in the 5G buildup, according to the NYT:The administration contends that the world is engaged in a new arms race — one that involves technology, rather than conventional weaponry, but poses just as much danger to America’s national security. In an age when the most powerful weapons, short of nuclear arms, are cyber-controlled, whichever country dominates 5G will gain an economic, intelligence and military edge for much of this century.What’s next? President Trump is expected to issue an executive order prohibiting American companies from incorporating equipment originating from China in critical telecommunications networks, extending current rules that apply only to government entities. His administration, which has also waged a trade war with China, says that it is motivated by concern for national security, not just by competitive defensiveness. China’s economic czar, Liu He, will meet with the American trade representative, Robert Lighthizer, in Washington on Wednesday for two days of trade talks, which is likely to cover issues of cyberprotection and the proliferation of state-owned companies.What do officials think? Beijing’s ambassador to the E.U. threatened “serious consequences” if Huawei and other Chinese companies were excluded from 5G projects. In Canada, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau fired the country’s ambassador to China after he said that a senior Huawei executive had “strong arguments” to fight extradition to the U.S.And businesses? Tech manufacturers are diversifying outside China as trade tensions fester and the country’s economy slows. Foxconn and Pegatron, two Taiwanese companies that assemble iPhones, are expanding production capacity in India and Vietnam. American industrial companies with exposure to China have said that their sales there are weakening. But Apple is unlikely to bring production closer to the U.S., where manufacturers struggle to “match China’s combination of scale, skills, infrastructure and cost,” according to the NYT.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin and Stephen Grocer in New York, and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________The law firm Paul, Weiss is more diverse at its top ranks than most of its peers. But after the announcement of its new partner class, people across the industry began to comment that all of the faces were white, and that only one was a woman’s, the NYT’s Noam Scheiber and John Eligon write.Paul, Weiss has said that it regretted the “gender and racial imbalance” of its 2019 class. But the episode underscores how big law firms are still falling short when it comes to elevating women and people of color.Mr. Scheiber and Mr. Eligon interviewed more than 20 women and people of color who described obstacles to achieving diversity at Paul, Weiss. Many said that opportunities to be groomed for partner were harder to come by for women and minorities.“I fear that African-American partners in big law are becoming an endangered species,” said Theodore Wells, a black partner at Paul, Weiss and one of the country’s most prominent litigators.The former chief executive of Starbucks told Andrew yesterday that he was preparing to run for president in 2020 as an independent.Denouncing the “broken political system,” Mr. Schultz said he had already begun the groundwork to get on the ballot in all 50 states.Long-shot bid: Despite his considerable wealth, Mr. Schultz would face a difficult road. Few independent candidates have mounted significant challenges for the White House.Political jabs: In an interview with “60 Minutes,” Mr. Schultz said Donald Trump was “not qualified to be the president” and that lawmakers from both parties were engaged in “revenge politics.”Swift response: The announcement was condemned by top Democratic operatives, who said they were worried that Mr. Schultz would split votes in a general election.Logan Green, the chief executive of Lyft, is known to be reserved, usually letting his second-in-command speak for their ride-sharing service. But now, he’s in a race with Uber to take the companies public, write the NYT’s Mike Isaac and Kate Conger.That means Mr. Green may have to give up some up his reserve and step into a more public role.The back story: Both Lyft and Uber have filed regulatory papers to list their shares on the stock market in the coming months. The offerings are likely to create a bonanza in Silicon Valley.Why it matters: Lyft, which was last privately valued at $15.1 billion, is tiny compared with its rival and could be overshadowed if Uber debuts first. Uber could go public at a $120 billion valuation.Stocks sank at the end of last year on fears of an imminent recession, but those concerns have largely abated, with global markets now rallying at the fastest pace in months. But investors are still cautious ahead of a busy week.The next few days bring an onslaught of quarterly earnings reports from the likes of Amazon, Apple, Facebook, Microsoft and Tesla — many of which are considered to be representative of the broader economy. The Federal Reserve is also holding policy meetings this week, which come after central banks in Europe and Japan sounded cautious notes. And on Friday, the monthly U.S. jobs report will be released.The world economy “is not in crisis,” writes Neil Irwin. But, he adds:What the last few months have made clear is that the forces that have held back the global economy for the last 11 years are not temporary, and have not gone away. And that, in turn, makes the world uncommonly vulnerable to a bout of bad luck or bad policy.The work force is still aging. Productivity growth remains weak, as is consumer demand. Low interest rates could constrain central bankers trying to engineer an escape from a downturn. And a “nasty feedback loop” could result in more political dysfunction, leading to risks of economic disruption like the type posed by the recent government shutdown.Speaking of which: After a 35-day stalemate, the government is open again, much to the chagrin of some of President Trump’s conservative supporters. The 116th Congress will consider Democratic wage proposals in the house and a Middle East policy bill in the Senate. Lawmakers may also consider whether to ban future shutdowns entirely. Hundreds of thousands of federal employees heading back to work should receive back pay by the end of the week.Yi Huiman, the chairman of the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, will take over from Liu Shiyu as the party secretary and chairman of the China Securities Regulatory Commission. (Reuters)Lance Milken, son of Michael Milken, has left the private equity group Apollo Global Managemen to set up a family office. (FT)Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum producer outside China, said Jean-Pierre Thomas had resigned as its chairman and director as part of a deal with the U.S. government to lift sanctions on the company and on other Russian firms linked to the oligarch Oleg Deripaska. (Reuters)Deals• The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, a federally chartered body, says a $1.7 billion funding gap should sink the efforts of the Sears chairman, Edward Lampert, to buy out the retail chain. The move makes the corporation the latest and most influential creditor to oppose the sale. (WSJ)• The chemical companies Versum Materials and Entegris are in advanced talks to combine into a single entity that makes products used in the semiconductor manufacturing process. (WSJ)• The engineering group Rolls-Royce is leading a consortium of companies that is said to have asked the British government for more than $260 million to build small nuclear reactors. (FT)• Saudi Aramco wants to increase its foothold in Asia’s oil industry by buying up to 19.9 percent of the South Korean refiner Hyundai Oilbank. (Reuters)• The Italian energy company Eni and its Austrian peer OMV will pay $5.8 billion for a stake in the Abu Dhabi National Oil Company’s refining business. (Reuters)Tech• Kik Interactive, a Canadian social-media start-up that sold $100 million in a digital token it called “kin,” plans to fight the S.E.C. over the agency’s regulation of cryptocurrencies. (WSJ)• All aboard the driverless train: American rail-freight operators are turning to automation to make railroads safer and more productive. (WSJ)• The struggles of bike-sharing start-ups lay bare the flaws of VC2C, or venture capital to consumer, a common tech investment strategy in China. In VC2C, companies raise funds, use them to subsidize consumers, and ramp up prices later. (FT)• Retailers have used robots to handle inventory in warehouses. Now, they’re testing whether robots can figure out when store shelves need to be restocked. (WSJ)Politics and policy• A sweeping tax code overhaul and the lingering effects of a government shutdown could squeeze taxpayers’ refund checks, and delay them, too. (NYT)• Senator Elizabeth Warren is trying to stand out in an increasingly crowded field of presidential candidates by focusing on policy minutiae. But she risks being seen as out-of-touch, too intellectual and offbeat. (NYT)• With less than nine weeks to go until Brexit, British businesses are setting up emergency teams to cope with possible upheaval as they press politicians to agree on an orderly exit plan from the E.U. (Reuters)Best of the rest• Male managers said that they were nervous about mentoring female colleagues in the #MeToo era. (NYT)• The Securities and Exchange Commission is scrutinizing whether Nissan accurately reported executive pay. (NYT)• Signs that the government may move to privatize the mortgage-finance giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have sent shares soaring. (WSJ)• The Man Group hedge fund cut ties with the Booker Prize, saying it would dedicate donations to improving diversity in financial services instead. (FT)• U.S. manufacturers are taking a hit as Chinese demand for American goods weakens. (WSJ)• Workplace confidentiality rules in New Jersey are being challenged in court. (WSJ)• Qantas Airways customers are requesting exercise bikes and virtual reality devices to pass the time on 20-hour flights from Sydney to London. (Reuters)• Vale, the world’s largest iron ore miner, suspended dividends, buybacks and bonuses after a dam disaster in Brazil. (Reuters)• The two chief executives of Standard Life Aberdeen, Britain’s largest listed fund manager, made a case for joint leadership, a model unpopular with many investors and governance specialists. (FT)• The British supermarket chain Tesco is planning to cut thousands of jobs with the closing of meat, fish and delicatessen counters. (Guardian)• The U.S. Treasury Department is set to borrow $1 trillion for a second year to finance the deficit. (Bloomberg)• The English soccer club Arsenal announced plans to open several themed restaurants in China as part of a marketing push to reach fans there. (FT)• The European Commission is preparing to put Saudi Arabia on a list of countries that have failed to fight money laundering and terrorist financing. (FT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you on Tuesday.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.

Supported byGood Thursday morning. Want this by email? Sign up here.Trade talks between midlevel American and Chinese officials, extended from a planned two days to three, ended yesterday in Beijing after negotiators made progress but released few details.What happened: According to U.S. officials, negotiators discussed intellectual property protections, so-called forced tech transfer and China’s promise to buy “substantial” amounts of American agricultural, energy and manufacturing products. China’s commerce ministry spoke of “extensive, in-depth and meticulous exchanges.” Wang Qishan, China’s vice president, said today that the two countries “must adapt to the new reality, keep looking for and expanding our common interests, deepening and promoting practical cooperation.”What’s next: No date or location is set for the next round of talks. Higher-level discussions could occur in Davos, Switzerland, if President Trump attends the World Economic Forum meeting there, starting Jan. 22. But he may cancel if the partial government shutdown is not resolved by then. China’s economic czar is expected to visit Washington sometime after that. The Trump administration has set a March 2 deadline to wrap up negotiations, after which it says it could raise tariffs.What’s at stake: If China and the U.S. let tensions escalate and investors pull back, “you’re looking at enough of a tightening in financial conditions to say that a global recession is a real risk,” Peter Hooper, a former Federal Reserve official and Deutsche Bank’s chief economist, told Bloomberg.President Trump wants to calm volatile financial markets. And China’s leader, Xi Jinping, needs to perk up a slowing economy. A measure of factory prices in China last month showed the slowest increase since late 2016. Former Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers told Bloomberg Television yesterday that there is “pretty clear evidence that things have slowed down a fair amount in China.”“There are a lot of grounds for concern,” he added.What else: • Auto importers in the Chinese port city of Tianjin are rushing to get American-made cars through customs, taking advantage of a temporary cut in the 40 percent tariff that Beijing imposed on them last July.• Amid suspicion from the F.B.I. and American universities, China is going quiet about its “Thousand Talents Program,” which has attracted thousands of scientists and experts to the country since 2008.• The Hang Seng stock index in Hong Kong recorded its best day in more than a month yesterday and closed on its fifth straight rally today. U.S. equities also rose, though not as much as in recent days.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin and Stephen Grocer in New York, and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________Welcome to Day 20 of the shutdown, which could become the longest in history on Saturday. Yesterday, President Trump stormed out of a meeting with congressional leaders, throwing what Democrats described as a “temper tantrum” over his demand to fund a border wall, a key sticking point in talks to reopen the government. On Twitter, he called the session “a total waste of time.” The NYT writes:The contentious, brief and futile session underscored an impasse that is looking each day like an insurmountable gulf between the two sides.Today, President Trump will visit the border in McAllen, Tex. Yesterday, he reiterated a threat to invoke emergency powers to fund his wall without congressional approval. That, writes Charlie Savage in the NYT, “would be an extraordinary violation of constitutional norms — and establish a precedent for presidents who fail to win approval for funding a policy goal.”Some consequences of the stalemate:• In Washington, one of the richest areas in the country, it’s affecting retailers, tourist centers, salons, garbage bins and more.• Nationwide, restaurants struggling with a severe worker shortage said they will continue hiring even though they can no longer check recruits’ immigration status online.• Coast Guard employees received a five-page tip sheet suggesting that they could stay afloat without their paychecks through garage sales, babysitting, dog-walking, serving as “mystery shoppers” or, as a last resort, declaring bankruptcy.• This was expected to be a banner year for I.P.O.s. But with work halted at regulators, it could be only the fourth year since 1995 when no major company goes public in January. Other deals, including CVS’s purchase of Aetna, could also be delayed.Two Federal Reserve officials said yesterday that the central bank should assess economic conditions before it considers raising rates again. And they did so as the Fed released the minutes of its December meeting, showing that it reached the same conclusion.The takeaway: Central bank officials are now not likely to raise the benchmark interest rate at their January meeting nor at one in mid-March, writes the NYT’s Binyamin Appelbaum. But they still expect strong enough economic growth to justify increases this year.The reaction: Jerome Powell, the Fed chairman, was criticized for not saying more to soothe investors in December. “He could have handled that differently, and better,” one economist said. The dollar fell to a three-month low against the euro after the meeting minutes were released.The next step: The Fed is considering options to keep interest rates in its target range. One approach would be to slow the decline of bank reserves in the system.Theresa May, Britain’s prime minister, is getting backed into a corner over Brexit — and she knows it.Her plans for how Britain’s departure from the European Union will play out are strongly expected to be rejected by Parliament in a vote next week — two and a half years after Britons voted to leave the bloc in a referendum, and a month after this vote was first scheduled.Yesterday, lawmakers moved to block Mrs. May from stalling further. They have also passed a measure aimed at making it harder for the government to exit the E.U. without a deal.The withdrawal is scheduled for March 29. Many are concerned that, without an agreement with Brussels in place, economic chaos could ensue. Japan’s prime minister, Shinzo Abe, meets with Mrs. May today, and automakers such as Honda, Nissan and Toyota, which manufacture in Britain for export into continental Europe, are pushing him to press the case against a no-deal Brexit.Jeremy Corbyn, the leader of the opposition Labour Party, pushed for fresh elections if Parliament turns down Mrs. May’s plan. The British public is still deeply conflicted over the E.U., as shown in these charts from Bloomberg.President Moon Jae-in of South Korea has embraced a pro-labor program of higher wages and taxes, but the early results have been discouraging, writes the NYT’s Michael Schuman.Growth has slowed, unemployment has risen and small-business owners are complaining. The troubles suggest South Korea’s limits in solving economic problems, especially without addressing underlying structural issues. Rapid changes like Mr. Moon’s can also have unintended consequences. The biggest is the strain on small businesses, which are often unable to pass on higher costs to their customers.U.S.-North Korea talks:  A second summit meeting between the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, and President Trump to negotiate the terms of denuclearizing the North is “close,” Mr. Moon said today after Mr. Kim’s visit to China this week. He added that North Korea should take more concrete steps to secure U.S. concessions.Fiat Chrysler Automobiles will pay nearly $650 million to settle lawsuits over illegal software that allowed diesel vehicles to thwart emissions tests and release higher levels of pollutants, according to the NYT.The settlement, which is expected to be announced today, does not include an admission of guilt by the company or a declaration of wrongdoing by the Environmental Protection Agency. Earlier, the agency found that Fiat used technology that could turn off pollution controls under certain driving conditions.The Justice Department sued Fiat over the issue in 2017. The company will recall 104,000 diesel-powered Ram 1500 trucks and Jeep Grand Cherokee sport utility vehicles to install new software.Other auto news: • Tesla’s chief, Elon Musk, wrote on Twitter yesterday that it will stop selling the cheapest versions of its Model S sedan and Model X sport utility vehicle from Monday, and suggested that the upcoming Roadster sports car might be able to levitate.• Rolls-Royce had record sales last year, as wealthy buyers spent some of their gains from the Trump administration’s tax cuts.• Toyota is recalling 1.7 million vehicles in North America, 1.3 million in the U.S., to replace potentially lethal Takata front passenger airbag inflaters.• The Pixar co-founder John Lasseter, who resigned from Disney in June after complaints about unwanted touching, will build an animation production company affiliated with Paramount. (NYT)• Larry Fink, chief executive of the asset manager BlackRock, promoted Mark Wiedman to a new international role that positions him as a likely heir. (FT)• Greg Palm is retiring as Goldman Sachs’s co-general counsel after more than 20 years there. (Bloomberg)• Michael Bright, a top official at the government-owned mortgage guarantor Ginnie Mae, is said to be stepping down to join a trade group. (Bloomberg)• Gordon Brown, the former British prime minister, will advise the Partners Group, a private equity firm in Switzerland, on so-called impact investments. (WSJ)Deals• Edward Lampert, the hedge fund founder and chairman of Sears, has submitted a revised bid of roughly $5 billion in an effort to save the retailer from liquidation. (CNBC)Tech• Check out A.I. assistants, 5G wireless and other trends in a visual tour of the CES electronics trade show. (NYT)• Also at CES, a battle between two vegan burger start-ups. (FT)• Liverpool John Lennon Airport is testing anti-drone equipment after shutdowns at Heathrow and Gatwick. (FT)• Oracle has paid more than $200 million for naming rights to the San Francisco Giants’ stadium. (Bloomberg)• China’s top media regulator omitted Tencent from its list of approved video game titles. (FT)Politics and policy • Rod Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general, is expected to leave the Justice Department once an attorney general is confirmed. (NYT)• House Democrats have summoned Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin to explain his plan to end sanctions on companies controlled by Oleg Deripaska, a Kremlin ally. (NYT)• Prime Minister Edouard Philippe of France promised to forge ahead with an economic overhaul, despite “yellow jackets” protests. (FT)• The billionaire environmentalist Tom Steyer said he would not run for president in 2020, but would spend at least $40 million this year to promote impeaching President Trump. (WSJ)Best of the rest • Ford said today that it would cut thousands of jobs, exit unprofitable markets and discontinue loss-making vehicle lines as part of a turnaround effort in Europe. (Reuters)• The U.S. food company Mondelez sued its insurance company for refusing to pay a $100 million claim for damage caused by a cyber attack, the first legal dispute of this kind on that scale. (FT)• The Chrysler Building in New York is for sale. The current owners are an Abu Dhabi government fund and Tishman Speyer, a local developer. (WSJ)• Trend-following algorithms, an increasingly important market force, have turned bearish. (WSJ)• MacKenzie Bezos and the Amazon founder Jeff Bezos are divorcing. The split could make her the richest woman in the world, surpassing Francoise Bettencourt Meyers, from the family that founded L’Oreal cosmetics. (Bloomberg)• Ice Cube, the rapper, actor and entrepreneur, wants Viacom’s backing to bid for Fox’s 22 regional sports networks. (Fox)• Why do so many of Eastern Europe’s central bankers face criminal investigations? (Bloomberg)• Avocado demand and prices appear to be in retreat. (WSJ)• Saudi Aramco, the world’s largest oil producer, is likely to issue its first international bond to help finance its potentially $70 billion purchase of the petrochemical giant Sabic. That means disclosing accounts and operational details. (Bloomberg)• An Australian government review recommended closing underperforming funds in the country’s $2 trillion pension system, and letting new employees choose among top performers. (Bloomberg)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you on Friday.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.

