Supported by“Even the smallest country, on a very low budget, can have an offensive capability.”ROBERT JOHNSTON, founder of the cybersecurity firm Adlumin and a key investigator on Russia’s 2016 hacking of the Democratic National Committee, on the proliferation of privatized spies for digital warfare.

Supported byWheelsBy Jim MotavalliGoing back at least a decade, cars have been targeted by hackers, some who ended up working with the industry, others acting maliciously. But vehicles now carry far more electronic equipment, and autonomous driving, relying on sensors, cameras and radar, is on the horizon, with all kinds of ripe new targets.Concern that cars could be seriously hacked — by criminals, terrorists or even rogue governments — has prompted a new round of security efforts on the part of the auto industry.As far back as 2010, a disgruntled former employee at Texas Auto Center in Austin used a co-worker’s account to log into company software used for car repossession. He disabled over 100 cars, and owners who were up to date on their payments suddenly found their vehicles honking furiously, and unable to start.In 2015, a veteran hacker named Samy Kamkar built a device for under $100 that he said could find, unlock and remotely start any General Motors car equipped with the OnStar communications system. Luckily, Mr. Kamkar was acting as a “white hat,” and not selling his OwnStar device to unscrupulous hackers.“I worked with G.M. to resolve that issue,” he said, and that particular vulnerability is gone. “Cars are getting more secure, but it’s a long cycle to get the necessary new software and hardware installed.”Dan Flores, a G.M. cybersecurity and safety spokesman, confirmed the collaboration with Mr. Kamkar. “We recognize the importance of the work that researchers, like Samy, do to help advance the work in this area,” he said in an email.Securing cars is a big challenge, which is why some companies that traditionally prefer to go it alone have teamed up to share best practices.Digital threats to self-driving cars, according to a 2018 University of Michigan report, “include hackers who would try to take control over or shut down a vehicle, criminals who could try to ransom a vehicle or its passengers and thieves who would direct a self-driving car to relocate itself to the local chop-shop.”The average car has over 150 million lines of computer code, and some have even more than a Boeing 787, according to a 2018 KPMG report. That complexity, the report said, “creates a real risk of cyberattack — a risk we fear many companies in the automotive industry may be underestimating.”That view is widespread. “From my perspective, automakers were a little surprised and caught off guard by this threat,” said Doug Newcomb, a senior industry analyst at Wards Intelligence. “They added all this connectivity, but got ahead of themselves and don’t always think of the vulnerabilities that exist. It’s an ongoing issue, not a fix-it-and-forget-it thing.”Failing to protect consumers can be costly, said Steve Tengler, a principal at the consulting company Kugler Maag Cie who has worked at Ford, Nissan and G.M., and was a senior director of connected vehicle cybersecurity at Honeywell.Automakers are legally bound to provide state-of-the-art protection for their cars, Mr. Tengler said. “Legal precedents show that it’s not enough to provide a product that is kind of safe,” he said. “Companies don’t have to put themselves out of business to provide the safest technology, but they do have to work within their commercial ability.”Mr. Tengler said the industry was a frequent target. “Every automaker has been hacked — every one of them,” he said. “Attacks aren’t a matter of if, but when and how.”Once a car is out of warranty, automakers are used to cutting or at least loosening their ties. But hacking issues mean that protection will most likely require factory-to-junkyard monitoring.In 2015, Fiat Chrysler recalled 1.4 million cars and trucks after Chris Valasek and Charlie Miller demonstrated, in a Wired magazine article, that they could remotely control a Jeep Cherokee’s brakes, radio, wipers and other functions by gaining access through its UConnect infotainment system.The company declined to comment on any subsequent security changes.Dr. André Weimerskirch, vice president for cybersecurity and functional safety at Lear Corporation, said that automakers had made “huge improvements” in recent years, and that joint efforts involving the industry, academia and standards organizations had also led to gains.Most car hackers have been wearing those white hats, with no criminal intent, but imagining what could happen led to the 2015 formation of the Automotive Information Sharing and Analysis Center, known as Auto-ISAC. Most of the world’s automakers are members.Faye Francy, the center’s executive director, described the Jeep episode as “a good wake-up call for the industry.”“The hackers are smart guys, very educated,” she said. “It’s not simple to do what they did. We’re fortunate that there hasn’t been another breach, but it’s not impossible.”Not impossible, but still difficult. Ron Plesco, a principal at KPMG Cyber Security Services, agrees that hacking into a car’s driver controls requires “a lot of knowledge and effort.”“It’s not as easy as Hollywood claims it is,” he said.That’s one reason we haven’t seen more major attacks. But Mr. Plesco argues that today there isn’t much incentive for thieves, since the identity information stored onboard vehicles is fairly limited.“But,” he added, “that’s about to change as we do more purchasing through the dashboard of the car. The automobile is becoming another computer that can be hacked.”New infotainment and autonomous features are important selling points, but because most consumers assume their cars are safe, automakers tend to keep cybersecurity news in the background. Much is happening behind the curtain, however. Some private security firms say they are signing on with major automakers to provide expert protection.“There are multiple ways for hackers to get in, and it’s the job of the whole industry to defend against it,” said Dan Sahar, a vice president at Upstream Security in Israel. “Just one hack can cost a manufacturer tens of millions of dollars, and that doesn’t include the brand damage. And the threat is getting more serious.”According to Mr. Sahar, “2018 saw more than 60 documented automotive-related cybersecurity incidents, a sixfold increase in just four years.”Upstream is working with “a handful” of manufacturers, Mr. Sahar said. “Automakers are focused on cybersecurity, but few say they can do it on their own,” he said.A 2019 Upstream report extrapolates a cost topping $1.1 billion for a breach that requires a large recall. The opportunity will certainly be there for criminal hackers. Juniper Research of Britain estimated in a 2018 report that by 2023 some 775 million cars would be connected to the web in some way (up from 330 million in 2018).Mr. Tengler, of Kugler Maag Cie, said it was easy to picture the danger that hackers posed to autonomous vehicles — potentially redirecting them as part of a theft. But the Jeep hack proved “it doesn’t matter if someone is driving,” he said. “If they can take control of the car, the vulnerable technology is already there.”Thieves have stolen cars by using fairly simple electronic technology, some of it freely available. A device that amplifies the signals from a car’s remote can be used to unlock the target vehicle’s doors. Mr. Kamkar said he had built such devices from off-the-shelf components for approximately $50.“It’s a lot simpler than people think,” he said.Other devices include a radio transmitter that cycles through huge numbers of possible combinations until they “crack” the target car’s key fob. In 2006, that was reportedly how the soccer star David Beckham’s armor-plated BMW X5 was stolen in Madrid. A second X5 belonging to Mr. Beckham was also stolen.“Car thieves used to have crowbars; now they use laptops,” said Mr. Plesco at KPMG.Jono Anderson, also a principal at KPMG, said the auto industry needed to learn from aerospace.“They’re very familiar with this kind of security,” Mr. Anderson said, “but it’s new to the auto industry. Maybe it’s possible to hack the entertainment system in a plane and get free movies, but it’s virtually impossible to hack the actual communications.”

Supported byBy Zolan Kanno-YoungsWASHINGTON — Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, said on Monday that cyberthreats against the United States were a national security crisis that she described as her top priority — not the situation for which President Trump last month declared a national emergency.“On top of my list of threats, that many of you can guess, the word ‘cyber’ is circled, highlighted and underlined,” Ms. Nielsen said in a speech outlining her department’s focus in the coming year. “The cyberdomain is a target, a weapon and a threat vector all at the same time.”Mr. Trump has called the increasing flow of immigrants to the southern border one of the most urgent national security issues threatening the United States. Last week, issuing his first veto against legislation that would have blocked him from diverting Defense Department funds to build a border wall, the president described a recent spike in migrants crossing the border as an “invasion.”The Department of Homeland Security oversees customs officers and immigration agents who are on the front lines of the Trump administration’s campaign to close the border to illegal immigration.Ms. Nielsen did dedicate a portion of her speech on Monday to what she called a “humanitarian and security catastrophe” of Central American families traveling to the border. She also noted that the projected number of migrants who may be apprehended at the southern border this month was expected to rise to 100,000, up from 76,000 in February.But mentions of digital threats were dispersed throughout her approximately 35-minute address to an auditorium of various Department of Homeland Security officials.Among global jihadists and transnational criminals, Ms. Nielsen listed “cyberthugs and hackers and resurgent nation-state rivals” as an emerging threat to the United States. She asked two cybersecurity officials who helped safeguard the 2018 elections to stand for a round of applause.Ms. Nielsen also assailed President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and the Kremlin “for a concerted effort to undermine our elections and our democratic process using cyberenabled means.” And she said the average American citizen or company was “no match” for virtual threats from Russia, China, North Korea and Iran.“I am more worried about the ability of bad guys to hijack our networks than their ability to hijack our flights,” Ms. Nielsen said. “I am concerned about them holding our infrastructure hostage, stealing our money and secrets, exploiting children online and even hacking our democracy.”John Cohen, a former acting under secretary for intelligence during the Obama administration, said law enforcement could no longer look at the threats in the digital world and the physical world as separate issues. Extremist groups now circulate videos on the internet to inspire terrorist attacks, and drug traffickers are using the dark web — something Ms. Nielsen also highlighted in her speech.Mr. Cohen said he remained unclear on how Ms. Nielsen proposed combating cybersecurity threats.“There is an incredible amount of talent at D.H.S.,” said Mr. Cohen, also a senior adviser at the agency during the George W. Bush administration. “My concern is that talent and those capabilities are being underutilized, because in the eyes of many at the White House, the sole purpose for D.H.S. is to conduct its immigrant and border security activities.”Ms. Nielsen said the department was focused on increasing collaboration with the private sector, citing a summit meeting held in New York last year for industry and government officials. She said she expected the cooperation between various homeland security agencies to improve when the department consolidates at a former mental hospital next month.She praised the department’s work in defending the integrity of the 2018 midterm elections and said she was confident in her department’s ability to secure the 2020 presidential vote. Ms. Nielsen also said homeland security would continue to pursue prosecutions against foreign entities that hack the American digital infrastructure.“What worries me, though, is not what these threat actors have done,” Ms. Nielsen said, “but what they have the capability to do.”

Supported byTech FixBy Brian X. ChenSAN FRANCISCO — Facebook said on Thursday that millions of user account passwords had been stored insecurely, potentially allowing employees to gain access to people’s accounts without their knowledge.The Silicon Valley company publicized the security failure around the same time that Brian Krebs, a cybersecurity writer, reported the password vulnerability. Mr. Krebs said an audit by Facebook had found that hundreds of millions of user passwords dating to 2012 were stored in a format known as plain text, which makes the passwords readable to more than 20,000 of the company’s employees.Facebook said that it had found no evidence of abuse and that it would begin alerting millions of its users and thousands of Instagram users about the issue. The company said it would not require people to reset their passwords.The security failure is another embarrassment for Facebook, a $470 billion colossus that employs some of the most sought-after cybersecurity experts in the industry. It adds to a growing list of data scandals that have tarnished Facebook’s reputation over the last few years. Last year, amid revelations that a political consulting firm improperly gained access to the data of millions, Facebook also revealed that an attack on its network had exposed the personal information of tens of millions of users.In response, the company has repeatedly said it plans to improve how it safeguards people’s data.“There is nothing more important to us than protecting people’s information, and we will continue making improvements as part of our ongoing security efforts at Facebook,” Pedro Canahuati, Facebook’s vice president of engineering in security and privacy, said in a blog post on Thursday.Here’s a rundown of what you need to know about the password vulnerability and what you can do.Storing passwords in plain text is a poor security practice. It leaves passwords wide open to cyberattacks or potential employee abuse. A better security practice would have been to keep the passwords in a scrambled format that is indecipherable.Facebook said it had not found evidence of abuse, but that does not mean it did not occur. Citing a Facebook insider, Mr. Krebs said access records revealed that 2,000 engineers or developers had made nine million queries for data that included plain-text user passwords.A Facebook employee could have shared your password with someone else who would then have improper access to your account, for instance. Or an employee could have read your password and used it to log on to a different site where you used the same password. There are plenty of possibilities.Ultimately, a company as large, rich and well staffed as Facebook should have known better.There’s no easy way to know. Facebook is still investigating, and will begin alerting people who might have had their passwords stored in the plain text format.Facebook is not requiring users to change their passwords, but you should do it anyway.There are many methods for setting strong passwords — for example, do not use the same password across multiple sites, and do not use your Social Security number as a username or a password. You can set up security features such as two-step verification as well.There are a few other steps to take. I recommend also setting up your Facebook account to receive alerts in the event that an unrecognized device logs in to the account. To do so, go to your Facebook app settings, tap Security and Login, and then tap Get alerts about unrecognized logins. From here, you can choose to receive the alerts via messages, email or notifications.An audit of devices that are logged in to your account may also be in order, so that you know what laptops, phones and other gadgets are already accessing your account. On Facebook’s Security and Login page, under the tab labeled “Where You’re Logged In,” you can see a list of devices that are signed in to your account, as well as their locations.If you see an unfamiliar gadget or a device signed in from an odd location, you can click the “Remove” button to boot the device out of your account.Follow Brian X. Chen on Twitter: @bxchen.

Supported byBy Adam SatarianoLONDON — A British review of Huawei found “significant” security problems with the Chinese company’s telecommunications equipment, a conclusion that supports a United States effort to ban it from next-generation wireless networks.The British report, released on Thursday, said there were “underlying defects” in Huawei’s software engineering and security processes that governments or independent hackers could exploit, posing risks to national security. While the report did not call for an outright ban of Huawei equipment, it was endorsed by the country’s top cybersecurity agency.The conclusions buttress the Trump administration’s push to convince its allies that Huawei, the world’s largest maker of telecommunications equipment, creates grave risks to national security. The White House has accused Huawei of being an arm of the Chinese government that can be used for spying or to sabotage communications networks, a charge that Huawei has vehemently denied.But the American push has run into hurdles. Many countries, including Britain, have resisted the effort to ban Huawei, arguing that the risk can be mitigated. It is a critical time for wireless carriers as they prepare to spend billions of dollars to introduce next-generation wireless networks, known as 5G, which governments see as essential infrastructure for a rapidly digitizing global economy.The British report highlights broader challenges facing many countries. While Huawei products may pose cybersecurity risks, the company is a key provider of the equipment needed to build 5G networks. If countries issue an outright ban, they could face costly delays in adopting the technology that not only will increase the download speeds of mobile phones but is expected to create breakthroughs in manufacturing, transportation and health care. And Huawei is already a central part of many countries’ telecommunications networks, making a ban logistically difficult.Governments are looking to continue using Huawei’s equipment while limiting its risks. Germany, India and the United Arab Emirates, among others, have signaled they are unlikely to follow the Americans’ lead on a ban of Huawei’s 5G equipment.In a statement, Huawei said the British report “details some concerns about Huawei’s software engineering capabilities. We understand these concerns and take them very seriously.”This week, the European Union issued recommendations on securing 5G networks that didn’t call for a Huawei ban. The British government is expected to issue new telecommunications regulations this year.One main concern raised by the United States and others pushing for a ban is Huawei’s ties to the Chinese government, which maintains tight control over the national economy. A law adopted by China in 2017 has been interpreted as requiring companies to provide assistance to Beijing on national security matters.Garrett Marquis, a spokesman for the National Security Council, said the United States commended Britain “for taking a hard look at its telecommunications vendors in order to ensure the maximum security of its networks.” He added, “We share many of the concerns listed in the Oversight Board’s report.”The British authorities are trying to differentiate Huawei’s security flaws from a broader effort by Beijing to infiltrate its networks. The report on Thursday described a company with poor engineering practices and problems stemming from those engineering flaws, more than one operating at the orders of Chinese authorities.In the report, British officials determined that Huawei could not replicate much of the software it built, meaning that the authorities could not be sure what code was being introduced into the country’s wireless networks. They added that Huawei had poor oversight of suppliers that provided components for its products.“There remains no end-to-end integrity,” the report said.A senior American government official, speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss sensitive internal deliberations about Huawei, said the British finding of pervasive sloppy engineering underscored concerns about the security risks and hidden costs of using cheaper Huawei equipment in 5G networks.The environment at Huawei could allow for the intentional introduction of an exploitable flaw that would be lost in the background noise of poor practices, the official said. The official added that the intelligence community did not expect to find overt, smoking-gun “back doors” in Huawei code clearly meant to permit illicit access to network data. Instead, it expects “bug doors” — flaws that can be explained away as a mere mistake if they come to light, but that can be exploited for the same purposes by China or by other sophisticated actors who discover them.Since 2010, Britain has had an oversight board, now led by the National Cyber Security Center, tasked with overseeing Huawei’s operations. The company’s products and code are reviewed at a security lab about 70 miles outside London. In November, after British officials raised questions with Huawei about its practices, the company pledged to spend $2 billion over the next five years to improve its software and security processes.The approach is seen as a potential model for other countries looking to add more safeguards over Huawei. Germany has opened a security lab in Bonn where Huawei’s equipment and code can be reviewed. The company has also opened a facility in Brussels to appease the concerns of European Union officials.British officials have remained confident the Huawei risk can be managed. Ciaran Martin, the head of the National Cyber Security Center, said this year that an outright ban wasn’t necessary because the country had strong oversight and kept Huawei equipment outside the most sensitive areas of the country’s networks.Yet Thursday’s report remained sharply critical of Huawei. “No material progress has been made,” the report concluded.Follow Adam Satariano on Twitter: @satariano.Adam Satariano reported from London. Charlie Savage and Julian E. Barnes contributed reporting from Washington.

Supported byBy Mike IvesA prominent Vietnamese historian who criticized his government for not doing more to challenge Beijing’s territorial claims in the South China Sea has been ousted from Vietnam’s ruling Communist Party over comments he made on Facebook.The political purge of Tran Duc Anh Son, an expert on Vietnam’s claims in the South China Sea, is a rare window into how the party handles dissent among its rank-and-file members. It may also underline the sensitivities around Vietnam’s handling of its relationship with China, its largest trading partner and former imperial occupier.Vietnam’s state-run news media reported last week that Dr. Son, who is in his early 50s and worked for years at a state-run research institute in the central city of Danang, was expelled for posting false information and violating a code that governs party members’ behavior.“I knew this day would come,” Dr. Son said in an interview over a messaging service. He closed his Facebook account this week, saying he needed more time to work on book projects and transition to a new job as the director of a publishing house.Dr. Son said the Facebook comment that got him in the most trouble was a short question he posed last September under a cartoon that obliquely criticized the government.A character in the cartoon said: “Seventy-three years ago they corralled people to a rally to listen to the Declaration of Independence. Seventy-three years later they forbid people to gather to celebrate Independence Day.”That was an apparent reference to a famous 1945 speech by Ho Chi Minh in which the future Vietnamese president declared his country’s independence from France, and an oblique criticism of the Communist Party’s current leaders, who have escalated repression of political dissidents.Dr. Son said the question he wrote underneath the cartoon — “Is this true?” — prompted a monthslong investigation by Danang’s Communist Party Central Committee.He said he was also investigated for a Facebook comment — “How have things become this bad?” — that he left under a post featuring two articles in the state-run news media about the country’s education minister.Even though many Vietnamese have low opinions of the Communist Party, its members generally avoid criticizing it for fear of repercussions that would affect their livelihoods, said Mai Thanh Son, a senior researcher at the state-affiliated Institute of Social Sciences in central Vietnam.“The expulsion of Tran Duc Anh Son is a thoughtless decision,” he said. “It’s like releasing a tiger into the forest, and it contributes to stripping away the cowardly face of the ruling apparatus that the party represents.”In January, a cybersecurity law took effect in Vietnam that requires technology companies with users there to set up offices and store data in the country, and disclose user data to the authorities without a court order. Human rights advocates say Vietnam’s new cybersecurity law was meant to let the government better surveil its critics on Facebook, the country’s most popular social media platform.Facebook declined to comment on the record about Dr. Son’s account.The Foreign Ministry did not respond to emailed questions about Dr. Son’s expulsion from the party, including whether his criticism of Vietnam’s South China Sea policies had played a role.Vietnam has clashed repeatedly at sea with China, which claims most of the waterway as its own. Notably, in 2014 a state-owned Chinese oil company towed an oil rig to waters near Danang, provoking a tense maritime standoff and anti-Chinese riots at several Vietnamese industrial parks. The Communist Party likely fears a repeat of such anti-China-fueled Vietnamese nationalism, partly because some critics question why the government does not take a harder line against Beijing.Chinese officials and scholars seek to justify Beijing’s claim to sovereignty over South China Sea waters that encircle the disputed Paracel and Spratly archipelagos by citing maps and other evidence from the 1940s and ’50s.But Dr. Son and other Vietnamese historians argue that the Nguyen dynasty, which ruled present-day Vietnam from 1802 to 1945, wielded clear administrative control over the Paracels, decades before imperial or post-revolutionary China showed any interest in them.Dr. Son is a former director of a fine arts museum in Hue, Vietnam’s imperial capital, and a specialist in Nguyen-era porcelain. He developed an interest in Vietnam’s territorial claims as a student poking around archives of old maps and documents.In 2009, officials in Danang asked him to pursue his research on Vietnam’s maritime claims on the government’s behalf. He subsequently spent years traveling the world in search of material, including as a Fulbright scholar at Yale University.Dr. Son has said the historical evidence of Vietnam’s maritime claims is so irrefutable that the government should mount a legal challenge to China’s activities in waters around some of the sea’s disputed islands, as the Philippines successfully did in a case that ended in 2016.“I’m always against the Chinese,” he told The New York Times during an interview in 2017. But he said at the time that Vietnam’s top leaders were “slaves” to Beijing who preferred to keep the old maps and other documents hidden.“They always say to me, ‘Mr. Son, please keep calm,’” he said. “‘Don’t talk badly about China.’”The city of Danang, where Dr. Son lives and works, once had a reputation for its powerful, family-based networks that were willing to ignore dictates from the central government, said Bill Hayton, an author of books about Vietnam and the South China Sea and an associate fellow at Chatham House, a research institute based in London.But Mr. Hayton noted that Vietnam’s current leadership, led by the Communist Party’s general secretary, Nguyen Phu Trong, has lately disciplined some key Danang political figures, including firing Nguyen Xuan Anh, the head of the city’s Communist Party Central Committee.Even though Danang officials presumably supported and financed Dr. Son’s research, he added, “the current Vietnamese leadership does not want to rock the boat with Beijing and seems determined to keep a lid on criticism of China’s actions in the South China Sea.”Chau Doan contributed reporting.

Supported byBy Julian E. Barnes and Adam SatarianoWASHINGTON — The Trump administration’s aggressive campaign to prevent countries from using Huawei and other Chinese telecommunications equipment in their next-generation wireless networks has faltered, with even some of America’s closest allies rejecting the United States’ argument that the companies pose a security threat.Over the past several months, American officials have tried to pressure, scold and, increasingly, threaten other nations that are considering using Huawei in building fifth-generation, or 5G, wireless networks. Mike Pompeo, the secretary of state, has pledged to withhold intelligence from nations that continue to use Chinese telecom equipment. The American ambassador to Germany cautioned Berlin this month that the United States would curtail intelligence sharing if that country used Huawei.The warnings stem from the United States’ concern that Huawei and other Chinese telecom companies are a significant security threat given Beijing’s control over the industry. Top officials have pointed to new Chinese security laws that require Huawei and other companies to provide information to intelligence officials, arguing China could gain access to the vast amounts of data that will ultimately travel over 5G, allowing Beijing to spy on companies, individuals and governments — an accusation Huawei has vehemently denied.But the campaign has run aground. Britain, Germany, India and the United Arab Emirates are among the countries signaling they are unlikely to back the American effort to entirely ban Huawei from building their 5G networks. While some countries like Britain share the United States’ concerns, they argue that the security risks can be managed by closely scrutinizing the company and its software.The decisions are a blow to the Trump administration’s efforts to rein in Beijing’s economic and technological ambitions and to stop China from playing a central role in the next iteration of the internet.American government officials are now looking for other ways to curb Huawei’s global rise without the cooperation of overseas allies, including possibly restricting American companies from supplying Huawei with key components that it needs to build 5G networks across the world.“It is looking dicey. We are running out of runway,” said Mike Rogers, the former Republican congressman who led the House Intelligence Committee and who has long been a fierce critic of Huawei.The United States is not ready to admit defeat, but its campaign has suffered from what foreign officials say is a scolding approach and a lack of concrete evidence that Huawei poses a real risk. It has also been hampered by a perception among European and Asian officials that President Trump may not be fully committed to the fight.Mr. Trump has repeatedly undercut his own Justice Department, which unveiled sweeping criminal indictments against Huawei and its chief financial officer with accusations of fraud, sanctions evasion and obstruction of justice. Mr. Trump has suggested that the charges could be dropped as part of a trade deal with China. The president previously eased penalties on another Chinese telecom firm accused of violating American sanctions, ZTE, after a personal appeal by President Xi Jinping of China.Those moves have only deepened concerns that the administration’s fight against Huawei is not really about national security and instead reflects its political and economic ambitions.European and Asian officials have complained privately that recent American intelligence briefings for allies did not share any sort of classified information that clearly demonstrated how the Chinese government used Huawei to steal information, according to people familiar with the discussions. European officials have told counterparts that if the United States has evidence the Chinese government has used its companies to do so, they should disclose it.One senior European telecommunications executive said that no American officials had presented “actual facts” about China’s abuse of Huawei networks.Ren Zhengfei, the founder of Huawei, has accused the United States of having political motivations in leveling criminal charges against the company and has said the firm does not spy for China.Unlike the United States, European wireless networks are much more dependent on Huawei, so banning its equipment would be far more consequential. Many of the leading carriers, including Vodafone and Deutsche Telekom, use the company’s equipment, and a widespread ban would result in costly changes that executives have warned may delay the debut of 5G in the region.Garrett Marquis, a spokesman for the National Security Council, said the United States continued to work “with our allies and like-minded partners to mitigate risk in the deployment of 5G and other communications infrastructure.”Mr. Rogers said the notion that other nations could adequately manage the security risk was misplaced. “They are so convinced they can get over the security problem. It defies logic,” he said.But he said Mr. Trump had not helped his administration’s efforts by suggesting that a national security matter like Huawei could be wrapped into some type of trade pact with China.“That is a big mistake,” Mr. Rogers said. “You have taken a national security issue and given it away in a trade deal. This is about the security of data.”Europeans have their own China trade worries, which could also factor into reluctance to ban Huawei. Although European officials have grown increasingly suspicious of Beijing’s growing economic might, China is still the European Union’s second-largest trading partner after the United States. This week, Mr. Xi is scheduled to be in Italy.“I’m not sure a ban is the solution,” said Caroline Nagtegaal, a member of European Parliament from the Netherlands who helped write a resolution on the cybersecurity risks posed by China that avoided calling for a Huawei ban. “We have to be very careful making a step like that.”Many countries facing American pressure have not made any final decisions. In Britain, for instance, intelligence officials say the threat can be managed, but the government could ultimately overrule them.To bolster its campaign, the administration has begun threatening retaliation against countries that do not agree to its demands.Mr. Pompeo suggested in Hungary that the presence of Huawei could influence decisions on where to station troops overseas, noting that its adoption in wireless networks would make it “more difficult for America to be present.” He followed up on Fox Business Network, saying if countries adopted Huawei technology, the United States “won’t be able to share information” with them.The American ambassador to Germany, Richard Grenell, expanded on Mr. Pompeo’s public messaging with a letter to Berlin, warning of repercussions should it use Huawei. The letter was first reported by The Wall Street Journal.Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany quickly shot back, saying her country was “defining our standards for ourselves.”Andrea Kendall-Taylor, a former American intelligence officer who is now the director of the Transtlantic Security Program at the Center for a New American Security, said administration officials had wrongly framed the decision for European powers as standing with either the United States or China. Countries in Europe, including Britain and Germany, do not want to make that choice, and instead want to maintain good trade relations with China.“The U.S. needs to approach this not as a black and white issue,” Ms. Kendall-Taylor said. “The U.S. should avoid generating more resentment in already fraught relations with the Europeans. To manage the China challenge we will need the Europeans on our side, so we need to work together.”The Trump administration has had some small victories, at least rhetorically. The Czech Republic’s cybersecurity agency has issued warnings about Huawei and other Chinese telecom companies, though the government remains divided over a ban. Poland earned praise from Vice President Mike Pence for its actions against Huawei, which included arresting one of its employees on espionage charges. But as Poland courts Chinese investment, it is unclear if it will embrace a full ban.The most decisive action against Huawei by an American ally is outside Europe, where Australia last year banned the company from its 5G networks.The administration continues to look for other ways to put Huawei at a global disadvantage, including an executive order that would prohibit American companies from using Chinese telecommunications gear in 5G networks. Intelligence and security officials are also considering a more aggressive presidential order that would prevent American companies from supplying Huawei with components that it needs to build 5G networks.While Huawei would eventually make its own version of those components, such export restrictions could slow down the company’s 5G development, winning time for competitors to improve their own offerings.American officials are also exploring ways to counter Huawei’s biggest advantage: its low price and financing deals. Members of Congress and administration officials have discussed ways for the United States and its allies to offset the favorable financing deals China offers for its telecom equipment. Among the options under consideration is providing some type of financing to allied telecom companies building 5G networks.While the United States has continued to talk tough, Mr. Trump has yet to sign any executive order that would curb Huawei’s growth and his recent comments have created doubt about how far he is prepared to go.Last month, the White House dispatched officials from the State, Defense and Commerce Departments and from the Federal Communications Commission to a wireless industry conference in Barcelona, Spain, to make the case against Huawei. But a few days before the convention started, Mr. Trump appeared to backtrack on his administration’s position, posting on Twitter that he wanted American companies to win on their merits, “not by blocking out currently more advanced technologies.”“The administration policy on Huawei and ZTE has been characterized by fits and starts and contradictions,” said Representative Adam B. Schiff, Democrat of California, who has been a top critic of Mr. Trump. “I am not sure I can make heads or tails of it.”American and European officials said that behind the scenes, the negotiations were far more nuanced than the public threats. Some European officials believe that privately the White House has been more receptive to their arguments that the security threat of Chinese telecom companies can be tempered.But the efforts to cajole or pressure European powers may have come too late, say current and former European and American officials. European officials have also told their American counterparts that there is no alternative to Huawei that offers better, more secure equipment, even at a higher price.British officials have said the risk from Huawei can be mitigated without a ban, through tough oversight and restricting Huawei to less critical parts of its networks. The British government operates a security lab where it inspects Huawei’s equipment and code for cybersecurity flaws. Last year, the inspections discovered problems with Huawei software code, but the authorities said it was not related to the Chinese government.Germany is taking a similar approach, with Huawei opening a research center in the city of Bonn where security officials can review its products. The company has also opened a facility in Brussels.Mark Sedwill, Britain’s national security adviser, said it was more important to focus on the security of the system, not the origin of the company that made the equipment. Criminal hackers, not the governments of other countries, remain the biggest threat, he said.“We think we have a pretty mature approach to this that so far — through regulation, through transparency, through setting very close standards — is protecting our interests and securing economic benefits,” Mr. Sedwill said this month during a speech at the Atlantic Council.Julian E. Barnes reported from Washington, and Adam Satariano from London. David E. Sanger contributed reporting from Washington, and Melissa Eddy from Berlin.

Supported byBy Nicole PerlrothSAN FRANCISCO — Ten years ago, Google was hacked by the Chinese military in one of the most startling cyberattacks on an American company by government-affiliated agents.This week, Chronicle, a security start-up owned by Google’s parent company, Alphabet, plans to bring some of what it learned from that incident to other companies through a widely anticipated new product called Backstory.The idea, company executives said, is simple: Backstory will make Alphabet’s vast storage, indexing and search abilities available to other companies, allowing them to search through giant volumes of data, going years back, to trace the back story of a malicious attack.Chronicle is hardly the only company doing this. Dozens of companies promise so-called big data threat intelligence and storage. But many of their customers can’t afford to pay to search through huge amounts of information.Chronicle will charge customers by their number of employees.The hack on Google, called Operation Aurora, was historic for an unusual reason: It was the first time a Chinese government hacking victim confronted its attacker.Inside the company, Sergey Brin, one of Google’s co-founders, made it his personal mission to make sure something like Aurora never happened again. Google, known for its motto “Don’t Be Evil,” had a new motto about its cybersecurity: “Never again.”Google poached cyberexperts from the National Security Agency and Silicon Valley. It built a threat analysis group on a par with those at the top intelligence agencies and designed a new security infrastructure. It also created a new team, called Google Project Zero, to hunt for critical security flaws in technology outside Google.“When the Chinese attacked in 2010, that was an entire wake-up call for us; our entire attitude changed,” said Eric Schmidt, a member of Alphabet’s board of directors who was chief executive of Google at the time of incident, in an interview.Google turned the company’s storage, search and computational power into a security weapon of sorts. Whenever something malicious appeared on the internet, Google could search its entire network — years back — in minutes to see if it had ever touched its systems.For many companies, that is a remarkably difficult task. The most popular services for storing that kind of security data are companies, like Splunk, that charge by the amount of data indexed.Inside Alphabet’s X, the company’s “moonshot factory” where Chronicle got its start, are all sorts of futuristic gadgets, from electricity-generating kites to autonomous delivery drones. By comparison, what Chronicle is doing is notably practical.Chronicle was founded by Mike Wiacek, who started Google’s threat analysis group after studying threats at the N.S.A., and Stephen Gillett, the former chief information officer at Starbucks and chief operating officer at Symantec.They first started discussing the company’s plans publicly more than a year ago, worrying start-ups doing similar work. But Mr. Wiacek and Mr. Gillett said they were interested in collaborating with other companies.Mr. Wiacek said others inside Alphabet’s X headquarters often asked him what he was doing there. “This is a moonshot, I tell them,” he said. “Just because it has an air of practicality about it, and doesn’t sound like science fiction, makes it no less audacious.”Follow Nicole Perlroth on Twitter: @nicoleperlroth

Supported byBy Karen WeiseSEATTLE — Jeff Bezos’ security consultant accused the Saudi government of gaining unauthorized access to the Amazon chief executive’s phone, as part of an effort to harm the world’s richest man.In an opinion article in The Daily Beast on Saturday, Gavin de Becker, Mr. Bezos’ security chief, alleged the Saudis wanted to hurt Mr. Bezos because he owns The Washington Post. The Post has aggressively reported on the murder of Jamal Khashoggi, one of its columnists, who was killed last year in Turkey. United States officials have concluded Mr. Khashoggi, who was critical of Saudi leaders, was killed on the orders of the Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman.Mr. de Becker said he had turned over his findings about the Saudis and their role against Mr. Bezos to law enforcement.“Our investigators and several experts concluded with high confidence that the Saudis had access to Bezos’ phone, and gained private information,” Mr. de Becker wrote.Mr. de Becker’s claims about the Saudis are difficult to verify and raise many questions. Throughout his article, the security consultant was vague on details. He did not reveal direct evidence of his accusations and wrote that he would not speak again publicly on the issue.On Sunday, American Media Inc., the parent company of The National Enquirer, which first reported earlier this year that Mr. Bezos was having an extramarital affair, issued a statement denying “the false and unsubstantiated claims of Mr. de Becker.”Amazon did not immediately have a comment about Mr. Bezos. An official with the Saudi embassy in Washington declined to comment on Saturday.Mr. de Becker’s allegations are the latest twist in a bizarre situation that has embroiled the largest U.S. tabloid publisher and Mr. Bezos, who runs Amazon and owns The Post. The unusual set of circumstances began in January, when Mr. Bezos announced that he and his wife, MacKenzie Bezos, were divorcing. The next day, The Enquirer published an exposé revealing that Mr. Bezos was romantically involved with Lauren Sanchez, a former Los Angeles TV anchor.Then in February, Mr. Bezos published a post on Medium accusing AMI of “extortion and blackmail.” Mr. Bezos said AMI had threatened to publish graphic photographs of him, including a “below-the-belt selfie,” if he did not publicly affirm that The Enquirer’s reporting on his affair was not motivated by political concerns. He said AMI, which has had ties to the Saudis, was “apoplectic” about The Post’s reporting on the Saudis.Mr. Bezos added that he had asked Mr. de Becker, his longtime security consultant, to investigate who had leaked information and photos about him.Earlier this month, The New York Times reported that two people with direct knowledge of The Enquirer’s reporting said that everything the tabloid received on Mr. Bezos’ affair, including the “below-the-belt selfie,” came from a single source. The Wall Street Journal later reported that AMI had paid Ms. Sanchez’s brother, Michael Sanchez, $200,000 for the texts.In its statement on Sunday, AMI said directly that its source was Mr. Sanchez. “The fact of the matter is, it was Michael Sanchez who tipped the National Enquirer off to the affair on Sept. 10, 2018, and over the course of four months provided all of the materials for our investigation.” AMI added, “There was no involvement by any other third party whatsover.”Mr. de Becker on Saturday said that the effort against Mr. Bezos went beyond Mr. Sanchez and also involved the Saudis. Mr. de Becker pointed to an article published on Saturday by The New York Post in which Mr. Sanchez said The Enquirer “had seen text exchanges between the secret couple” before he was in touch with the tabloid on the matter.“Reality is complicated, and can’t always be boiled down to a simple narrative like ‘the brother did it,’” Mr. de Becker wrote.Mr. de Becker said his investigation included interviews with cybersecurity experts and “people who personally know the Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman.” But he stopped short of saying what methods he believed the Saudis may have used to access Mr. Bezos’ personal information.He added that AMI had wanted him to make a public statement “saying that my investigation had concluded they hadn’t relied upon ‘any form of electronic eavesdropping or hacking in their news-gathering process,’” and that the tabloid’s story was not “instigated, dictated or influenced in any manner by external forces, political or otherwise.”Mr. de Becker said he told AMI in a recorded call that those claims were “not my truth.”Follow Karen Weise on Twitter: @KYWeise.Amy Chozick and David Kirkpatrick contributed reporting.

Supported byBy Zolan Kanno-YoungsSAN PEDRO, Calif. — The Coast Guard’s top officer laid out a “dedicated campaign” on Thursday to improve diversity in a military branch that has long struggled to recruit women and minorities, weeks after the service was shaken by the arrest of a lieutenant and self-described white nationalist accused of plotting terrorist attacks from its headquarters.Adm. Karl L. Schultz, speaking in his first State of the Coast Guard address since being named the service’s 26th commandant in June, later acknowledged that the goal to make the service more inclusive would be challenging after the Defense Department issued a policy that will force future transgender members of the military to identify as their biological sex.“We’re going to treat everybody with respect. There’s some changes that come with this policy, and we’re bound to follow that policy,” Admiral Schultz said at the Coast Guard Los Angeles-Long Beach Base before scores of Coast Guard and California law enforcement officials. “There’s some that feel, ‘Hey, you’re breaking ranks with the transgender community.’ I would say, we’ll see how it goes.”He also faces a major challenge on other diversity fronts: Out of its 41,159 members, just 14.6 percent are women, 13.7 percent are Hispanic and 5.9 percent are African-American.Admiral Schultz dedicated much of his speech to emphasizing the need to improve retention of women and minorities, and highlighting steps to do so.The Coast Guard will commission a study to explore improving retention among “underrepresented minorities” and is planning next week to release data from a similar study on the retention of women, he said. It will also use staffing from reserves to support new parents wanting to go on leave and to ease restrictions on recruits with tattoos. Admiral Schultz also said he hoped emerging opportunities in cybersecurity would attract new, younger talent.“These actions are the first steps in a dedicated campaign to identify barriers to inclusion, and to help frame solutions that challenge the status quo,” Admiral Schultz said. “They are small ripples that will lead to a groundswell of cultural change.”The Coast Guard has suffered in part because of an image that its work is limited to finding those lost at sea and towing ships, when in reality the organization operates as a military and law enforcement service whose members travel throughout the world as part of the intelligence community. It also struggled during the latest government shutdown, when its service members went weeks without a paycheck. Admiral Schultz said he expected the Coast Guard to fully recover by June 1.The transgender policy has also created a hurdle — one that Admiral Schultz’s predecessor, Paul F. Zukunft, challenged in 2017, when the former commandant said he would continue to support transgender members of the Coast Guard the same day President Trump tweeted about barring them from the military.Lawyers for transgender service members have said the policy, which the Supreme Court allowed to take effect this year while litigation continues, amounts to a ban on transgender people. Defense Department officials have rejected that assertion, saying transgender service members can still serve.Although the Coast Guard is under the Department of Homeland Security, not the Defense Department, the master chief petty officer of the Coast Guard, Jason M. Vanderhaden, said it was important that the organization follow a policy consistent with other arms of the military so it could deploy its members to assist those branches without any restrictions.After Admiral Schultz’s speech, he gave Senator Lisa Murkowski, Republican of Alaska, a tour of the Forrest Rednour, a Coast Guard cutter typically used to intercept drug and human traffickers.Ms. Murkowski said she looked forward to results of the women’s retention study and was looking to see if there were similar struggles in other branches of the military.“The message of an all-inclusive Coast Guard, I think it’s important for the Coast Guard and all members of our armed service,” Ms. Murkowski said.The speech came weeks after the arrest of the Coast Guard lieutenant and self-described white nationalist in Maryland on gun and drug charges. Prosecutors said the suspect, Lt. Christopher Paul Hasson, plotted to kill prominent journalists and Democratic politicians, as well as what he called, “leftists in general.”In his first public comments about the arrest, Admiral Schultz asked the public to judge the 228-year-old organization “on the fiber of our character.”“It tells us you need to be alert and aware in our workplaces,” Admiral Schultz told reporters before the speech. “People can have a work life and an outside-work life. So it heightens all our awareness about keeping our senses being intrusive leaders.”

Supported byBy Emily CochraneWASHINGTON — Presidential budgets are by tradition declared dead on arrival even before the details reach Capitol Hill, and President Trump’s $4.75 trillion budget for the 2020 fiscal year received that greeting in spades on Monday.But with a new Democratic majority in the House, the release of Mr. Trump’s budget blueprints marked the start of a consequential budget season. House Democrats must now work out a blueprint for governing that will define the party’s vision in clear terms — and answer burning questions on health care, taxation, climate change and other policy matters that have dogged the new majority since it took control.In short, it is time for the Democrats to show their cards.“We have a very different set of values and priorities,” Representative John Yarmuth of Kentucky, the chairman of the House Budget Committee, told reporters on Monday. “Ours will be a very realistic budget resolution.”The budget is a nonbinding document, and with Republicans controlling the Senate, it may be impossible for the two chambers to work out their differences. Faced with that prospect, Democratic leadership on Monday discussed not holding a vote on the budget, according to a leadership aide. The meeting, first reported by Politico, did not end with a decision.Just as the first budget of the Tea Party Republican era, in 2011, defined the party for years, a budget passed by House Democrats this year would almost certainly have political consequences.Mr. Yarmuth outlined a number of issues that Democrats hope to address in a budget that he said the committee hoped to unveil by mid-April, pointing to health care savings, a possible immigration-law overhaul and infrastructure investment as likely priorities. He pointed to prescription drug pricing, combating the opioid epidemic, infrastructure and investment in cybersecurity as areas in the administration’s proposal that could yield compromise.“The ingredients — in terms of either end of the Capitol — are there to make a reasonable deal,” Mr. Yarmuth said. “The White House is the wild card.”But even without Republicans, Democrats will need to find common ground. An increasingly vocal left flank is adamant that their initiatives — such as “Medicare for all” and the ambitious Green New Deal — be included in an initial budget blueprint. More moderate Democrats are likely to be just as adamant that they are not.And Mr. Yarmuth appeared to tip his hand when he said that a final budget proposal would probably focus on protecting and restoring elements of the Affordable Care Act, as opposed to endorsing Medicare for all.This spring’s budget will force Democratic leadership to weigh the limitations of divided government against the desires of members who won their seats by promising to shake things up in Washington.In 2011, House Republicans — who also faced a Senate and a White House under the control of the opposing party — lost support from rank-and-file members as they muscled through an ambitious budget devised to limit federal spending. The budget produced by the Budget Committee chairman at the time, Paul D. Ryan, included deep domestic spending cuts and plans to offer voucherlike “premium support” to older Americans to buy private insurance outside Medicare. Democrats used that budget as a political cudgel.Democrats face the same prospects, and they are divided on which policies to enshrine in the blueprint. In an effort to hear a range of perspectives, Mr. Yarmuth has met with the Congressional Progressive Caucus and is scheduled to meet with the Blue Dog Coalition, a group of Democrats who preach fiscal discipline, to discuss the coming budget. Both groups have members on the Budget Committee.“So far, we haven’t run into any huge ideological obstacles to putting together a reasonable budget,” Mr. Yarmuth said.Representative Ro Khanna, a liberal Democrat from California and a member of the committee, said he planned to advocate the inclusion of Medicare for all and other facets of a progressive agenda, as well as rolling back some elements of Republican tax cuts passed under Mr. Trump and President George W. Bush.“We have to make the case for economic growth for progressive policies,” Mr. Khanna said in an interview. Including Medicare for all in the final budget provides an opportunity for Democrats to “explain to the American people that this is going to save average families and the country money.”He acknowledged that it was unlikely that there would be a complete embrace of all of the policies, particularly the Green New Deal’s sweeping plan for tackling climate change and providing jobs, but that should not deter Democrats from including some nods to the broader vision.“That pragmatic vision has to be done side by side with the aspirational one,” he said.Lawmakers also have to contend with a ballooning federal deficit and a looming deadline to address spending caps that Congress put in place under President Barack Obama. While Mr. Trump’s budget proposal technically adheres to the limitations, Mr. Yarmuth said the side were far from an ideal starting point in negotiations.“We’re so far apart in our priorities that we have to wonder if the White House is going to be a serious negotiator, and that’s disturbing,” Mr. Yarmuth said. “But, on the other hand, this is a proposal not unlike the one they submitted last year, and we ultimately came up with a spending agreement.”

Supported byBy Raymond Zhong and Paul MozurSHANGHAI — The Chinese electronics giant Huawei is preparing to sue the United States government for barring federal agencies from using the company’s products, according to two people familiar with the matter.The lawsuit is to be filed in the Eastern District of Texas, where Huawei has its American headquarters, according to the people, who requested anonymity to discuss confidential plans. The company plans to announce the suit this week.The move could be aimed at forcing the United States government to make its case against the Chinese equipment maker more publicly. It is part of a broad push by Huawei to defend itself against a campaign led by the United States to undermine the company, which Washington sees as a security threat. Executives have spoken out strongly against America’s actions, and new marketing campaigns have been aimed at mending the company’s image among consumers.For many years, United States officials have said Beijing could use Huawei’s telecommunication equipment to spy and disrupt communication networks. The company has denied the allegations, but major wireless carriers such as AT&amp;T and Verizon have effectively been prevented from using Huawei’s equipment as a result.Over the past year, Washington has ramped up its pressure on the firm, which is preparing to take a major role in the construction of next-generation wireless networks around the world. American officials have urged other governments to ban the use of Huawei’s products. This year, the Justice Department filed criminal charges against the company and its chief financial officer in connection with evading American sanctions on Iran.A hearing that is set to begin this week in Canada will determine whether the company’s finance chief, Meng Wanzhou, will be extradited to the United States to face charges. Ms. Meng’s lawyers have sued the Canadian government and police, arguing that the circumstances of her arrest and detention in December violated her rights.[Many Canadians see Ms. Meng’s case as an example of foreign money’s influence in Vancouver.]The criminal case against Ms. Meng in the United States could be complicated by comments from President Trump as the White House has engaged in trade negotiations with China. While criminal cases have traditionally been independent matters, Mr. Trump indicated that Huawei’s fate could be a bargaining chip.During a meeting in the Oval Office with a delegation of Chinese officials last month, Mr. Trump said, “We’ll be making that decision,” when asked if he would drop the criminal charges against Huawei as part of the trade deal. He added, “We’ll be talking to the attorney general.”A lawsuit by Huawei against the United States is expected to challenge a section of a defense spending authorization law that was approved last year. The provision blocks executive agencies from using telecom equipment made by Huawei and another Chinese company, ZTE.According to one of the people familiar with the matter, Huawei is likely to argue that the provision is a “bill of attainder,” or a legislative act that singles out a person or a group for punishment without trial. The Constitution forbids Congress to pass such bills.Huawei’s plans are not final. It could still decide to change course, or to not file a lawsuit at all.The United States Embassy in Beijing did not immediately respond to a request for comment. A call placed outside business hours to the United States Court House in Plano, Tex., where Huawei’s American headquarters are, was not answered.[China announced espionage accusations against a former Canadian diplomat on Monday, days before Ms. Meng’s extradition hearing was set to take place.]In many ways, the Huawei case echoes that of another company that has aroused security concerns in the United States: the Russian cybersecurity firm Kaspersky Lab.Around two years ago, American officials began expressing worries that Moscow could use the company’s software to gather intelligence. The company denied the allegations. But in September 2017, the Department of Homeland Security directed federal agencies to begin removing the company’s products from government systems. Congress then codified the ban in a spending law.Kaspersky filed two lawsuits in response, arguing that the prohibition amounted to a bill of attainder. In May, a judge in the District of Columbia dismissed the suits, ruling that Congress was motivated by the legitimate desire to protect government computer networks against Russian intrusion. The judge also said Kaspersky’s sales to the American government were such a small fraction of the company’s business that the ban was not especially harsh.An appeals court upheld the ruling a few months later. Banning Kaspersky was a “prophylactic, not punitive,” measure, the judge in the appeal, David S. Tatel, wrote.“Given the not insignificant probability that Kaspersky’s products could have compromised federal systems and the magnitude of the harm such an intrusion could have wrought, Congress’s decision to remove Kaspersky from federal networks represents a reasonable and balanced response,” Judge Tatel wrote.Raymond Zhong reported from Shanghai, and Paul Mozur from Hong Kong. Alan Rappeport contributed reporting from Washington.Follow Raymond Zhong and Paul Mozur on Twitter: @zhonggg and @paulmozur.

Supported byBy Christina CaronFacebook announced Thursday its first policy to combat misinformation about vaccines, following in the footsteps of Pinterest and YouTube.The social network is adopting an approach similar to the one it uses to tackle fake news: The company will not remove incorrect content, but it will aim to reduce the reach of that content by making it harder to find.“Leading global health organizations, such as the World Health Organization and the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, have publicly identified verifiable vaccine hoaxes,” Monika Bickert, Facebook’s vice president for global policy management, said in a statement Thursday. “If these vaccine hoaxes appear on Facebook, we will take action against them.”Anti-vaccination groups have flourished on Facebook, partly because of the site’s search results and “suggested groups” feature.The group Stop Mandatory Vaccination, for example, has nearly 159,000 members. Larry Cook, the founder, bragged on a recently deactivated GoFundMe page about an anti-vaccine Facebook video that he said was averaging over 100,000 views per day. “This is how we reach parents!” he wrote. The video has 50,000 shares and has been viewed 2.1 million times.Under Facebook’s new policy, groups and pages that spread misinformation about vaccines will have lower rankings and won’t be included in recommendations or predictions when users are searching within Facebook, the company said.Instagram, which is owned by Facebook, will have similar policies. “We won’t show or recommend content that contains misinformation about vaccinations on Instagram Explore or hashtag pages,” Ms. Bickert said in the statement.Facebook’s new rules come amid measles outbreaks in the United States and abroad, and just days after yet another study demonstrated that the measles vaccine doesn’t cause autism. The idea that vaccines are somehow linked to autism has been widely debunked, but still persists among anti-vaccination activists.Last month, Representative Adam B. Schiff, Democrat of California and the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, wrote a letter to Mark Zuckerberg, the chief executive of Facebook, asking what steps the company was taking to prevent anti-vaccine information from being recommended to users.Facebook said its artificial intelligence system will search for vaccine misinformation and flag posts and links — including pictures and videos that appear in closed groups — that will then be reviewed by someone at the company.If the content is found to contain false claims about vaccines, then posts from the violating groups or pages will appear lower in a user’s news feed, the company said. But members of Facebook groups that promote anti-vaccination content will still see the posts on the group’s page. The company said it is working on ways to warn new or existing group members if a group has shared vaccine misinformation.Anti-vaccine groups will become “craftier” as moderation techniques develop, said Joan Donovan, the director of the Technology and Social Change Research Project at the Shorenstein Center at the Harvard Kennedy School.Sometimes anti-vaccine propaganda appears on old, abandoned Facebook accounts, for example. On Thursday afternoon, the Facebook page Occupy Philly showed two recent posts warning about the dangers of vaccination.Anti-vaccination groups can also harness search-engine optimization “by using very specific key words, especially the prescription names of some of these vaccines,” Dr. Donovan said, adding that anti-vaccination groups will also spread out into “momversation groups,” where parents gather online.Screen shots and other images containing written messages can also help posters hide from tech-based moderation, said Dr. Donovan, who researches disinformation and media manipulation.While Facebook said its artificial intelligence system can decipher text that has been added to photos, the company said it will not be targeting every single post about vaccines, and is focusing instead on specific claims about vaccines that have been disproved.The company is also aiming to crack down on advertising that includes misinformation about vaccinations. Such ads will be rejected, Facebook said, and the company may disable ad accounts that violate its policies. It has also removed certain vaccine-related targeting options like “vaccine controversies.”“I’m really pleased that they are recognizing the downstream impact of this kind of misinformation and taking the right steps to balance expression with the recognition that their curation and their suggestions do have an impact on the communities that people join,” said Renée DiResta, the co-founder of Vaccinate California and the director of research at a cybersecurity company. “I think that the decision to stop accepting ad dollars is the right call.”The World Health Organization identified “vaccine hesitancy” as one of this year’s 10 notable threats to global health. The decision to avoid vaccination can stem from many things: worries about side effects, cost, moral or religious objections, or a lack of knowledge about immunizations.As anti-vaccine groups have infiltrated social media, companies have been pressured to stem the tide of misinformation.Last year, Pinterest blocked results associated with certain vaccine-related searches and said last month that it was working with experts to develop a more tailored long-term approach.YouTube started surfacing more authoritative content in late 2017 for people searching for vaccination-related topics, and its policies prohibit anti-vaccine videos from showing ads. In India, the company has rolled out information panels that fact-check specific claims as another way of combating misinformation, YouTube said on Thursday. The company said the fact-check panels will expand to other countries this year.

Supported byBitsBy Adam SatarianoEach week, technology reporters and columnists from The New York Times review the week’s news, offering analysis and maybe a joke or two about the most important developments in the tech industry. Want this newsletter in your inbox? Sign up here.Hello, Adam Satariano here, back from Barcelona, where the MWC Barcelona tech conference, formerly called Mobile World Congress, just wrapped up.An event celebrating new bendable smartphones, augmented-reality goggles and internet-connected beer kegs would seem an unlikely base for an important geopolitical standoff. But that was what happened in the Spanish city this past week, when members of the Trump administration attended MWC to try to persuade other countries to ban the Chinese technology company Huawei.You’re forgiven if you have not kept up with the deluge of news regarding the Huawei fight. It’s a complicated, fast-moving and often-technical story.In short, the White House has been trying for a year to get allies, particularly in Europe, to impose bans against using Huawei equipment inside the new wireless networks, known as 5G, that will become available starting this year. 5G is seen as critical infrastructure for a quickly digitizing economy, increasing phone data speeds but also creating new opportunities in robotics, transportation, manufacturing and artificial intelligence.The United States says using Huawei equipment in the new networks will create a grave vulnerability that the Chinese government will exploit. It’s a dramatic and worrying accusation — if true. But the Trump administration hasn’t provided much hard evidence.In Barcelona, I met in a hotel lobby with a frustrated executive from one of Europeʼs biggest carriers who said the United States had presented no new details to support its accusations.Instead, American officials have tried to gain support by rehashing China’s history of cyber misbehavior and President Xi Jinping’s increasing control over the Chinese economy.This executive’s frustration may explain why the White House effort has lost momentum in recent weeks. British intelligence officials recently indicated that a ban wasn’t necessary, and The Wall Street Journal reported that Germany shared that view.At MWC, the White House sent a team from the State, Commerce and Defense Departments, as well as the chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, Ajit Pai, to make the case against Huawei.Nobody appeared to be won over. Vodafoneʼs chief executive, Nick Read, defended Huawei at a news conference, repeating a not-so-subtle swipe at the United States that criticism of Huawei wasn’t “fact based.” Officials in the United Arab Emirates, a typically reliable American ally in the Middle East, seemed to agree. On Monday, just as MWC was starting, the country’s state-owned wireless carrier announced a deal with Huawei to build the 5G network there.Perhaps sensing a momentum shift, Huawei has ratcheted up its opposition to the American campaign. On Monday, a Huawei executive, Vincent Peng, said cybersecurity was a “technical challenge, not a political challenge.” The next morning, Guo Ping, the company’s rotating chairman, said the United States had a more checkered history of espionage than Huawei, referring to the whistle-blower Edward J. Snowden’s disclosures in 2013 of an internet surveillance program by American spy agencies and their allies.Huawei is a relatively boring company. While it has branched out to become one of the world’s largest manufacturers of smartphones, it primarily makes the gear needed to make phone networks work. It’s the kind of infrastructure people rely upon but don’t give much thought.But the debate is worth following. Huawei foreshadows conflicts about important emerging technologies such as artificial intelligence, in which China is developing an expertise that the United States and its allies are likely to view as an economic and security threat.In other news:■ The other week, I averaged three hours and 12 minutes of screen time per day. I feel somewhat proud of this figure, pathetically, because it was down from some of my more frightening recent averages, which occasionally topped — not sure I should admit this — five hours. Kevin Roose described his detox experience in a memorable column about how we can assert control over our digital lives. I have a long way to go.■ Life is even worse than we thought for Facebook moderators who are paid $15 an hour to review the internet’s most horrific material. After Casey Newton’s must-read investigation was published this past week in The Verge, I like the idea that all Facebook employees should have to spend a month doing this job.■ Ahead of the 2018 midterm elections, the United States blocked internet access to the Russian group behind many of the online misinformation campaigns targeted at Americans, The Washington Post reported, saying it “was part of the first offensive cybercampaign against Russia designed to thwart attempts to interfere with a U.S. election.”■ And finally, if you thought cryptocurrencies were so 2018, guess again. My colleagues Nathaniel Popper and Mike Isaac reported that big internet messaging companies like Facebook and Telegram were working on their own digital coins.Adam Satariano writes about the technology industry in Europe and other parts of the globe. He is based in London. Follow him on Twitter here: @satariano.

Supported byBy Raymond ZhongSHENZHEN, China — These are not carefree days for Huawei, the Chinese tech behemoth. The United States is trying to persuade the world not to use the company’s equipment in cellular networks. The Justice Department has charged the firm and its chief financial officer with bank fraud and theft of trade secrets.Yet Huawei’s business is soaring. And the company’s leaders sound confident that Washington can do little to stop it from flying higher.Huawei earned more than $105 billion in revenue last year, up nearly a fifth from 2017, Guo Ping, the company’s deputy chairman, said on Friday. Profit grew by a quarter, to more than $8 billion. Though Huawei has not sold shares to the public, it publishes audited yearly financial results as a gesture toward openness.Speaking at the company’s headquarters in the southern Chinese city of Shenzhen, Mr. Guo said that “we will do everything we can to shake off outside distractions, improve management and make progress toward our strategic goals.”Mr. Guo said that the United States’ actions had created “a certain amount of trouble” for Huawei, but that customers would judge the company based on their own interests, not Washington’s.“We Chinese would say that they don’t mind their table manners,” Mr. Guo said of the United States government. “I feel very sorry for these so-called gentlemen.”In telecommunications equipment, smartphones and more, Huawei has become a globe-straddling colossus despite years of accusations by the United States that the company acts and spies on behalf of the Chinese government.Huawei today is in the same league, in terms of yearly revenue, as Microsoft and Google. By that metric, it is almost as big as three of China’s most influential internet companies — Alibaba, Tencent and Baidu — combined.For much of the past year, though, Huawei has battled a torrent of legal and regulatory troubles.In December, the company’s finance chief, Meng Wanzhou, was arrested in Canada after the United States accused her of defrauding Huawei’s banks and causing them to violate sanctions against Iran. Ms. Meng — who is the daughter of Huawei’s founder and chief executive, Ren Zhengfei — remains in Canada while legal authorities decide whether she will be extradited.Huawei, which was also charged, this month pleaded not guilty to the accusations, which also include obstructing a criminal investigation into the company. It has said it would never spy on customers, even if asked to do so by Beijing, and has said it is unaware of any wrongdoing by Ms. Meng.In the first two months of 2019, even as the company faced heightened scrutiny around the world, Huawei’s revenue grew by more than 30 percent from a year earlier, Mr. Guo said on Friday.“Because of external pressure, we are more closely united internally, so we can face together these pressures imposed on us by the outside world,” Mr. Guo said. “This will make us even stronger.”Mr. Guo said that Huawei spent nearly $15 billion last year, or 14 percent of its sales, on research and development. But it is unclear whether Huawei will be able to capitalize fully on its investments in equipment using the next generation of wireless technology, or 5G. Washington has pressed allied governments to bar cellular companies from using the company’s 5G gear over espionage concerns.A review led by Britain’s top cybersecurity agency, released on Thursday, found “underlying defects” in Huawei’s software engineering and security processes, although it stopped short of calling for a ban on the company’s products.The chief executive of Vodafone, the British carrier, has warned that a full Huawei ban would delay the construction of 5G networks. Few industry observers believe, however, that carriers that are blocked from using Huawei’s 5G gear would be put at a major technological disadvantage as they rolled out new data services.“We’re talking about an industry with standards, meaning that by and large, everybody’s equipment operates in a similar way,” said Richard Kramer, a founder of the technology research firm Arete. “I think it’s an overstatement to say that the rest of the world won’t be able to build 5G networks without Huawei.”The other big unknown on Huawei’s horizon is whether Washington will take further measures to undermine the company.The Justice Department has already filed criminal charges against Huawei and Ms. Meng. But other federal agencies could do more, such as cut the company off from American parts and technology. The American chip companies Broadcom and Xilinx, both of which count Huawei as a customer, have recently told investors that they are monitoring the situation closely.The immense power that Washington wields over Chinese tech companies was on vivid display last year when the Commerce Department nearly drove a smaller telecom equipment maker, ZTE, out of business by denying it access to American components. Commerce officials determined that the company had illegally exported American-sourced technology to Iran.The Trump administration ultimately softened that penalty. But months later, the Commerce Department imposed a sales ban on Fujian Jinhua Integrated Circuit, a chip maker, saying that the company was likely to act against national security interests. An American company, Micron Technology, has accused Jinhua of stealing chip designs.Kevin J. Wolf, a partner at the law firm Akin Gump Strauss Hauer &amp; Feld, was an assistant secretary of commerce during the Obama administration. He oversaw the first phase of the Commerce Department’s case against ZTE.It is extremely difficult, he said, to predict what more might be done to Huawei. The law gives officials wide berth to decide how to protect national security.“The standard is so broad,” Mr. Wolf said. “It’s up to whoever’s in charge to determine what a national security concern is.”Follow Raymond Zhong on Twitter: @zhonggg.

Supported byBy Scott ShaneBALTIMORE — In a case that exposed the government’s embarrassing failure to secure its secrets, a 54-year-old former National Security Agency contractor pleaded guilty on Thursday to taking classified documents home in a deal likely to put him in prison for nine years.Harold T. Martin III, who worked in the N.S.A.’s Tailored Access Operations hacking unit, admitted his guilt more than two years after his arrest in what may be the biggest breach of classified information in history. F.B.I. agents who swarmed his modest home south of Baltimore in 2016 found stacks of documents and electronic storage devices stashed in his car, his home and even a garden shed.But investigators never found proof that Mr. Martin, who was working on a doctorate in information systems at the time of his arrest, had shared the stolen secrets with anyone else, though there is evidence he may have considered doing so.Wearing a gray jail jersey with white stripes and a neatly trimmed beard, Mr. Martin stood and answered the judge’s questions in a clear, calm voice. “It’s time we closed this Pandora’s box,” the defendant said at one point, his most extensive statement in court.Mr. Martin pleaded guilty to one count of willful retention of defense information. Judge Richard D. Bennett said he would approve and impose the prescribed sentence, which was negotiated between prosecutors and defense lawyers. Sentencing was set for July.His lawyers, James Wyda and Deborah Boardman, have argued that he was simply an eccentric hoarder who started taking work home and could not stop. “His actions were the product of mental illness. Not treason,” his lawyers said in a statement. They called him a “patriot” and said he was “deeply remorseful.”In an interview, Robert K. Hur, the United States attorney for Maryland, called the scale of the information taken by Mr. Martin “breathtaking in its scope” and said the nine-year sentence would be the longest ever imposed for illegal retention of secrets.Poring over the piles of material they found in their searches, investigators were astonished to discover that for 20 years, Mr. Martin, known as Hal, had been carrying classified material out of the N.S.A. and other security agencies where he had worked. At the time of his arrest, he was working for Booz Allen Hamilton — the same intelligence contractor that had employed Edward Snowden, who flew to Hong Kong in 2013 and gave journalists a large trove of N.S.A. documents.Along with the Snowden and Martin cases, another N.S.A. worker, Nghia Pho, was sentenced in September to five and a half years in prison after taking home secret material describing the agency’s hacking tools. Intelligence officials believe the tools and related documents were then stolen from Mr. Pho’s home computer by Russian hackers. A young N.S.A. linguist named Reality Winner was sentenced last August to five years and three months for leaking a classified document on Russian election hacking to The Intercept, an online publication.But perhaps the most damaging leak of all was discovered around the time of Mr. Martin’s arrest in August 2016, when a mysterious group calling itself the Shadow Brokers announced an online auction of a long list of software exploits the N.S.A. used to break into foreign computer networks. The Shadow Brokers eventually made the stolen cyberweapons public, and other countries and criminal groups began using them for hacking and theft around the world.F.B.I. investigators focused on Mr. Martin after getting a tip from Kaspersky Lab, a Russian cybersecurity company. Two Kaspersky employees had gotten cryptic messages from Mr. Martin — calling himself “HAL999999999” — via Twitter that seemed to be offering secrets, as Politico first reported in January. The assistance was a bit ironic, because American intelligence officials have sometimes accused Kaspersky of being too close to Russian intelligence, charges the company denies.“Shelf life, three weeks,” Mr. Martin wrote in one of his cryptic texts, seeming to suggest that he was offering material on a time-limited basis. But shortly after sending the messages, he blocked on Twitter the two Kaspersky employees he had just contacted, so they could not respond.The F.B.I. quickly linked the HAL999999999 Twitter account to Mr. Martin, and agents were soon searching his modest house in Glen Burnie, a Baltimore suburb. They discovered a staggering total of 50 terabytes of government data, a virtual library’s worth, much of it classified at a high level.Investigators at first believed Mr. Martin might be the Shadow Brokers, who had posted their first announcement of their auction of N.S.A. hacking tools a half-hour after Mr. Martin blocked the two Kaspersky workers on Twitter. They found the same N.S.A. exploits in Mr. Martin’s vast collection of stolen material.But the Shadow Brokers continued to post taunting manifestoes and stolen software for months after Mr. Martin was jailed. It appears that the investigators eventually concluded that Mr. Martin was not the source of the Shadow Brokers’ material, at least not wittingly.Government officials have never charged anyone in the Shadow Brokers breach, and speculation has centered on two possible perpetrators: Russian intelligence or disgruntled N.S.A. insiders. If F.B.I. and N.S.A. security officers have made progress in solving the case, they have not said anything about it in public.According to court filings, Mr. Martin first agreed to plead guilty in January 2018. But negotiations subsequently fell apart, and the plea came more than a year after it was first expected. Mr. Martin has been incarcerated since his arrest, and the two and a half years he has served will be counted toward his sentence.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.

Supported byBy David E. SangerWASHINGTON — The Trump administration is expanding its efforts to block Chinese acquisitions in the United States, moving to force a Chinese firm that owns Grindr, the gay dating app, to relinquish control over concerns that Beijing could use personal information to blackmail or influence American officials, according to people familiar with the situation.The action, which is being driven by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, is unusual given that the panel typically investigates mergers that could result in control of an American business by a foreign individual or company, judging whether deals could threaten national security. This appears to be the first case in which the United States has asserted that foreign control of a social media app could have national security implications.The administration has not announced the move, which will require that Grindr be sold, or explained it. But officials familiar with the case, which was first reported by Reuters, say the concern focused on the potential for the blackmail of American officials or contractors, if China threatened to disclose their sexual orientation, or track their movements or dating habits.Three years ago, a Chinese firm that owns both gaming and credit services businesses, Beijing Kunlun Tech Co. Ltd., a public company listed on the Shenzhen stock exchange, bought a 60 percent stake in Grindr, which is based in West Hollywood, Calif., for $93 million. Early last year, it bought the remaining shares for a little over $150 million.While there were news reports about both transactions, the United States did not take action to block the acquisitions. Since then, the United States’ definition of national security threats has expanded, in part over concerns by the Trump administration and lawmakers about China’s ability to gain access to critical American technology.It is unclear why the panel, known as Cfius, acted now, more than three years after control of the company switched to Chinese hands. And so far, there is no public evidence that any information on the app has been used by the Chinese government.But Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon, said he, along with several other senators, asked Cfius to conduct a review.“Last year, my office met with a top official from the Treasury Department to express my serious concerns about the national security risks associated with a Chinese company buying Grindr,” he said in a statement. While he said he could not “confirm specific actions by Cfius,” a highly secretive panel, “it is high time for the administration and Cfius to consider the national security impact of foreign companies acquiring large, sensitive troves of Americans’ private data.”Congress handed more power to the panel last year, allowing it to examine transactions that fell short of majority control of a company and involved just minority stakes. The expansion was an effort to counter Chinese minority investments in Silicon Valley companies that gave investors an early look at emerging technologies.The Kunlun purchases had never been submitted to Cfius, giving the government the leverage to go back in after the sale to try to force a divestment. Calls to Kunlun’s office number were not answered, and emails seeking comment were not returned.Grindr has already faced questions about its control and use of personal data. The company faced a huge backlash for sharing users’ H.I.V. status, sexual tastes and other intimate personal details with outside software vendors. After the data sharing was made public by European researchers in 2018, the company said it would stop sharing H.I.V. data with outside companies.Last year was the first time Cfius appeared to be concerned about the purchase of companies that contained sensitive data. The government killed a proposed merger last year between MoneyGram, the money transfer firm, and Ant Financial, a payments company related to the Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba.The United States has also embarked on a global campaign to block a big Chinese telecom equipment giant, Huawei, from building the next generation of wireless networks, known as 5G, over concerns that it could divert critical data through China, or be forced to turn over data running through its networks to Beijing. The White House has essentially accused Huawei of being an arm of the Chinese government that can be used for spying or to sabotage communications networks, a charge that Huawei has vehemently denied.But the administration’s efforts to control what kind of personal data is available to China’s intelligence services may have come too late. China’s ministry of state security and other Chinese groups have already been accused of successfully stealing personal data from American databases.The theft of 22 million security clearance files from the Office of Personnel Management in 2014, along with similar theft of data from the Anthem insurance networks and Marriott hotels, have all been attributed to Chinese actors by American intelligence officials, who say they were most likely operating on behalf of the government.The files stolen in the 2014 government breach contain far more personal data than the Chinese could probably find on any individual social media site: They include work history on sensitive United States projects, information about bankruptcies, medical conditions, relationship histories, and any contacts with foreigners. The loss of the information forced the C.I.A. to reassign personnel headed to China, and was considered among the largest losses of sensitive security information in decades. The Obama administration declined to publicly concede that the breach was committed by Chinese intelligence services.China has taken steps of its own to limit foreign companies’ access to its citizens’ personal information. A recently enacted cybersecurity law mandates that user data be stored in the country, where it can be kept under the government’s control. In response to the law, Apple said it would open its first data center in China, and formed a partnership with a Chinese company to run the center and handle data requests from the government.Before the law even came into effect, the Chinese government had pressured foreign technology companies to operate servers only within its borders — meaning the data is available to Chinese authorities under Chinese law. Amazon and Microsoft have partnered with Chinese firms to offer cloud computing services to Chinese customers.The United States has also pressed China to allow insurance companies and other American firms that control personal data to enter the Chinese market, a demand that goes back nearly two decades. China has agreed to do so, and that agreement is expected to be part of the larger trade deal being negotiated between American and Chinese negotiators.But the Grindr case could give the Chinese government an excuse to make its own national security claims if American firms sought to purchase a Chinese insurance company, or any of its social media firms.Raymond Zhong contributed reporting from Shenzhen, and Michael J. de la Merced from London.

Supported byCanada LetterBy Ian AustenIn Canada, the House of Commons’ justice committee generally goes about its work in earnest obscurity. Jody Wilson-Raybould, a former cabinet minister, dramatically changed that with her appearance on Wednesday, which stretched on for almost four hours.[Want the Canada Letter in your inbox every week? Sign up here.]Ms. Wilson-Raybould accused Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, his aides and others of applying improper pressure and making “veiled threats” to get her to reach a settlement in a criminal corruption case involving SNC-Lavalin, the major construction and engineering company in Montreal.We did, of course, keep a watch on her testimony, its immediate aftermath and the possible consequences for Mr. Trudeau:[Read: Trudeau Promised a Fresh Approach to Politics. Now He’s Embroiled in Scandal][Read: Trudeau’s Political Woes Mount With Demands for More Inquiries][Read: Trudeau’s Ex-Attorney General: ‘Veiled Threats’ Were Made to Drop Case]It’s risky to predict how this will all play out, both in the short term and for October’s federal election. That’s in part because those outcomes will likely be affected by a series of investigations, both active and proposed, into the actions of the prime minister and his aides.Here’s a look at who’s seeking answers, what they could uncover, and who else might still take a peek:What’s Already Underway• Parliamentary hearings: The House of Commons’ Standing Committee on Justice is where Ms. Wilson-Raybould finally broke her silence this week. It’s also where other key players are set to appear, notably Gerald Butts, Mr. Trudeau’s friend who stepped down last month as his top political adviser amid the scandal.But the justice committee isn’t set up to run a full-scale investigation. It has neither a team of people digging up evidence, nor the power to order up internal government documents.And, as the opposition has repeatedly pointed out this week, the Liberals control the committee. This makes it unlikely that anything the panel does will inflict much harm on Mr. Trudeau.• An ethics investigation: After a request from two New Democratic Party lawmakers, the conflict of interest and ethics commissioner, Mario Dion, is also on the case. But by law, he can only look for possible conflicts of interest.Simply applying pressure for political advantage doesn’t amount to such a conflict, earlier commissioners have ruled. Past investigations by the ethics commissioner’s office have dragged on for more than a year, and the office has no power to order serious sanctions.What May Come Next• A criminal investigation: The Conservative leader Andrew Scheer and others have asked the Royal Canadian Mounted Police to look into possible obstruction of justice. The police force, citing standard policy, will not confirm whether it’s started an investigation or plans to do so.And there’s a good chance that we’ll never know whether the Mounties made Mr. Trudeau the target of an investigation. The reason goes back to 2005, when the force sent a fax to a New Democratic member of Parliament confirming that it was investigating then-Finance Minister Ralph Goodale in connection with illegal stock trading. Arriving in the midst of a federal election campaign, the fax exploded like a bomb. Mr. Goodale was cleared; a public servant in the finance department later pleaded guilty to insider trading charges.An investigation later found no fault with the police force, but the Mounties were widely criticized as having meddled in politics. They have been more circumspect about politically sensitive investigations since then.Today, as Mr. Trudeau’s public safety minister, Mr. Goodale oversees the Mounties.•An independent public inquiry: Jagmeet Singh, the leader of the New Democrats, was the first to push for an independent special commission to look into the affair, and the idea has support from other opposition parties.Mr. Trudeau has taken the position that the Justice Committee hearings and the conflict of interest investigation are all that’s needed.An inquiry is the least appealing option for the Liberals, who remember all too well the Gomery Commission. Then-Prime Minister Paul Martin meant for it to clear the air around the Liberals after a corruption scandal involving the previous Liberal government. But it backfired. Evidence presented at the inquiry only highlighted the corruption, and Mr. Martin’s loss in the 2006 election was widely attributed to the hearings.Any inquiry into the current scandal is unlikely to be finished before October’s vote. But the hearings would certainly provide the kind of publicity the Liberals don’t want leading up to, and during, an election campaign.—This week’s Trans Canada and Around The Times highlights were compiled by Lindsey Wiebe, the Canada audience growth editor.—Hockey Night with Huawei? From sponsoring Canada’s weekly hockey ritual to financing 5G research, the Chinese company’s growing presence in Canada is  raising concerns about cybersecurity.—The extradition hearing for Meng Wanzhou, the Huawei chief financial officer wanted on fraud charges in the United States, will get underway next week in Vancouver. It promises to be lengthy.—A Canadian drug distributor stands accused of selling unapproved and mislabeled medicines to unsuspecting Americans.—A new month means a new crop of Netflix offerings in Canada. Our March list includes the Oscar-sweeping (but not quite Best Picture-winning) musical “La La Land” and Armando Iannucci’s political satire “The Death of Stalin.”—Doyenne of domesticity Martha Stewart is teaming up with Ontario-based Canopy Growth Corporation for a new line of CBD products, including some for pets.— The Canadian director Domee Shi’s short film “Bao” is now an Oscar winner. She spoke to The Times last year about the film’s origins, and that surprising twist.—Climate change is causing route changes and cancellations in dog-sled races in Canada and Alaska, and the future of the famed Iditarod looks increasingly uncertain.—Yardbird is one Hong Kong’s most popular and influential restaurants, even eight years after opening. The two Albertans behind it are now planning an expansion.—The belief that tough bosses get results — and fast — is widespread. But researchers say there’s no evidence to support it.—Fake names, 18 corporations and more than 100 Airbnb host accounts were created to run an illegal Airbnb empire in Manhattan, according to a lawsuit. Here’s how the scheme worked.A native of Windsor, Ontario, Ian Austen was educated in Toronto, lives in Ottawa and has reported about Canada for The New York Times for the past 15 years. Follow him on Twitter at @ianrausten.We’d love your feedback on this newsletter. Please email your thoughts and suggestions to nytcanada@nytimes.com. And if you haven’t done so, please subscribe to the email newsletter version.

Supported byBy Paul Mozur and Austin RamzyHONG KONG — The Chinese electronics giant Huawei sued the United States government on Wednesday, arguing that it had been unfairly and incorrectly banned as a security threat.The lawsuit will force the government to make its case against the company more public, but it could also leave Huawei vulnerable to deeper scrutiny of its business practices and relationship with the Chinese government.The United States has argued that Huawei poses a risk because its equipment could be used by the Chinese authorities to spy on communications and disrupt telecommunications networks. That position has led major wireless carriers in the United States to avoid Huawei’s equipment.Huawei denies the allegations and says the lawsuit is meant to prove it does not engage in such practices. The company’s plans to file the lawsuit were first reported on Monday by The New York Times.“The U.S. Congress has repeatedly failed to produce any evidence to support its restrictions on Huawei products,” Guo Ping, Huawei’s rotating chairman, said in a statement announcing the filing of the lawsuit. “We are compelled to take this legal action as a proper and last resort.”The lawsuit, which was filed in a United States District Court in Plano, Tex., where Huawei has its American headquarters, argues that part of the 2019 National Defense Authorization Act is unconstitutional because it singles out Huawei. The act bans government agencies from contracting with Huawei or companies that use the company’s equipment.Huawei, China’s biggest maker of telecommunications equipment, has been under pressure for months by the United States authorities. Now, it’s striking back. The suit is part of a markedly aggressive legal and public relations offensive that Huawei has recently mounted to push back against spying accusations.During a news briefing broadcast on an official Huawei feed on Twitter, Mr. Guo pulled no punches.“The U.S. government has long branded Huawei as a threat, it has hacked our service and stolen our emails and source code,” he said, referring to National Security Agency documents provided by the former contractor Edward J. Snowden that showed the agency had pried its way into Huawei’s systems.“Still, the U.S. government is sparing no effort to smear the company and mislead the public about Huawei,” he added. The briefing, streamed on Twitter — an American internet platform blocked in China — reached more than two million people.In December, Meng Wanzhou, the daughter of Huawei’s founder and the chief financial officer of the company, was detained in Canada at the behest of the United States, which is seeking to extradite her.Her father, Ren Zhengfei, the company’s founder, has since rejected the claims against his daughter and said that he would wait to see if President Trump would intervene in the case. Ms. Meng has been in court this week in Vancouver, British Columbia, as part of an extradition hearing.In the meantime, Huawei has battled against many of its customers and nations that have said they would pull back from buying its products. China has also retaliated against Canada by detaining several Canadian citizens. This week, Canadian officials also complained that China had begun to suspend the import of canola from the country.Lu Kang, the spokesman for China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs, said on Thursday that the Chinese decision was based on the discovery of pests in Canadian canola.China has a long history of interrupting trade with other countries in the middle of diplomatic spats. In September 2010, China halted the export of rare earth metals to Japan for two months during a dispute over the sovereignty of a cluster of tiny islands between Japan and Taiwan. Weeks later, China suspended trade talks with Norway and then halted the import of Norwegian salmon after the Nobel Peace Prize was awarded to a Chinese dissident by a Norwegian committee.Huawei’s lawsuit argues that by singling out the company, Congress has violated constitutional principles on the separation of powers and also the bill of attainder clause, which prohibits legislation that singles out a person or entity for punishment without trial.“The actual and intended effect of these prohibitions is to bar Huawei from significant segments of the U.S. market for telecommunications equipment and services, thereby inflicting immediate and ongoing economic, competitive, and reputational harms on Huawei,” the company’s lawyers wrote in the suit.They added that the prohibitions have been carried out without “a fair hearing or the opportunity to rebut the allegations against it, and without opportunity for escape.”The Russian cybersecurity firm Kaspersky Lab filed, and ultimately lost, a similar legal challenge two years ago. After the Department of Homeland Security directed federal agencies to ban Kaspersky products from their systems, Congress codified the directive into a law.Kaspersky filed two lawsuits arguing it had been singled out for punishment without a trial. A judge ultimately dismissed the lawsuits, pointing out they came from a legitimate desire to protect American networks.The Justice Department filed criminal charges against Huawei in January, but those cases focus on the company’s connections to evading American sanctions on Iran and its theft of intellectual property. Neither relates to the core question faced by governments around the world about whether using Huawei’s equipment in new 5G networks causes security concerns.The new lawsuit seeks to focus on that question, and to push the United States government to make its case. While Huawei is unlikely to reverse American opposition to the company, it may hope to win over government officials in other countries, including some in Europe, who will probably be following the American lawsuit closely.Debate about the security of Huawei’s systems has come at a critical moment, with countries around the world preparing to spend hundreds of billions of dollars on expanding cellular networks to next generation 5G technology.The new networks will have faster speeds, but also be used to connect a bewildering number of new sensors and data-collection systems alongside smartphones. That would make vulnerabilities in the networks potentially more serious than with the cellular networks of the past.Mr. Lu, the Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman, expressed support for Huawei’s legal action.“We believe that it is perfectly justified and fully understandable for companies to safeguard their legitimate rights and interests through legal means,” he said.Many Chinese expressed support on social media for Huawei’s legal stand against the United States. Some others noted with sarcasm the difficulties of similar legal recourse for companies or individuals within China’s system.“So you can sue a government?” wrote one user on Weibo, the Chinese social media service. “Interesting. All of a sudden I’m thinking, actually I don’t dare think about it.”.Keith Bradsher contributed reporting from Shanghai. Zoe Mou contributed research from Beijing, and Qiqing Lin from Shanghai.

Supported byThe Trump campaign floated a proposal for a wholesale 5G network. It’s politically expedient but still a great idea.By Kevin WerbachMr. Werbach, a professor at the Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania, served as an adviser on telecommunication policy in the Clinton and Obama administrations.The Trump re-election campaign’s wireless open access proposal was a poorly vetted scheme possibly intended to score political points. It was squelched almost immediately after it became public, as shocked White House staff members complained that it contradicted the administration’s support for competing wireless networks. The twist? Open access wireless is actually a terrific idea. Some forward-thinking Democrats and public interest advocates have been pushing it for decades.The concept, promoted by Republican operatives such as Newt Gingrich and Karl Rove, is for a network supporting fifth-generation (5G) wireless technology to operate on a wholesale basis. Carriers such as AT&amp;T, Comcast and Verizon could buy capacity. So could anyone else: Apple, Amazon, Walmart, Uber or small operators serving rural areas. No company could use exclusive control over spectrum to block competition.Last year, a leaked National Security Council presentation called for nationalization of 5G networks to improve cybersecurity and better compete against China. The proposal was ignominiously killed and its author left the White House. The Trump re-election campaign’s proposal wisely dropped the government takeover. It shifted the focus to wholesale access, which could be overseen by an independent nonprofit organization, like the independent system operators that manage electricity markets. Today’s cellphones use fourth-generation wireless technology, or 4G. 5G, a set of standards under development, promises higher speeds, improved coverage and better support for new technologies such as augmented reality, autonomous vehicles and connected sensors in all types of devices. 5G networks require denser construction of towers, reducing the distance between a tower and each device. To make 5G a reality, companies and consumers around the world will have to invest hundreds of billions of dollars over the next decade to upgrade hardware, phones and networks. The countries leading the way could reap huge economic benefits.The December arrest in Canada of a top official of Huawei, China’s biggest communications hardware provider, raised the stakes considerably. Meng Wanzhou is accused of committing fraud to help Huawei evade sanctions against Iran. The United States is pressuring its allies to ban Huawei from building their 5G networks on national security grounds.Those moves will not, however, accelerate 5G deployment in the United States. The Chinese government aggressively coordinates and promotes 5G activity, which is proceeding at a breakneck pace. China Tower, for example, added 460 wireless tower sites per day in 2017, more than ten times the rate of American companies, according to a report by Deloitte.The view of American policymakers, which has been consistent through at least four administrations, is that competition among wireless operators is superior to heavy-handed government initiatives. Nevermind that while American wireless providers have a strong track record on innovation, prices for consumers are high by global standards, and the so-called free market is actually an oligopoly of four major carriers that could soon fall to three. Way back in 1995, a Columbia University economist, Eli Noam, proposed an alternative: a wholesale spectrum provider that sold capacity to all. Over the next few years, some progressives (myself included) argued that cable broadband networks should be subject to a similar open access mandate. And in 2010, as the Federal Communications Commission developed the National Broadband Plan, a team led by the Harvard legal scholar Yochai Benkler made a detailed case for wholesale sharing. The idea was shot down each time amid furious industry opposition. Why would the Trump campaign endorse open access? Rivada Networks, a politically connected firm that counts Peter Thiel, a prominent Trump donor, among its investors, appears to be positioning itself for the lucrative contract to provide the technology for such a system. Mr. Trump’s political advisers see the open access plan as a way to improve wireless service in rural areas, a gift to the president’s base.These motivations should not obscure the value of open access. The communications industry has already shown that a competitive open market sometimes can’t develop without government action. The F.C.C. had to prevent phone companies from squelching internet service providers, and many companies that develop online applications face potential blocking of their services and discrimination by broadband operators. The primary way the government makes wireless spectrum available today is through exclusive licensing to the highest bidder. That can make it difficult for companies that provide niche services such as telemedicine and smart electric grids, or that serve less populous areas, which the big national carriers often ignore.Even some architects of the current system are reconsidering. Peter Cramton, for example, helped more than a dozen countries design spectrum auctions. He’s now Rivada’s chief economist. As Mr. Cramton and his co-author, Linda Doyle, wrote in 2017, wholesale open access offers the best hope to break the wireless oligopoly while also using spectrum more efficiently.They were right. Making capacity available in real time at market prices limits hoarding and encourages innovation. Unleashing our brilliant start-up ecosystem through such market mechanisms, along with opportunities for unlicensed access to wireless capacity, is America’s best hope to beat China in 5G.But a poorly managed implementation could create a greedy wholesale monopolist, or turn wireless access into a political football, as is the disastrous fate of Australia’s open access fiber network. And the details of implementation are not this administration’s strong suit.There is also no guarantee that rural wireless providers will rush in to take advantage of the opportunity. A wholesale system will require careful oversight and a long-term commitment by the government. The political campaign’s rapid walk-back does not inspire confidence.Nonetheless, tech-savvy Democrats should welcome the embrace of their open access vision. Even if it means being more supportive of a Trump campaign position than the White House. Kevin Werbach, a professor at the Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania, is the author of “The Blockchain and the New Architecture of Trust.” He served as an adviser on telecommunications policy in the Clinton and Obama administrations.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported byBy Nicole PerlrothSAN FRANCISCO — North Korean hackers who have targeted American and European businesses for 18 months kept up their attacks last week even as President Trump was meeting with North Korea’s leader in Hanoi.The attacks, which include efforts to hack into banks, utilities and oil and gas companies, began in 2017, according to researchers at the cybersecurity company McAfee, a time when tensions between North Korea and the United States were flaring. But even though both sides have toned down their fiery threats and begun nuclear disarmament talks, the attacks persist.In 2017, Mr. Trump mocked Kim Jong-un as “rocket man” in a speech at the United Nations, while North Korea tested missiles capable of delivering a nuclear warhead to the United States. The attacks began soon after that. Though the two sides failed to reach an agreement last week, Mr. Trump struck a conciliatory tone toward his North Korean counterpart.The revelation of North Korea’s most recent hacking activity adds new details to the tensions surrounding the summit meeting last week, which ended abruptly without any deals. After their first meeting, about eight months earlier, North Korea had agreed to stop test-firing its missiles.“For 15 months, they haven’t tested weapons because of this negotiation but over those same 15 months they have not stopped their cyber activity,” said Victor Cha, the Korea chairman at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington.With the help of an unnamed foreign law enforcement agency, the McAfee researchers gained access to one of the main computer servers used by the North Korean hackers to stage their attacks.The McAfee researchers said they watched, in real time, as the North Koreans attacked the computer networks of more than a hundred companies in the United States and around the globe. Last month, they expanded their targets to companies in Turkey, operating from a block of internet addresses traced to Namibia, one of the few countries that still maintains friendly relations with Pyongyang.“They are very, very, very active. It’s been nonstop,” said Raj Samani, McAfee’s chief scientist. “We’ve seen them hit in excess of 100 victims.”The exact motive of the attacks was not clear. They were well-researched and highly focused and, in many cases, aimed at engineers and executives who had broad access to their companies’ computer networks and intellectual property.McAfee, which is based in Santa Clara, Calif., would not name the targets of the attacks and said it would make its finding public Sunday. But the firm did provide a map of North Korean hackers’ targets.The vast majority were in the United States, with the most frequent marks in Houston, an oil and gas hub, and New York, a finance hub. Other major targets included London, Madrid, Tokyo, Tel Aviv, Rome, Bangkok, Taipei, Seoul and Hong Kong. Russia and mainland China, two countries that have maintained cordial relations with North Korea, were relatively untouched.North Korea, like the United States and many other countries, has long been accused of using hackers to further its national interests. In 2014, apparently in retaliation for a movie that mocked Mr. Kim, North Korean hackers hit Sony Pictures Entertainment. They destroyed Sony’s computer servers, paralyzed the studio’s operations and eventually leaked embarrassing emails from executives, in what would become a playbook for the Russian attacks and leaks of emails ahead of the 2016 elections.North Korean hackers have been tied to attacks on banks all around the world for financial gain — a rarity among government-affiliated hackers but not surprising for a country ravaged by economic sanctions. The “WannaCry” attack, which paralyzed more than 150 organizations around the globe in 2017, was also traced to North Korea.Mr. Cha, of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, said cyberattacks remained the “third leg” of North Korea’s overall military strategy. “They’re never going to compete with the United States and South Korea soldier to soldier, tank for tank,” he said. “So they have moved to an asymmetric strategy of nuclear weapons, ballistic missiles and the third leg is cyber, that we really didn’t become aware of until Sony.”Since the Sony attack, McAfee’s researchers said North Korea’s hackers had significantly improved their capabilities: They are much better at hiding their tracks and researching their targets. And in many of the attacks McAfee witnessed, North Korean hackers had done their homework.They scoured the Microsoft-owned business site LinkedIn, for example, to find the profiles of industry job recruiters. They sent emails that appeared to come from those recruiters’ accounts, often in perfect English, promoting job opportunities.When a target clicked on an attachment or link in the email, the hackers gained access to the target’s computer.“The campaign was clearly really well prepared,” said Christiaan Beek, McAfee’s senior principal engineer and lead scientist. “It was very well researched and very targeted. They knew the individuals they were going for, and they drafted emails in such a way that their targets clicked on them.”The tools they used to implant malware in the recent attacks, which McAfee’s researchers called “Rising Sun” because of a reference in the code, were also starkly improved.Though the implants shared code with previous North Korean attacks, McAfee’s researchers said the hackers added new functions to lift data off infected machines. They also went to great lengths to delete their digital movements and encrypt their traffic.Mr. Beek and Mr. Samani said their team at McAfee was able to follow the hackers’ movements only because of their access to the North Koreans’ server. “The more code we saw, the more links we could see to more and more attacks,” Mr. Beek said.Considering other recent North Korean hacking campaigns that McAfee’s researchers have tracked — notably against the 2018 Winter Olympics and a separate spate of attacks on banks last year — Mr. Beek said North Korea showed no signs of slowing this activity.Security experts said the attacks would have to be addressed at some point if the two countries should continue talks.“Their very aggressive cyberactivity will have to be addressed in future discussions,” Mr. Cha said. “They are extremely active and, it’s clear to me at least, they’ve stopped missile testing because of the ongoing negotiations, but they’re not stopping in cyber.”Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article misstated the length of time between the first and second summit meetings between President Trump and Kim Jong-un, North Korea’s leader. It was about eight months, not 15.Follow Nicole Perlroth on Twitter: @nicoleperlroth

Supported byBy Hannah BeechHANOI, Vietnam — Goose-stepping soldiers and children with red Communist kerchiefs greeted Kim Jong-un on Friday afternoon in Vietnam, as the North Korean leader shifted from the unpredictability of his summit meeting in Hanoi with President Trump, which ended unexpectedly with no accord, to a carefully staged state visit.A day after the meeting ended abruptly and ahead of schedule, President Nguyen Phu Trong of Vietnam welcomed Mr. Kim to a more familiar atmosphere, with solemn expressions of Communist comradeship, martial music and soldiers parading with rifles as the two leaders watched from a reviewing platform.The meeting with Mr. Trump was supposed to make progress toward eliminating North Korea’s nuclear weapons program and formally ending the Korean War. But there was another, implicit agenda, as well: Both allies and adversaries of Mr. Kim’s impoverished and oppressed nation had hoped that he might be inspired by the way Vietnam has flowered economically while keeping a grip on politics.It was not clear how much of that message he might absorb. After meeting with the impulsive Mr. Trump and facing an unruly throng of journalists, Mr. Kim turned to a schedule with all the scripted, red carpet formality of an official visit to a fellow Communist state.Mr. Kim’s trip to Vietnam, the fourth country he has visited since taking power in 2011, contrasts sharply with his time in Singapore last June, when he and Mr. Trump held their first direct talks and Mr. Kim also played the tourist.Taking a stroll through a futuristic flower garden and stopping by a rooftop bar, Mr. Kim appeared to relish Singapore’s modernity. He grinned for a selfie by Vivian Balakrishnan, Singapore’s foreign minister, which was quickly posted online.This time, no selfies are expected. There has been no tourism. There will be no more news conferences.After his meeting with Mr. Trong on Friday, Mr. Kim met with Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc before attending a state banquet in his own honor.On Saturday morning, Mr. Kim is scheduled to lay wreaths at a war memorial and the mausoleum of Ho Chi Minh, the revolutionary hero, before heading in his armored stretch Mercedes-Benz to the border with China, to board his luxury train for the return journey to North Korea.Vietnam is far less repressive than North Korea, but its economic liberalization has not been matched by a comparable expansion of political and civil rights.On the eve of Mr. Kim and Mr. Trump’s arrival in Hanoi, the capital, Vietnamese dissidents complained that they were being prevented from leaving their homes or had been warned by security officials to reject interview requests from foreign news media. Nearly 100 prisoners of conscience were in Vietnamese jails last year, according to human-rights groups.Calling Vietnam’s human rights record “deplorable,” the joint chairmen of the Congressional Caucus on Vietnam wrote a letter to Mr. Trump last month, urging him to raise with Vietnam’s leaders the country’s restrictive new cybersecurity law and the detention of Americans.There was no indication that Mr. Trump had raised human rights with the Vietnamese leadership when they met on Wednesday — or with Mr. Kim. Instead, he complimented his hosts on the nation’s economic transformation.“I drove down the boulevards, and I saw all of the buildings under construction and how Vietnam is thriving,” Mr. Trump told Mr. Trong on Wednesday. “You really are an example as to what can happen with good thinking.”On Thursday morning, before negotiations on sanctions broke down and the American delegation left Vietnam earlier than scheduled, Mr. Trump also talked up North Korea’s economic potential.“They’re going to have an economic powerhouse,” Mr. Trump said of North Korea, which has a growing black-market economy.“I believe that it will be something, economically, that will be almost hard to compete with for many countries; it has such potential,” he added.As Mr. Kim arrived in Hanoi on Tuesday, Vietnamese officials stressed how Vietnam could serve as a model for North Korea. Mr. Kim would most likely visit a high-tech park or the factory for the country’s first domestic automaker to get a firsthand look at how market reforms have allowed Vietnam to flourish, Vietnamese state news media said.“Globalization does not exclude any country,” said Nguyen Manh Ha, the former director of the Vietnam Communist Party History Institute at the Ho Chi Minh National Academy of Politics. “We recognize that socialism has some shortcomings when it comes to the economy.”But Mr. Kim did not tour any of these centers of economic activity. Only some of his underlings did.North Korea was one of the first countries to recognize Vietnam’s independence from France, and Mr. Kim’s grandfather Kim Il-sung, the founder of the political dynasty that has ruled North Korea since the nation’s founding, visited Vietnam twice.In 1964, Mr. Kim’s grandfather toured Halong Bay, a collection of picturesque islands that is now a popular foreign tourist destination. Despite hopes that Mr. Kim would also visit there, local officials had to make do with a stopover on Wednesday by a North Korean delegation missing its supreme leader.Mr. Kim has cultivated a resemblance to his stocky grandfather, his hair cut high above the ears and combed straight back, his belly straining against his Asian-style suit.But on Friday, in his first public appearance since a signing ceremony with Mr. Trump was canceled because there was no agreement to sign, Mr. Kim’s demeanor was far more serious than his grandfather’s was in Vietnam. In archival photos, Kim Il-sung is often laughing with Mr. Ho, two men embarking on socialist experiments.Just before midnight on Thursday, the North Koreans called a news conference at the Meliá Hotel in Hanoi, where Mr. Kim was staying, to present their version of how the talks with Mr. Trump had broken down. It was an unusual departure from protocol for a leadership that rarely allows unscripted moments.And in another last-minute change, Mr. Kim’s scheduled departure from Vietnam on Saturday was moved up by half a day, according to diplomatic sources. He may make a beeline for Beijing, North Korea’s only patron, to discuss the fallout of the failed talks with Mr. Trump, they said.Though the Chinese leadership has expressed frustration with Mr. Kim, their red carpet, it is safe to assume, will still be rolled out.

Supported byBy Keith BradsherBEIJING — A pending trade agreement between the United States and China could put few restrictions on Beijing’s control over the strength of its currency, potentially inflaming trade hawks in Congress and within the Trump administration itself.China’s control over the value of its currency has long been a major point of conflict between Beijing and the West, though the issue has faded in prominence in recent years. Lawmakers and officials in other countries have contended that Beijing has unfairly weakened China’s currency, the renminbi, compared with the American dollar and other currencies, giving Chinese companies and factories an advantage when selling goods abroad.China has long denied the accusation.Yi Gang, the governor of China’s central bank, said at a news conference on Sunday morning in Beijing that during high-level trade talks last month in Washington, “the two sides reached consensus on many key and important issues” about currency markets.The consensus included an understanding that both countries would avoid devaluing their currencies to achieve a competitive advantage for their exports, Mr. Yi said. Both countries would also continue to comply with previous currency agreements among the Group of 20 economies, he said. Both countries would also maintain close communication about currency markets and would disclose detailed information in accordance with International Monetary Fund standards, he added.American officials have taken varying stances on the currency provisions. President Trump and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin have expressed satisfaction with them. But Robert E. Lighthizer, the United States trade representative, cautioned Congress in testimony two weeks ago that nothing was fully resolved in the trade negotiations until everything had been settled.Though the issue has ebbed as China’s currency has strengthened in recent years, the trade war has given it new relevance. The renminbi fell 10 percent against the American dollar between February and October last year, to the intense annoyance of trade hawks in the Trump administration.In effect, that partly offset the 25 percent tariffs the Trump administration imposed over the summer on $50 billion a year in Chinese goods. It fully offset, at least temporarily, the 10 percent tariffs that Mr. Trump imposed last fall on an additional $200 billion a year in Chinese goods.But the renminbi’s fall corresponded to a credit crunch in China and the precipitous slowing of the Chinese economy. Chinese officials contend that the renminbi’s fall reflected the strength of the dollar, not currency manipulation on their part. Miao Yanliang, the chief economist at the Chinese central bank, the People’s Bank of China, noted in a recent statement that the euro fell against the dollar at about the same pace as the renminbi from February to October last year, while the British pound fell even faster.Since the end of October, the renminbi has recovered nearly half its losses during last year’s slide. Foreign investors have poured money into China’s stock market and bond market. They hope to profit from China’s recent program of extra government spending and tax cuts, now being enacted to offset the economic slowdown.The currency provisions of the evolving trade agreement are essentially a reaffirmation of the statement that the G-20 economies, including China, issued when the group’s finance ministers gathered in Shanghai in February 2016.In the Shanghai currency accord, all the group’s finance ministers agreed that they would not deliberately devalue their currencies with the purpose of achieving a competitive advantage for their exports. When a country’s currency falls in value, that makes the country’s exports less expensive and more competitive in foreign countries.But the Shanghai currency accord, like the currency provisions in the Sino-American trade agreement now being negotiated, still allowed currencies to move up and down for lots of other reasons. These reasons include differences in interest rates and varying investment flows, as well as trade surpluses and deficits.China has long contended that these variables determine what happens to the value of its currency, and that it does not deliberately undervalue its currency to help exporters.The Shanghai currency accord did not require China to peg its currency at a specific value with respect to the dollar. Nor did it require China to maintain stability in the value of its currency with respect to a weighted average of the currencies of China’s trading partners.Beijing argues that it is fairer to measure the renminbi’s value against a so-called basket of currencies of its trading partners, and not just against the dollar.The Shanghai currency accord also required G-20 finance ministers to notify each other of major changes in currency policy, and to disclose data in compliance with I.M.F. standards.In August 2015, China unexpectedly devalued its currency with no warning and very little explanation. It then quietly let the currency slide further from December 2015 through early January 2016.Japan had pushed hard for the Shanghai accord because of Japanese exporters’ alarm over the Chinese devaluation.That devaluation helped China’s exporters a little, but it came at a very high cost to Beijing. Once the renminbi started sliding, it proved very hard to stop. The central bank ended up spending $1 trillion of its $4 trillion in foreign exchange reserves to stabilize the currency.Mr. Yi said on Sunday that the central bank now had a target of maintaining foreign exchange reserves of at least $3 trillion. The reserves have fluctuated at about that level for the past three years and totaled $3.09 trillion in February.That leaves very little room for the Chinese central bank to intervene again in currency markets without falling below the threshold set by Mr. Yi.The accusation by American officials that China manipulates its currency is based on a period from early 2001 to the summer of 2014 when the Chinese central bank did sell renminbi and buy dollars on a massive scale to keep the renminbi weak and help exporters.China’s foreign reserves ballooned 24 fold in that period, rising to $4 trillion from $166 billion and dwarfing every other country’s reserves.But since then, Chinese officials have struggled to prevent the renminbi from falling. As the Chinese economy has slowed, many Chinese companies and families have looked for ways to send money out of the country, potentially destabilizing not just the renminbi, but also the Chinese financial system.Beijing has responded since 2016 with increasingly draconian restrictions on capital movements. Using the formidable investigative and surveillance capabilities of the Chinese police, the government has jailed people involved in surreptitious movements of cash abroad.The crackdown has almost completely halted what had been a flood of Chinese money into American real estate and even European soccer clubs in 2015 and early 2016. China now approves few overseas acquisitions by its companies except in areas where it could acquire a geopolitical or military advantage, such as aircraft production, heavy manufacturing, cybersecurity and artificial intelligence.Mr. Yi spoke on Sunday at the annual news conference of the central bank’s leadership, held in conjunction with the 11-day session of the National People’s Congress.Follow Keith Bradsher on Twitter: @KeithBradsher.Ailin Tang contributed research.

Supported byBy Noah Weiland and Katie RogersWASHINGTON — Most Friday nights as he conducted his investigation, Robert S. Mueller III drove seven miles from his offices by the Capitol to Salt &amp; Pepper, a dimly lit, mostly empty restaurant near his home, settling into a wooden booth partly covered by a dowdy red curtain.The ritual — usually undertaken with two friends, a glass of white wine, a plate of scallops and no security detail — was perhaps the most public contrast to the way Americans came to know Mr. Mueller in his 22 months as special counsel: as a partisan symbol more than a person, his name synonymous with whatever they wanted to believe about President Trump and American law enforcement, their hopes and fears stashed in the pockets of his pinstripe suits.Throughout his investigation, Mr. Mueller chose to remain silent, the rare recluse in a world rife with Twitter battles and talking heads. But now, with his report filed, Congress clamoring for more of his findings and a polarized public picking over the remains of his work, the tight-lipped Vietnam veteran and former F.B.I. director, who will be 75 in August, remains a figure of mystery and fascination.The post-report spotlight may prove to be a new test. On Sunday, before his findings were revealed for the first time, a usually photo-shy Mr. Mueller drew a gawking crowd outside St. John’s Church near the White House, where he attended morning services, a visit that allowed for some of the first pictures of him since he was appointed special counsel in May 2017.But inside the church, few congregants took notice. Mr. Mueller, who is known to visit other Episcopal churches around Washington, is a regular.“Let’s put it this way: no unannounced visitors,” Preston Cherouny, who runs business operations for the church, said in an interview. “It was just a typical Sunday around here.”For all the intrigue his investigation has spawned, Mr. Mueller — a lifelong Republican and consummate WASP whose nickname in government was “Bobby three sticks” — led a secretive but ordinary life, bucking the spotlight that came with being painted as a liberal fantasy or conservative boogeyman.The sightings were sporadic. Around the time he indicted over a dozen Russian nationals for election interference, Mr. Mueller was spotted in a 7-Eleven store by the National Zoo wearing Adidas running pants and a cinched-waist parka.Last September, Mr. Mueller and his wife, Ann Standish, were seen at a spacious help desk at Georgetown’s Apple Store, peering curiously into a personal MacBook, just days after Paul Manafort, Mr. Trump’s former campaign chairman, pleaded guilty and signed a plea agreement with the special counsel’s team.The Apple employee who fixed Mr. Mueller’s computer told a reporter that he was stunned when he walked out of the back of the store to see his newest client.“Come on. I read the paper,” said the employee, who would only identify himself as Yit, citing concerns over Apple’s privacy policies. “Both of them were really nice. It was just business.”In January, as Mr. Mueller closed in on indicting Roger J. Stone Jr., he visited Stohlman Subaru in Northern Virginia. The dealership declined to divulge details about its customers or transactions, but a person familiar with Mr. Mueller’s negotiation said he either bought or leased a new Forester, the same model he drove to the office last week in the final days of his investigation.At work, Mr. Mueller nurtured a sense of detachment. As the investigation unfolded, he stayed tucked in his own office outside his prosecutors’ cubicles, drifting in and out of his team’s windowless conference rooms and spartan open office space. Never one for small talk, he rarely sat in on interviews, sneaking into the room toward the end to sit in silently, or stopping in merely to say hello to a witness, letting his prosecutors speak for him.When he met with Mr. Trump’s lawyers, he entered the room through a digital lockpad and sat in the middle of a conference room table, his investigators seated to his sides, according to John M. Dowd, one of the lawyers. Mr. Mueller, when he did engage, would deploy corporate idioms like “we need to square the circle” — or merely sit in silence, letting his team handle negotiations over an interview with the president.In the absence of interviews and public statements, a rapt public began to search for clues in Mr. Mueller’s appearance, turning the square-jawed investigator into a political Rorschach test. His Sea Ranch-branded baseball caps, his tailored suits and the Casio watch he and other investigators sported were pored over much in the same way that Melania Trump’s clothes are examined for evidence of her concealed politics.“He is very comfortable in a Brooks Brothers,” Garrett M. Graff, a journalist who wrote a book about Mr. Mueller’s tenure at the F.B.I., said in an interview. “That carries through in a lot of what he does. He’s deeply conservative. Not in a political sense, but in a traditional sense.”His weekly visits to Salt &amp; Pepper, an aggressively unhip restaurant in Washington’s Palisades neighborhood near the gated community where he lives, were often set against the backdrop of explosive news his team generated. As he dined with confidants, including Kenneth L. Wainstein, his former chief of staff at the F.B.I., Mueller-related news coverage would often be flashing on a large flat-screen TV nearby.One evening, Mr. Mueller was eating and talking animatedly at the same time that his spokesman released a rare statement refuting a BuzzFeed News article about interactions between Mr. Trump and Michael D. Cohen, the president’s former personal lawyer.Even last Friday, as Washington hummed with anticipation over what might be included in his report, Mr. Mueller stuck to his routine. Hours after handing the report to Attorney General William P. Barr, Mr. Mueller was again in one of his favorite booths, at ease and laughing, drinking white wine and nibbling on appetizers and complimentary breadsticks, according to his waiter.As the official part of the work winds down — CNN spotted Mr. Mueller driving into his office building on Monday — speculation abounds about what Mr. Mueller might do next, and his office has offered few clues: “The special counsel will be concluding his service in the coming days,” Peter Carr, his spokesman, said in an email. Mr. Carr declined to comment further about what might come next.He has options. He could sign a tell-all book deal, like James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director who has since become a vocal opponent of the president. He could pick up where he left off on the paid speaking circuit, talking again to groups like the Nuclear Energy Institute or the Insurance Information Institute. He could become a Twitter clearinghouse for commentary on the investigations still encircling Mr. Trump.Or he could return to WilmerHale, the white-collar Washington law firm where he occupied a 12th-floor corner office in the years leading up to his appointment as special counsel, defending clients such as the National Football League and Sony. Three co-workers left the firm with him to become prosecutors in the Russia investigation.Jamie S. Gorelick, who worked with Mr. Mueller at WilmerHale, said he was unassuming and “wickedly funny” as a partner at the firm, giving advice to lawyers on particularly complex cases. If Mr. Mueller returns, she said, he will most likely continue with his previous specialties: overseeing investigations for corporations and nonprofits and helping with cases related to cybersecurity.Mr. Graff, who has dined out casually with Mr. Mueller, surmised that he might surprise with a memoir, wanting a last word on his life’s work.According to people who have known him for years, taking such a public route is unlikely. Mr. Mueller is not part of the gossipy Washington ecosystem of dinner parties and book celebrations — in a Time 2018 Person of the Year runner-up profile, Mr. Mueller was described as “the kind of man who flicks the lights off and on at his home to inform guests that it’s time to leave a social gathering.”Cristina C. Arguedas, a lawyer who knows Mr. Mueller from when he was a young prosecutor and she was a public defender, described him as too regimented to break course now.“I would bet you my house that you’re never going to see him again in the public eye,” Ms. Arguedas said, unless he is subpoenaed to testify to Congress, which is already a topic of discussion among Democrats. “I think he resumes his civilian life as if he didn’t have the most important job in the country for the last two years.”Eric Schmitt contributed reporting.

Supported byBy Michael Schwirtz and Sheera FrenkelCampaigning for Ukraine’s presidential election had just begun to heat up when the authorities announced they had thwarted a Russian plot to use Facebook to undermine the vote.Unlike the 2016 interference in the United States, which centered on fake Facebook pages created by Russians in faraway St. Petersburg, the operation in Ukraine this year had a clever twist. It tried to circumvent Facebook’s new safeguards by paying Ukrainian citizens to give a Russian agent access to their personal pages.In a video confession published by the S.B.U., Ukraine’s domestic intelligence service, a man it identified as the Russian agent said that he resided in Kiev, Ukraine’s capital, and that his Russian handlers had ordered him “to find people in Ukraine on Facebook who wanted to sell their accounts or temporarily rent them out.”“As I learned,” said the man, who was not identified by name, “their goal was to use those accounts to publish political ads or to plant fake articles.”The operation suggested that Russia’s tactics had evolved somewhat over the last three years. The change, it seems, is partly a response to security measures adopted by Facebook after the 2016 campaign in the United States when, officials say, the social media company was used to widely disseminate disinformation and inflame partisan tensions.The question ahead of the election in Ukraine, scheduled for Sunday, is whether Facebook has evolved as well.The vote presents Facebook with an opportunity to take what it has learned and confront Russia over what the Kremlin considers its home turf. Ukraine has long been a testing ground for all manner of so-called Russian active measures, and was among the first hit with the kind of electoral manipulation later deployed against the United States, France and other countries.Facebook officials insist the company is ready. It fired an opening salvo in January when it announced the takedown of a coordinated effort involving nearly 150 fake accounts, which appeared to mimic a disinformation campaign by Russia’s Internet Research Agency during the 2018 midterm election campaign in the United States. On Tuesday, the company announced another takedown involving nearly 2,000 Russia-linked pages, groups and accounts, some involved in posting disinformation about Ukraine.But officials and candidates in Ukraine complain that despite some improvements, Facebook’s response to what should have been an obvious threat has been sluggish.A new tool meant to increase transparency around political advertising on Facebook came online only on March 18, less than two weeks before the election. Some candidates have said they found it difficult to protect their accounts with the company’s most basic security feature: the little blue check mark Facebook uses to help users distinguish genuine pages from impostors.“What they have done so far amounts to a dereliction of duty,” said Nina Jankowicz, a global fellow at the Washington-based Wilson Center’s Kennan Institute, who focuses on Russian disinformation.“They’ve known about the election in Ukraine this spring for years,” she said of Facebook officials. “There is no reason so many things should be happening last minute.”Although the personal account of Volodymyr Zelensky, the presidential front-runner, was verified quickly, the Facebook and Instagram pages for his campaign were not, Mr. Zelensky’s team said, despite its requests.Mikhail Fedorov, who handles digital strategy for Mr. Zelensky’s campaign, said its Facebook pages had been drowned out by fakes almost indistinguishable from the real site.Facebook representatives, he said, had been slow to respond when the campaign tried to report a problem. Facebook said it had removed pages impersonating Mr. Zelensky’s that were reported to the company.Out of frustration, Mr. Fedorov said, the campaign created its own anti-sabotage tool, which he called “a mobile online group,” that alerts Mr. Zelensky’s followers to the presence of a fake account and urges them to overwhelm it with supportive comments.Few doubt that Ukraine is in Russia’s cross hairs. Ahead of the election, activity has surged from Russian-linked bots and a proliferation of fake accounts impersonating the candidates, “aimed at the provoking of hostilities between Ukrainians in social networks,” Facebook in particular, said Serhii Demediuk, the chief of Ukraine’s cyber police. He said his office also had observed an uptick in requests on dark web forums for unauthorized remote access to Ukraine’s voter registry.“The analysis of these incidents indicates that a significant number of those publications are originating from the territory of the Russian Federation,” he said.No amount of security is 100 percent insurmountable, particularly against Russia, which has devoted enormous resources to its global disinformation efforts, said Nathaniel Gleicher, the head of cybersecurity policy at Facebook.“The threat actors are going to continue to innovate and try to find new ways to route around security that we put in place,” he said in an interview. “But each security protocol we put in place slows down the actors, forces them to work harder and gives your team more chances to catch them.”Far from reacting slowly to the threats facing Ukraine, he said, Facebook has been active in confronting disinformation campaigns emanating from Russia since at least April last year. That is when the company announced it had closed 135 Facebook and Instagram accounts controlled by Russia’s Internet Research Agency, which has been linked to the 2016 election tampering in the United States.The effort to pay Ukrainian citizens to host political advertisements and fake articles on their personal pages appeared tailor-made to circumvent new security measures designed to prevent foreigners from purchasing political advertisements in Ukraine and elsewhere.In his video confession, the man identified as the Russian agent, whose face was blurred to conceal his identity, said that the goal was to disseminate political advertisements in support of pro-Russian candidates as well as “publish fake news or kompromat” about candidates Moscow opposed.“The plan was for the culprit to manipulate the consciousness of the Ukrainian voters in the interest of the Kremlin,” the S.B.U. said in a statement about the case.An S.B.U. spokeswoman declined to provide further details. While Ukrainian officials are often quick to demonize Russia, the case aligns with what Facebook officials say will be the future of disinformation.Increasingly, Facebook officials say, disinformation will be spread not by foreign actors, but by citizens looking to sway the opinions of fellow citizens. Political parties will hire professional companies to spread false news about their opponents, using fake accounts and bots. And foreigners who want to meddle with a country’s elections will look to hire people locally, through bribery or trickery, to do their bidding.During the midterm elections in the United States, Facebook already faced some of those problems. Americans spread disinformation to fellow Americans, and a group of Democratic technical experts decided to experiment with swaying the Alabama Senate race.Some Ukrainian officials warn that the risk of disinformation campaigns from within the country are as high or higher than those directed by Russia.“I am more concerned with the negative campaigning from another candidate than from Russia,” said Aleksey Ryabchin, a member of Parliament from the party of Yulia Tymoshenko, another presidential candidate.By itself, Facebook can do little to completely insulate Ukraine from election interference. The country is under siege by Russia both on the internet and in the physical world. Russia essentially controls two separatist regions in eastern Ukraine, where a war that began in 2014 has claimed about 13,000 lives. In recent years, cyberattacks believed to have originated in Russia have shut down power plants and transportation infrastructure.During the last presidential election in 2014, hackers breached the servers of Ukraine’s election commission and programmed its website to publish a fake result when the polls closed. Ukrainian officials thwarted the scheme at the last minute, although Russian government television reported the fake result anyway.The Kremlin has denied involvement in efforts to manipulate elections in Ukraine or anywhere else, though officials have said they have no ability to prevent patriotic-minded Russians from attempting to do so.“These are the rules of the game. If it’s an open platform then of course there will be people who will try to use this platform for their purposes,” said Dmitry Polyanskiy, Russia’s first deputy permanent representative to the United Nations.“We can’t be responsible for any publication on Facebook or on Twitter,” he said, “and we do not believe in these conspiracy theories that somewhere people are sitting and clicking mice putting these publications on the web.”An earlier version of this article misspelled the surname of the person who handles digital strategy for the campaign of Volodymyr Zelensky, the front-runner in Ukraine’s election. He is Mikhail Fedorov, not Fedotov.

Supported byLet us help you start your day. By Penn Bullock(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning. Venezuela’s opposition leader vows to return to the country, India and Pakistan are still at loggerheads and we go inside the Trump-Kim talks. Here’s the latest: Venezuela’s opposition leader, Juan Guaidó, has toured South America for much of the past week. Defying a government-imposed travel ban, he met with the far-right president of Brazil and the center-left president of Ecuador, among others, to demonstrate the broad international support for his claim to be the legitimate leader of Venezuela. Each day he spends out the country, though, he risks losing the unity of opposition parties, already reeling after President Nicolás Maduro last month reduced Mr. Guaidó’s promised “aid avalanche” at the border to a few flakes. Mr. Guaidó had vowed to re-enter Venezuela as those aid shipments broke through Mr. Maduro’s blockade. He has now set a deadline of this morning for his return. Mr. Maduro has threatened to have him arrested. Bigger picture: With Mr. Maduro firmly controlling the borders, and defections from his military so far a trickle, the opposition is realizing that the government’s rule appears to be more durable than Mr. Guaidó had painted it.Looking ahead: The secretary general of the Organization of American States, Luis Almagro, who is one of Mr. Guaidó’s chief international supporters, softened his demands on Mr. Maduro, saying he would not object to his running for office again in new elections if they were free and fair. The two nuclear-armed neighbors exchanged artillery fire on Saturday, killing at least five civilians and two soldiers and making it clear that hostilities over the disputed Kashmir region are hardly over.The recent flare-up, with both sides accusing the other of firing first, came just a day after Pakistan returned a captured Indian pilot as a good-will gesture.Dispute: Independent security analysts continue to question India’s claim that it targeted a “large number” of terrorists at a major training camp in Pakistan last week. Satellite imagery of the area showed India “didn’t hit their targets,” according to a think tank in Washington.Go deeper: After an aging Indian warplane was shot down by Pakistan, New Delhi’s military preparedness is under renewed scrutiny. The Indian military is in such a troubled state that, according to government estimates, if intense warfare broke out tomorrow its troops would have enough ammunition for only 10 days.On the ground: Kashmir’s complicated history, tugged in different directions by two muscular powers, has left its local population with a dark future and under the constant threat of death.The nuclear talks in Vietnam last week between President Trump and Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader, were doomed before they even started, with no basic starting point established and  some of Mr. Trump’s aides questioning whether they should happen. Banking on the force of his own personality and their rapport, Mr. Trump offered Mr. Kim the same deal North Korea has rejected for a quarter-century: total nuclear disarmament in exchange for full sanctions relief. For his part, Mr. Kim miscalculated that Mr. Trump might accept a more modest offer. In an effort to maintain Mr. Trump’s détente with Mr. Kim, the Pentagon will hold off on large-scale military exercises with South Korea this spring, though a limited version is still expected to go forward. Mr. Trump first suspended the military exercises after his initial meeting with Mr. Kim last year, surprising the Pentagon. Another angle: North Korean hackers kept up attacks against European and American targets last week even during the meeting, cybersecurity researchers said.If the French language has a fortress, it is the imposing Académie Française, so exclusive that some of the greatest French writers have been turned away. Since the 17th century, members known as the Immortals have updated the definitive dictionary of French in an effort to protect the language against such ravages as the “deadly snobbery of Anglo-American.” But lately the academy has struggled to fill vacancies, a paralysis that reflects France’s own struggle to adapt to the 21st century. “We’re the reflection of the society, and it’s a society that’s questioning itself,” one member said.Saudi Arabia: Walid Fitaihi, a U.S. citizen initially detained at the Ritz Carlton hotel in Riyadh as part of what the Saudi government has billed as a crackdown on corruption, has been imprisoned without any public charges or trial since 2017. His friend says he has also been tortured — including being shocked with electricity and whipped.Britain: Landlord checks on a prospective tenant’s immigration status lead to racial discrimination and violate human rights, a court found. The ruling was a blow to Prime Minister Theresa May, who has championed “hostile environment” policies to deter illegal immigration.China: The country’s vast detention program for Muslims has required more and more police officers. Some of them are being recruited from the very ethnic groups that are being targeted.Syria: The Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons found “reasonable grounds” that chlorine weapons were used in the assault on the town of Douma last year that killed 43 people. The U.S. and its allies blamed President Bashar al-Assad for the attack and launched punitive airstrikes against government targets at the time.Turkey: A suburb made up of Disney-style chateaus is no magic kingdom — it  is unfinished, in bankruptcy and much criticized for its architecture — but the minicastles are still for sale. Chris Grayling: The political survival of Britain’s transport minister has baffled many who accuse him of staggering incompetence, but his loyalty to Mrs. May has protected him. Medicine: In the U.S., a colossal battle is underway over the regulation of fecal transplants, a revolutionary procedure used to treat life-threatening problems. Jeff Bezos: For years, Amazon’s chief executive kept a low profile. But in recent weeks, his discreet, focused life has become tangled in Hollywood’s gossip machine.Kidfluencers: Brands like Mattel and Crayola are striking lucrative deals with toddlers and tweens with large social media followings (some deals can fetch up to $50,000).In memoriam: Zhores Alferov, a Russian physicist and committed communist who shared the Nobel Prize in Physics in 2000 for research that underpinned inventions integral to modern life like solar cells and cellphones, has died at 88.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Start the week with a bracing, spicy dinner of vegetarian mapo tofu.If you have friends or loved ones who are survivors of sexual abuse or assault, here are ways you can help their recovery.Traveling while holding down a full-time job sounds too good to be true. But it can be done.On Tuesday, the end of the women’s ready-to-wear season in Paris, the last of Karl Lagerfeld’s enormous sets for Chanel will be revealed — the final gesture of a man who shaped fashion as we know it. He died on Feb. 19.Though many designers have created dramatic shows — most notably Alexander McQueen, John Galliano when he headed his own brand and currently Thom Browne — none reached the extremes of Mr. Lagerfeld. He once imported (and then returned) a Swedish iceberg, had a rocket launch and created a sandy beach with real surf — all within the glass-roofed confines of the Grand Palais.Though I was never as big a fan of these fantasy moments as many of my peers (I believed the money could be better spent elsewhere, like on a charitable foundation), they were the markers of a time that is coming to a close, symbols of a vision that bridged the couture and Instagram eras.Get ready for the farewell hurrah. Given that Mr. Lagerfeld never did anything by half measures, it is bound to be a doozy.Vanessa Friedman, the chief fashion critic at The Times, wrote today’s Back Story. Follow her on Twitter for live updates from this week’s show.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.

Supported byLet us help you start your day.By Alisha Haridasani Gupta and Melina Delkic(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning. Chinese officials gather for an annual policy session, Huawei prepares to challenge the U.S. in court and Michael Jackson fans jump to his defense. Here’s the latest: The annual session of the National People’s Congress begins today and trade, particularly with the U.S., is expected to dominate much of the agenda. The Trump administration is close to signing a trade deal with China, according to people with knowledge of the talks, that would roll back tariffs on both sides of the Pacific in exchange for changes to some of China’s economic policies that prevent American companies from operating there.Case in point: The National People’s Congress will likely approve a string of sweeping new foreign investment rules aimed at addressing the issues that the U.S. and other Western countries have repeatedly raised with Beijing, including easing the transfer of technology to Chinese companies.Criticism: The new law lacks any details on enforcement and some experts suggest it doesn’t go far enough.Meng Wanzhou, Huawei’s chief financial officer and the daughter of the company’s founder, has been staying at her luxurious six-bedroom house in Vancouver since she was granted bail in December. And she has been allowed to go shopping or even travel to nearby Richmond, albeit while under surveillance.Her conditions contrast sharply with those of two Canadian men who were detained in China in apparent retaliation for Ms. Meng’s arrest and have been held in secret locations for months, a fact that has touched on a nerve among locals.The Chinese authorities on Monday accused both men of espionage, ratcheting up tensions between the two countries, just days before a Canadian court is set to begin hearing whether Ms. Meng should be extradited to the U.S., where she is wanted on fraud charges.In other Huawei news: The company is set to file a lawsuit against the American government for banning its federal agencies from using its products, according to two people familiar with the matter. The case could undermine the Trump administration’s campaign to shut out Huawei from the global market.Jerrold Nadler, a powerful lawmaker in the House of Representatives, issued scores of demands for documents from President Trump’s cabinet, aides, businesses and associates. The letters reveal a broad Democratic investigation into possible obstruction of justice, corruption and abuse of power by Mr. Trump and his administration.Mr. Nadler did not mention the word impeachment, but twice in the last 50 years, the committee he serves on has drawn up impeachment articles based on such themes.Other congressional committees are looking into Russian influence on the 2016 elections.Scope: The demands went to 81 agencies, individuals and other entities, including the Trump Organization, the Trump campaign, the Trump Foundation, the presidential inaugural committee, the White House, the Justice Department, the F.B.I. and dozens of the president’s closest aides.The topics covered include the firing of James Comey as F.B.I. director; attempts to remove the special counsel, Robert Mueller; and Mr. Trump’s apparent dangling of pardons and threatening of witnesses.What’s next: Mr. Nadler could follow up with subpoenas to compel testimony, but those could be challenged in court — meaning potentially long delays.Juan Guaidó, the opposition leader, returned to the country this week after defying a travel ban, possibly setting up a showdown with President Nicolás Maduro.“We just got through passport control and will head where our people are!” he posted on Twitter from an airport near Caracas. It was not immediately clear whether he would be detained by government security forces. But Mr. Maduro’s government has said Mr. Guaidó violated restrictions on his travel and could face arrest.Response: As Mr. Guaidó flew into the country, large military contingents surrounded the Simón Bolívar Airport. A number of European diplomats had come to the airport to offer their support. And on Twitter, John Bolton, President Trump’s national security adviser, warned: “Any threats or acts against his safe return will be met with a strong and significant response from the United States and the international community.”Context: When Mr. Guaidó left Venezuela on Feb. 23 to help bring much-needed aid into the country, it wasn’t clear whether he would be allowed to return. He has become a growing challenge to the Maduro government since he declared himself interim president in January.New Zealand: Mark Taylor, who joined the Islamic State in 2014 before deciding to escape the terrorist organization in December, won’t lose his citizenship but will face charges if he returns home, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said, outlining a milder approach than the United States’ or Britain’s toward the group’s former fighters.Hong Kong: A native man who killed his girlfriend in Taiwan and returned home can’t be charged because Hong Kong doesn’t have an extradition agreement with Taiwan. The dilemma has prompted calls to re-examine the city’s legal cooperation with other jurisdictions, including mainland China, but critics worry that a change would enable Beijing to expand its control over the former British colony.Ted Baker: Ray Kelvin, the founder and chief executive of the British fashion chain, resigned after current and former employees accused him of inappropriate behavior, including trying to massage people in the office and asking employees for sex.North Korea: As President Trump met with Kim Jong-un in Vietnam, North Korean hackers continued attacking American and European businesses, including banks, utilities, and oil and gas companies, according to a report by the cybersecurity company McAfee. The finding further complicates the two nations’ denuclearization negotiations.Tornadoes: Rescue workers in the U.S. rushed to search for survivors after a cluster of storms ripped through the Southeast, from Alabama into Florida and Georgia, killing at least 23 people and leaving behind a trail of destruction.Egypt: The country freed a prominent photojournalist, Mahmoud Abou Zeid, who spent five and a half years in prison for taking pictures during 2013 protests in Cairo after the military’s takeover of the country. Mr. Abou Zeid vowed to continue his work despite a five-year probation during which he has to spend every night at the police station.Google: After conducting an internal wage equity study, the company found it was underpaying more men than women for similar work, a surprising conclusion that contrasted with the broader experience of women working in Silicon Valley.Napalm: Our tech columnist Kevin Roose weighs in on a fierce debate rippling through Silicon Valley over whether technology companies should work with the U.S. military, citing one of “the most notorious military contracts of the past century” — Dow Chemical’s decision to produce napalm during the Vietnam War.Michael Jackson: After the debut on Sunday of the first half of the HBO documentary “Leaving Neverland,” which includes allegations of sexual abuse against the pop star, Jackson’s fans came out in full force with what they viewed as evidence exonerating the singer. The director of the documentary called them “the Islamic State of fandom.”T. rex: The dinosaur has helped foster a surge in paleontology over the last 20 years, with rising numbers of researchers and new fossils, as well as increasing sophistication in techniques used to study finds. Among the discoveries around the predator potentate were its size range (early tyrannosaurs were as small as chickens) and its short life span.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Celebrate Mardi Gras with beignets and a muffuletta.Traveling can wreak havoc on your fitness, but our experts suggest six products to help you work out on the road.Your collectibles, from fine wines or shrunken heads, may be worth more than you think. Here are five ways to figure out the value of your assets.King cake is no ordinary cake. A Mardi Gras tradition, the circular pastry shines with stripes of sugared New Orleans Carnival colors: purple for justice, gold for power and green for faith.It’s stuffed with fruit and pecans — and a plastic baby that brings luck to the finder (along with the responsibility to provide the next year’s cake).The notion of embedding an object in cake dates at least to the Roman Empire. In the Saturnalia, a predecessor of Christmas, it was not a plastic baby but a fava bean. Whoever received the slice containing the bean ruled the day.But the Romans also associated fava beans with death. That might be because of a genetic disorder most common in the Mediterranean, which creates an often lethal bean allergy.So perhaps eating a cake with a fava bean was a morbid joke, a moment on the edge, or what could be thought of as letting the good times roll.James K. Williamson wrote today’s Back Story. Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.Alisha Haridasani Gupta writes the Morning Briefing.  @alisha__g Melina Delkic is a senior staff editor.  @MelinaDelkic 

Supported byGood Thursday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)Aramco, Saudi Arabia’s giant oil company, announced yesterday that it had bought 70 percent of the kingdom’s state-controlled petrochemical company, Sabic, for $69.1 billion.This is an alternative to an Aramco I.P.O. The deal for a majority stake in Sabic will provide a windfall for its majority owner: Saudi Arabia’s sovereign wealth fund. Aramco’s postponed plan to sell some of itself on a public stock market would have accomplished something similar.Saudi Arabia now has the money it wanted to modernize its economy. The kingdom’s crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, hopes to fund a campaign to wean Saudi Arabia off oil, by investing in new technology and clean energy. Aramco has now given his government the billions required to do so.And banks still get a gusher of fees. Financial firms that had worked on an Aramco I.P.O. pivoted to advisory roles on the Sabic deal, and many will arrange what’s expected to be a huge bond sale to help finance the transaction.Expect a peek into Aramco’s books. As part of a bond offering, the oil company will have to disclose its financial operations to potential investors. It’s unclear how much it will reveal, but any look at its huge oil reserves is sure to be of interest.The planemaker explained yesterday what it plans to do to upgrade its 737 Max 8 planes, after two fatal crashes in recent months raised global concerns about its safety.Pilots will have more control to override anti-stall software and new alerts, the company said at an event at its factory in Renton, Wash. They will also receive additional training.Boeing defended its Max 8 design process. “In general the process has worked and continues to work, and we see no reason to overhaul the process,” an unnamed Boeing official told the media. (A spokesman later told the WaPo that the comment referred to the plane’s development process, not its safety certifications.)Senators raised questions about safety checks for the Max 8 at a hearing yesterday, pressing federal regulators on all aspects of the process:• The transportation secretary, Elaine Chao, called the current situation “troubling.”• The acting F.A.A. chief, Daniel Elwell, said delegating authority was crucial. Otherwise, he added, the agency needed an extra 10,000 employees and $1.8 billion to oversee safety certification.• The Transportation Department’s inspector general, Calvin Scovel, said his office would conduct an audit into the F.A.A.’s certification of the Max 8.But lawmakers remain skeptical about the regulatory process. “The F.A.A. decided to do safety on the cheap, which is neither cheap nor safe,” Senator Richard Blumenthal, Democrat of Connecticut, said.American and Chinese officials continued to piece together a trade deal during talks in Beijing this week, but progress remains relatively slow.“We have moved forward in all areas,” one unidentified senior U.S. administration official told Reuters. The source said that in particular progress has been made on the practice of forced transfer of American technology to Chinese companies, a central issue for the Trump administration.But “we aren’t yet where we want to be,” the official conceded. The FT adds that “even agreement in less controversial areas — such as increased purchases of U.S. exports and improved market access for foreign investors — is proving difficult to pin down.”Senior U.S. officials arrive in Beijing today to continue the talks. Robert Lighthizer, the U.S. trade representative, and Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, will seek to make more progress. Next week, Vice Premier Liu He of China will head to Washington.The timing of a deal looks increasingly uncertain. “It could go to May, June, no one knows. It could happen in April, we don’t know,” a U.S. official told Reuters.More: Senate Republicans warned President Trump that his tariffs could plunge the U.S. into a recession ahead of the 2020 election.In a last-ditch effort to gain support for her Brexit plan, Prime Minister Theresa May yesterday offered to resign as long as her agreement is approved, Stephen Castle of the NYT writes.Her offer came as Parliament tried to sideline her by coming up with its own plan for Britain’s exit from the E.U. “But when lawmakers held a series of nonbinding votes on Wednesday night on eight different options for Britain’s future relationship with the E.U., none mustered a majority,” Mr. Castle writes.“If Mrs. May’s plan is approved, the battle over the details of Brexit will be fought first in a leadership struggle in the Conservative Party and then by all the other parties and factions that have scrapped with one another throughout the last two years.”But while her deal is gaining some support, many lawmakers are still holding out. Mrs. May will need to win the support of about 70 lawmakers who have already voted against the agreement — twice. Mr. Castle writes that it is “a very tall order.”More: The fund manager Mark Mobius said that the state of Britain’s debt and currency make it look “like an emerging market now.”Behind the Trump administration’s decision this week to seek a complete rejection of the Affordable Care Act was a political wager: Can President Trump appease supporters by upholding a 2016 campaign pledge?Mr. Trump made his decision on Monday after a heated debate in the White House, the NYT reports. Egging on the president were the acting White House chief of staff, Mick Mulvaney, and a top policy aide, Joe Grogan. Opposing the move were the White House counsel, Pat Cipollone; the secretary of health and human services, Alex Azar; and the attorney general, Bill Barr.The argument for taking on Obamacare, according to the NYT: “Mr. Trump has declared that he has kept his promises, Mr. Mulvaney and Mr. Grogan argued, and as a candidate he campaigned on repealing the health law. His base of voters would love it.”Republican lawmakers are worried. They lost control of the House last year largely because of voter concerns about health care. “We need a plan, and right now we don’t have one,” one unnamed Republican senator told Politico.Others are betting against Mr. Trump. Legal scholars think that Chief Justice John Roberts would again defend the law if the matter heads to the Supreme Court. And recent polls show that independent voters don’t approve of Mr. Trump’s handling of health care.More health care news: A federal judge blocked Kentucky and Arkansas from imposing work requirements on Medicaid, a blow to Republican efforts to reshape the program. A British review of Huawei found “significant” security problems with the Chinese company’s telecommunications equipment, Adam Satariano of the NYT reports.There are “underlying defects” in Huawei’s software engineering and security processes, according to the report, which was released this morning. They could be exploited by governments or independent hackers, creating a risk to national security.The report did not call for an outright ban of Huawei equipment, and “described a company with poor engineering practices and problems stemming from those engineering flaws, more than one operating at the orders of Chinese authorities,” Mr. Satariano writes. The findings were endorsed by Britain’s top cybersecurity agency.The conclusions buttress the Trump administration’s argument that Huawei is a grave risk to national security. Yet allies have resisted that push.They still want to manage the risks of using Huawei hardware rather than blocking it outright, to avoid losing momentum in building new high-speed wireless data networks. Earlier this year, the head of Britain’s National Cyber Security Center, Ciaran Martin, said that a complete ban wasn’t necessary.Investors increasingly think that as the global economy slows down, the Fed will have to cut interest rates. Officials at the central bank say that’s not in the cards — at least, not yet, Nick Timiraos of the WSJ reports.• The most recent sign of a rate cut, according to some investors, was last week’s yield-curve inversion. That was when yields on long-term Treasury notes fell below those of short-term ones, which is often interpreted as a harbinger of recession.• But some Fed officials urge patience. “I’d need to see an inversion of some magnitude and/or some duration, and right now we don’t have either,” Bob Kaplan, the president of the Dallas Fed, told the WSJ.• “If you see an inversion that goes on for several months … that’s a different kettle of fish,” he added.• The San Francisco Fed president, Mary Daly, said in a speech earlier this week that she’s “not freaked out” by the yield curve, and “hopefully businesses and market participants won’t freak out” either.More: The European Central Bank is considering how to help the continent’s banks as interest rates look to remain subzero. Swedbank fired Birgitte Bonneson as its C.E.O. today amid allegations that the Swedish lender was involved in Russian money-laundering.Chris Schaepe was ousted from Lightspeed Venture Partners after telling the firm he had hired the consultant at the heart of the college admissions scandal, though he has not been charged.Tim Throsby will step down as the head of Barclays’ investment bank.JPMorgan Chase reportedly plans to lay off hundreds of workers in its asset-management and wealth divisions.Deals• The pending I.P.O.s of Lyft and Pinterest highlight the debate over dual-class shares that let founders control companies with relatively small stock holdings. (DealBook)• Pimco and Elliott Management are reportedly pitching California lawmakers on a restructuring plan for PG&amp;E, the bankrupt utility. (Bloomberg)• Commerzbank employees are reportedly gearing up to oppose a merger with Deutsche Bank. (Bloomberg)• Casper, the mattress company, raised $100 million from Target and other investors at a valuation of $1.1 billion. (Bloomberg)• Bustle Digital, which owns Gawker, agreed to buy The Outline, a struggling online publisher. (Recode)Politics and policy• President Trump is getting exactly what he wants from the U.S. economy — just as economic forecasters are predicting a slowdown. (NYT)• The Supreme Court heard arguments on whether to curb the power of administrative agencies like the Department of Veterans Affairs. (NYT)• Stephen Moore, the economic commentator whom Mr. Trump plans to nominate to the Fed, owes $75,000 in unpaid federal taxes and penalties. (NYT)• The House Oversight and Reform Committee is seeking 10 years’ worth of Mr. Trump’s financial records from an accounting firm. (Politico)• The Trump administration has reportedly strengthened its support for Israel in part because the shale boom has made the U.S. less dependent on oil imports. (FT)Tech• Facebook will ban white nationalist content from its platforms. Related: why video games are fertile ground for white nationalist recruitment. (NYT, NYT Op-Ed)• More on Facebook: Here’s a peek inside the growth machine that gave it more than a billion users. (FT)• Microsoft seized 99 websites that it said were used by Iranian hackers to try to steal sensitive information from people in Washington. (NYT)• President Trump met with Sundar Pichai of Google yesterday, and tweeted that the C.E.O. is “totally committed to the U.S. Military, not the Chinese Military.” (WSJ)• Flaws in Bitcoin may mean that it never bounces back to its heights. (Economist)• Millennials might not be giving up on car ownership after all. (Bloomberg Opinion)Best of the rest• A newly formed Nissan committee recommended overhauling the company’s board in order to move past the arrest of its former chairman, Carlos Ghosn. (NYT)• A New Jersey jury unanimously cleared Johnson &amp; Johnson in the latest trial over whether its talc products caused a consumer’s cancer. (NYT)• But a California jury awarded $80.3 million in damages to a man who it decided had contracted cancer from exposure to Bayer’s Roundup weedkiller. (WSJ)• Bill McGlashan, who was ousted from TPG over the college admission scandal, argued yesterday that he hadn’t actually done anything illegal — yet. (Recode)• The Chinese delivery company Meituan is so cheap, it’s changing how people eat. (Bloomberg Businessweek)• How a TripAdvisor worker helped hunt down a prolific robocaller. (Wired)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.

Supported byGood Thursday morning. (Was this email forwarded to you? Sign up here.)Facebook plans to start shifting people toward private messaging and away from the public broadcasting on which its business has been built, Mike Isaac of the NYT reports:• Mark Zuckerberg said yesterday that the company “would focus on private and encrypted communications, in which users message mostly smaller groups of people they know.”• “Unlike publicly shared posts that are kept as users’ permanent records, the communications could also be deleted after a certain period of time.”• “He said Facebook would achieve the shift partly by integrating Instagram, WhatsApp and Messenger so that users worldwide could easily message one another across the networks.”• That, Mr. Zuckerberg said, would make Facebook a “living room,” rather than a “town square.”Facebook’s declining public perception, fueled by fake news and data privacy scandals, is driving the shift. “Frankly we don’t currently have a strong reputation for building privacy protective services,” Mr. Zuckerberg said. To grow, and roll out new technologies like its reported cryptocurrency, the company needs to regain trust.But plenty of questions remain:• What’s the business model? Most of the company’s current profits come from openly sharing content and displaying targeted ads, which doesn’t fit with the privacy push. Mr. Zuckerberg argued that there were “all kinds of different commerce opportunities” available in a shift to privacy, but didn’t elaborate.• Should its platforms be integrated? It’s not clear that users want Instagram, WhatsApp and Messenger to be combined. And Facebook could find itself facing allegations of anti-competitive behavior by tying them together.• When will it happen? Mr. Zuckerberg had promised to improve Facebook’s privacy in the past and then was painfully slow to act. (A “Clear History” tool announced last year still hasn’t arrived.)____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin in New York, and Michael J. de la Merced and Jamie Condliffe in London.____________________________Huawei sued the U.S. government yesterday over a ban on government agencies using the Chinese telecom giant’s products because they could violate American national security.The U.S. says Huawei products are a security threat, and could be used by Chinese authorities to spy on telecom networks — though it has yet to produce supporting evidence. Washington has pushed wireless carriers to avoid using the company’s equipment, and urged other countries to follow suit.The lawsuit will force Washington to show its hand. “The U.S. Congress has repeatedly failed to produce any evidence to support its restrictions on Huawei products,” Guo Ping, Huawei’s rotating chairman, said in a statement.Huawei also claims it’s being unfairly singled out in an unconstitutional bill of attainder — where legislation singles out a person or entity for punishment without trial. Mr. Guo said that Congress was acting as “judge, jury and executioner.”But the strategy is risky. Its business practices and relationship with Beijing will be put under the microscope. And legal experts say the lawsuit on its own is unlikely to succeed: The Russian cybersecurity firm Kaspersky Lab lost a similar lawsuit two years ago.Federal regulators plan to roll back regulations on the country’s largest banks and financial firms, making it easier for them to gain approval to raise dividends or buy back their shares.The Fed will reboot its “stress tests” that banks undergo each year. In particular, the Fed won’t give “pass” or “fail” grades for the portion of the tests that measure banks’ ability to keep lending during an economic crisis.Big non-bank firms will also get an easier ride. A federal oversight panel will scrap the “systemically important financial institution” designation, which subjects non-bank firms like insurers and asset managers to intrusive oversight. (It’s largely symbolic: Only four firms had been labeled systemically important and all have successfully argued to shed that status.)This is part of the Trump administration’s effort to relax financial regulations imposed in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis. Officials have sided with the banking industry in arguing that Obama-era rules stifled lenders’ ability to make loans and continue to grow.But critics say it’s risky, and could lead to a less safe, less transparent financial system. Dennis Kelleher of Better Markets, a financial industry watchdog, told the NYT, “The markets are not going to have the full picture.”President Trump’s aggressive fights over trade are driven by a desire to narrow America’s trade deficit, which he sees as a sign of partners taking advantage of the U.S. But the gap between imports and exports has actually widened, leaving the U.S. with a record trade deficit of $891.3 billion, Jim Tankersley and Ana Swanson of the NYT write:• “The increase was driven by some factors outside Mr. Trump’s control, like a global economic slowdown and the relative strength of the United States dollar, both of which weakened overseas demand for American goods.”• “But the widening gap was also exacerbated by Mr. Trump’s $1.5 trillion tax cut,” they add, “and the trade war he escalated last year.”• “Economists have long warned that Mr. Trump’s tax cuts would ultimately exacerbate a trade deficit he has vowed to reduce, as Americans, flush with extra cash, bought more imported goods.”• “By his own metric, the president is failing to right America’s global trading relationships.”But economists aren’t panicking. “I’d rather live in a country that capital is trying to get into, rather than get out of,” Larry Summers, who led the National Economic Council under President Barack Obama, told the NYT. “The reason we have a trade deficit is people are investing in America.”Officials in Brussels have reportedly asked Prime Minister Theresa May to offer new proposals that would convince British lawmakers to back her Brexit deal within the next 48 hours, the BBC reports.“E.U. officials said they would work nonstop over the weekend if ‘acceptable’ ideas were received by Friday to break the deadlock” over issues tied to the Irish border, which have been the main sticking point, according to the broadcaster.But the U.K. has said it already put up “reasonable” proposals to satisfy lawmaker’s concerns about being tied to E.U. rules. (That said, Mrs. May has reportedly outlined steps “to develop technology to keep the Irish border open after Brexit” in the event of no deal, Bloomberg reports.)Unsurprisingly, the E.U. is pessimistic. “There’s increasing concern on the European side that any concessions the bloc would be prepared to give wouldn’t be sufficient to win a majority in the House of Commons,” according to Bloomberg, citing unidentified sources.More: Toyota says it might stop manufacturing cars in Britain in the event of a no-deal Brexit. And the O.E.C.D. has warned that a no-deal departure could cause a recession in the country.The Financial Stability Board will examine whether the $1.4 billion market for leveraged loans — those made to companies with low credit ratings or high debt loads — poses a risk to the global markets, Sam Fleming of the FT reports.• The F.S.B. will focus on collateralized loan obligations, which are bundles of leveraged loans that are sold off in tranches. The regulator “wants to identify the holders of C.L.O.s around the world and assess the risks that investors could pull money from exposed institutions during a severe downturn,” the FT writes.• Investors in C.L.O.s include banks, investment funds and insurers.• Randy Quarles, the chairman of the F.S.B., told the FT, “From a financial stability risk [point of view] we need to know more about that than we do, and we have set up a process at the F.S.B. to understand that.”• “Companies have been amassing cheap loans thanks to low interest rates and loosening lending standards, and in the U.S. nonfinancial corporate debt is now a higher share of gross domestic product than before the crisis,” Mr. Fleming writes.AT&amp;T is rushing to overhaul HBO, and the rest of what was Time Warner, to fight back against Netflix. But Bloomberg Businessweek has taken a look at how the “Game of Thrones” network and its parent company missed opportunities to dominate the streaming wars in the past:• In 1999, HBO’s chief information officer, Michael Gabriel, asked Jeff Bewkes, then the network’s C.E.O., how he wanted to reckon with the internet. “Bewkes wanted HBO to be all in on the internet when the time was right, Gabriel says, but he didn’t want to spend too much money or be premature,” Businessweek reports.• In 2007, “An idea spread through HBO: What if Time Warner bought Netflix? It would be the perfect marriage of art and science and give Time Warner enormous leverage over the downstream markets for TV shows and movies. The concept made its way up the chain of command, where it was duly slain.”• “In a December 2010 New York Times interview, Bewkes, who by then was overseeing all of Time Warner as C.E.O., weighed in on his competitor. ‘It’s a little bit like, Is the Albanian army going to take over the world?’ he said. ‘I don’t think so.’ ”• In the spring of 2014, HBO licensed its older shows to Amazon’s streaming service, giving the network fat fees. But, Businessweek reports, HBO’s in-house streaming team was upset at the arrangement. “Training people to go to Amazon Prime Video to watch classic HBO shows, they worried, could undermine the appeal of HBO’s own internet offerings.”• “HBO still doesn’t have much control over a key aspect of the direct-to-consumer streaming experience — the consumer.”Mike Turner will resign as a director of Barclays.The law firm Sullivan &amp; Cromwell has hired James Bromley from Cleary Gottlieb Steen &amp; Hamilton as a partner and co-head of its global restructuring group.Anne Dinning rejoined D.E. Shaw as a member of the hedge fund’s executive committee.Slate hired Jared Hohlt from New York magazine as its new editor in chief, succeeding Julia Turner.Deals• Aon won’t make a takeover bid for a rival insurance broker, Willis Towers Watson. (FT)• Sprint and T-Mobile have reportedly won the backing of the White House for their proposed merger, but have yet to win over the Justice Department or the F.C.C. (Fox Business)• Blackstone is reportedly close to raising $20 billion for its next big private equity fund. (Bloomberg)• Mario Batali has sold his stake in his restaurant empire to his business partners. (NYT)Politics and policy• Michael Cohen is said to have given the House Intelligence Committee evidence that shows President Trump’s lawyers made changes to a knowingly false written statement given to Congress. (NYT)• A House committee voted to advance a bill that would raise the federal minimum wage to $15 by 2024. (Axios)• Senator Chris Van Hollen, Democrat of Maryland, says he’s writing legislation that could prevent corporate insiders from selling shares within a certain time period after their companies announce a stock buyback. (CNBC)Tech• Congressional Democrats announced bills that would reinstate net neutrality rules. (Verge)• Facebook might be backing away from its plans to expand into China. (BuzzFeed News)• Just how likely to succeed is Tesla’s new online-only sales strategy? Also: The automaker is facing backlash in China from customers who won’t receive refunds to make up for new price cuts. (NYT, WSJ)• Amazon is closing its pop-up stores in the U.S., though it still has ambitious plans for physical retail. (NYT)Best of the rest• Meet Haven, the health care joint venture of Amazon, Berkshire Hathaway and JPMorgan Chase. (NYT)• The Fed says that the government shutdown slowed economic activity in some regions. (WSJ)• Carlos Ghosn is out of jail. What happens now? (NYT)• A ranking of the most visible brands in the U.S. placed the government bottom. (Axios)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.You can find live updates throughout the day at nytimes.com/dealbook.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.

Sophisticated surveillance, once the domain of world powers, is increasingly available on the private market. Smaller countries are seizing on the tools — sometimes for darker purposes.NSO, a private company based in Herzliya, Israel, has hired former government hackers to ply their trades for foreign governments.CreditCreditCorinna Kern for The New York TimesSupported byBy Mark Mazzetti, Adam Goldman, Ronen Bergman and Nicole PerlrothThe man in charge of Saudi Arabia’s ruthless campaign to stifle dissent went searching for ways to spy on people he saw as threats to the kingdom. He knew where to go: a secretive Israeli company offering technology developed by former intelligence operatives.It was late 2017 and Saud al-Qahtani — then a top adviser to Saudi Arabia’s powerful crown prince — was tracking Saudi dissidents around the world, part of his extensive surveillance efforts that ultimately led to the killing of the journalist Jamal Khashoggi. In messages exchanged with employees from the company, NSO Group, Mr. al-Qahtani spoke of grand plans to use its surveillance tools throughout the Middle East and Europe, like Turkey and Qatar or France and Britain.The Saudi government’s reliance on a firm from Israel, an adversary for decades, offers a glimpse of a new age of digital warfare governed by few rules and of a growing economy, now valued at $12 billion, of spies for hire.Today even the smallest countries can buy digital espionage services, enabling them to conduct sophisticated operations like electronic eavesdropping or influence campaigns that were once the preserve of major powers like the United States and Russia. Corporations that want to scrutinize competitors’ secrets, or a wealthy individual with a beef against a rival, can also command intelligence operations for a price, akin to purchasing off-the-shelf elements of the National Security Agency or the Mossad.[For more stories about the changing nature of warfare, sign up for the weekly At War newsletter.]NSO and a competitor, the Emirati firm DarkMatter, exemplify the proliferation of privatized spying. A monthslong examination by The New York Times, based on interviews with current and former hackers for governments and private companies and others as well as a review of documents, uncovered secret skirmishes in this burgeoning world of digital combat.The firms have enabled governments not only to hack criminal elements like terrorist groups and drug cartels but also in some cases to act on darker impulses, targeting activists and journalists. Hackers trained by United States spy agencies caught American businesspeople and human rights workers in their net. Cybermercenaries working for DarkMatter turned a prosaic household item, a baby monitor, into a spy device.The F.B.I. is investigating current and former American employees of DarkMatter for possible cybercrimes, according to four people familiar with the investigation. The inquiry intensified after a former N.S.A. hacker working for the company grew concerned about its activities and contacted the F.B.I., Reuters reported.NSO and DarkMatter also compete fiercely with each other, paying handsomely to lure top hacking talent from Israel, the United States and other countries, and sometimes pilfering recruits from each other, The Times found.The Middle East is the epicenter of this new era of privatized spying. Besides DarkMatter and NSO, there is Black Cube, a private company run by former Mossad and Israeli military intelligence operatives that gained notoriety after Harvey Weinstein, the disgraced Hollywood mogul, hired it to dig up dirt on his accusers. Psy-Group, an Israeli company specializing in social media manipulation, worked for Russian oligarchs and in 2016 pitched the Trump campaign on a plan to build an online army of bots and avatars to swing Republican delegate votes.Last year, a wealthy American businessman, Elliott Broidy, sued the government of Qatar and a New York firm run by a former C.I.A. officer, Global Risk Advisors, for what he said was a sophisticated breach of his company that led to thousands of his emails spilling into public. Mr. Broidy said that the operation was motivated by hard-nosed geopolitics: At the beginning of the Trump administration, he had pushed the White House to adopt anti-Qatar policies at the same time his firm was poised to receive hundreds of millions of dollars in contracts from the United Arab Emirates, the archrival to Qatar.A judge dismissed Mr. Broidy’s lawsuit, but suspicions have grown that Qatar had a hand in other operations, including the hacking and leaking of the emails of Yousef al-Otaiba, the influential Emirati ambassador in Washington.The rapid expansion of this global high-tech battleground, where armies of cybermercenaries clash, has prompted warnings of a dangerous and chaotic future.“Even the smallest country, on a very low budget, can have an offensive capability,” or initiate online attacks against adversaries, said Robert Johnston, founder of the cybersecurity firm Adlumin and a key investigator on Russia’s 2016 hacking of the Democratic National Committee. “Qatar and U.A.E. are going after each other, and that war is getting very, very bloody.“The barriers to entry in this space are getting lower and lower.”Before NSO helped the Saudi government track its adversaries outside the kingdom, and helped the Mexican government hunt drug kingpins, and earned hundreds of millions of dollars working for dozens of countries on six continents, the company consisted of two high school friends in northern Israel with one relatively mundane idea.Using technology developed by graduates of Intelligence Unit 8200 — Israel’s equivalent of the N.S.A.— Shalev Hulio and Omri Lavie started a company in 2008 that allowed cellphone firms to gain remote access to their customers’ devices to perform maintenance.Word spread to Western spy services, whose operatives spotted an opportunity. At the time, American and European officials were warning that Apple, Facebook, Google and other tech giants were developing technologies that allowed criminals and terrorists to communicate through encrypted channels indecipherable to intelligence and law enforcement agencies. They called the phenomenon “going dark.”Mr. Hulio and Mr. Lavie offered a way to circumvent this problem by hacking the end points of the communications — the phones themselves — after the data were decrypted.By 2011, NSO had developed its first prototype, a mobile surveillance tool the company called Pegasus. Like its namesake, the Greek mythological winged horse, NSO’s tool could do something seemingly impossible: collect vast amounts of previously inaccessible data from smartphones in the air without leaving a trace — including phone calls, texts, emails, contacts, location and any data transmitted over apps like Facebook, WhatsApp and Skype.“Once these companies invade your phone, they own it. You’re just carrying it around,” Avi Rosen of Kaymera Technologies, an Israeli cyberdefense company, said of NSO and its competitors.The company soon had its first client for Pegasus: the government of Mexico, which was engaged in a crackdown on drug cartels. By 2013, NSO had installed Pegasus at three Mexican agencies, according to emails obtained by The Times. The emails estimated that, altogether, the firm had sold the Mexican government $15 million worth of hardware and software. Mexico was paying the firm some $77 million to track a wide array of targets’ every move and swipe of their phone.NSO products were important to Mexico’s war against the cartels, according to four people familiar with how the Mexican government used Pegasus, speaking on the condition of anonymity to discuss intelligence matters. Mexican officials have credited Pegasus as instrumental in helping track and capture El Chapo, the famed drug kingpin who was convicted last month in New York and sentenced to life in a maximum-security prison.Soon enough, NSO was selling to governments throughout the world, with the company claiming clients on every continent except Antarctica. NSO products — particularly Pegasus — helped break up terrorist cells and aided investigations into organized crime and child abduction, European intelligence and law enforcement officials said in interviews.NSO’s first client, the Mexican government, was also using the hacking tools for darker purposes — as part of a broader government and industry surveillance effort. The government used NSO products to track at least two dozen journalists, government critics, international investigators looking into the unsolved disappearance of 43 students, even backers of a soda tax, according to Times investigations and research by Citizen Lab, part of the University of Toronto.Those targets were subjected to a stream of harassing text messages that contained malware. Some messages warned that their spouses were having affairs, others that a relative had passed away. In one case, when government officials were not able to infiltrate the phone of a journalist, they targeted her 16-year-old son’s.Though NSO says it sells its services for criminal and antiterrorism investigations, none of the Mexicans known to have been targeted were suspected in criminal or terrorism investigations.“NSO technology has helped stop vicious crimes and deadly terrorist attacks around the world,” the company said in a statement. “We do not tolerate misuse of our products and we regularly vet and review our contracts to ensure they are not being used for anything other than the prevention or investigation of terrorism and crime.”The company has established an ethics committee, which decides whether it can sell its spyware to countries based on their human rights records as reported by global organizations like the World Bank’s human capital index, and other indicators. NSO would not sell to Turkey, for example, because of its poor record on human rights, current and former employees said.But on the World Bank index, Turkey ranks higher than Mexico and Saudi Arabia, both NSO clients. A spokesman for Israel’s Ministry of Defense, which needs to authorize any contract that NSO wins from a foreign government, declined to answer questions about the company.A lawsuit alleged  last year that in the months before his death, Saudi Arabia used NSO products to spy on Mr. Khashoggi, the Washington Post columnist strangled and dismembered in October by Saudi operatives inside the kingdom’s consulate in Istanbul. NSO denies the accusation. Several of Mr. Khashoggi’s closest contacts were targets of NSO hacking tools, Citizen Lab reported. Without access to Mr. Khashoggi’s devices, researchers have not confirmed whether he was a direct target of NSO surveillance.Even in cases of blatant abuse, NSO continued to renew contracts with its government clients. In 2013, for instance, NSO inked its first deal with the United Arab Emirates. Within a year, the Emirati government was caught installing NSO spyware on the mobile phone of Ahmed Mansoor, a prominent human rights activist.After receiving an onslaught of text messages containing links, Mr. Mansoor — a frequent target of Emirati surveillance — grew suspicious and passed the texts to security researchers, who determined the links were NSO lures that exploited vulnerabilities in Apple software to take over Mr. Mansoor’s phone. It was, researchers said, the most sophisticated spyware they had ever uncovered on a mobile device.The discovery forced Apple to release an emergency patch. But by then, Mr. Mansoor had already been fired from his job, had his passport confiscated, his car stolen, his email hacked, his location tracked, his bank account emptied of $140,000, and was beaten by strangers twice in the same week.“You start to believe your every move is watched. Your family starts to panic,” he said in an interview before he was arrested in 2017. “I have to live with that.”Even after the U.A.E. was caught spying on Mr. Mansoor, leaked invoices showed that NSO continued to sell the Emiratis millions of dollars’ worth of spyware and services. As for Mr. Mansoor, he was sentenced to 10 years in prison for damaging national unity and is being held in solitary confinement, where his health is deteriorating.A flurry of news reports followed about countries using NSO products to spy on their citizens, prompting the company to temporarily rebrand itself “Q,” after James Bond’s gadget guru.Despite the bad news coverage, NSO’s value continued to skyrocket.Francisco Partners, a private equity firm, purchased a 70 percent stake in NSO for $130 million in 2013. Last month, NSO’s co-founders raised enough money to buy back a majority stake in NSO at a valuation of just under $1 billion. The London private equity firm Novalpina Capital backed the deal — making its major investors, including the Oregon state employees’ pension fund and Alaska’s sovereign wealth fund, part owners of NSO, according to public records.The proliferation of companies trying to replicate NSO’s success and compete in an estimated $12 billion market for so-called lawful intercept spyware has set off a fierce competition to hire American, Israeli and Russian veterans of the world’s most sophisticated intelligence agencies — and for the companies to poach talent from one another.In late 2017, NSO executives grew concerned about a spate of resignations. Private detectives hired to investigate soon found themselves on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus, tailing a group of former NSO employees — all veterans of Israel’s Intelligence Unit 8200 — going back and forth to work at a research facility.The building was owned by a company affiliated with DarkMatter, an Emirati firm that had quietly hired the Israelis to develop technologies for the U.A.E. to conduct cyberoperations against perceived enemies at home and abroad.DarkMatter also has offices inside a gleaming tower on the highway connecting Abu Dhabi to Dubai, the same building that houses the U.A.E.’s Signals Intelligence Agency, the Emirates’ version of the N.S.A.This is not by accident. DarkMatter is effectively an arm of the state that has worked directly with Emirati intelligence operatives on numerous missions such as hacking government ministries in Turkey, Qatar and Iran and spying on dissidents inside the Emirates.DarkMatter has origins in another company, an American firm called CyberPoint that years ago won contracts from the U.A.E. to help protect the Emirates from computer attacks. CyberPoint obtained a license from the American government to work for the Emiratis, a necessary step intended to regulate the export of military and intelligence services. Many of the company’s employees had worked on highly classified projects for the N.S.A. and other American intelligence agencies.But the Emiratis had outsize ambitions and repeatedly pushed CyberPoint employees to exceed the boundaries of the company’s American license. CyberPoint rebuffed requests by Emirati intelligence operatives to try to crack encryption codes and to hack websites housed on American servers — operations that would have run afoul of American law.So in 2015 the Emiratis founded DarkMatter — forming a company not bound by United States law — and lured at least a half-dozen American employees of CyberPoint to join. Marc Baier, a former official with the N.S.A. unit that carries out advanced offensive cyberoperations, became one of the firm’s top executives.DarkMatter employed several other former N.S.A. and C.I.A. officers, according to a roster of employees obtained by The Times, some making salaries of hundreds of thousands of dollars a year.“The assumption used to be that when you left the N.S.A., you’d never do that kind of offensive work again. Now, clearly there is a market for it,” said Mr. Johnston, the security expert. He worked in the military’s Cyber Command, which works closely with the N.S.A., while serving in the Marines.“The N.S.A. should consider it their responsibility to ensure that the hacking techniques taught to employees cannot be used against the United States,” he said.The company did not respond to a request to comment, nor did a spokesman for the Emirati government. Asked whether the ministry had given a license for the former Israeli intelligence operatives working for DarkMatter, a spokesman for the Israeli Ministry of Defense declined to comment. A lawyer for Mr. Baier also declined to comment.Current and former employees of the spy agency have a lifelong obligation to protect the United States’ secrets, said Greg Julian, a spokesman for the N.S.A. They are also required to report employment or representation with foreign governments for two years after they leave the agency, he said.Besides its breaches of foreign government ministries, DarkMatter also broke into Gmail, Yahoo and Hotmail accounts, according to former employees. DarkMatter operatives posed as family and friends of the people they targeted to lure them into opening emails that contained malware.Former employees said that DarkMatter targeted Mr. Mansoor, hacking his child’s baby monitor to eavesdrop on his family. In another operation, the company’s operatives pursued Rori Donaghy, a British activist critical of the Emirati government and its human rights record, who had also been a target of NSO spyware. DarkMatter also targeted Citizen Lab, the Canadian research organization, a former employee said.DarkMatter told the employees that spying on American citizens would be off limits, but it proved to be an empty pledge.In one operation, not previously reported, a DarkMatter subsidiary began an expansive effort to intercept cellular communications in Qatar, occasionally catching communications of Americans in the surveillance net in late 2015. One American working on the project said he raised concerns with his superiors, including a former C.I.A. officer in charge of the effort. The American, along with another, was pulled off the project and asked to sign a nondisclosure agreement.In repeated instances, DarkMatter collected information about Americans, a second former employee said. Most of those cases involved Americans who worked for foreign organizations — including human rights groups — that DarkMatter targeted because they had been critical of the Emirati government, the former employee said.DarkMatter operatives would occasionally collect passport information, applications or résumés belonging to Americans who applied to work at these organizations. One former employee said that the collection was accidental, and the records were expunged from the company’s databases.In 2017, a former N.S.A. hacker began providing F.B.I. agents with information about the company’s activities, according to the Reuters report. Foreign Policy first reported the F.B.I. investigation.The informant, Lori Stroud, said she had become concerned about the company’s surveillance of Americans. She later left the firm along with several other Americans because they could not be sure that DarkMatter was not deliberately targeting citizens. Soon, F.B.I. agents began stopping American employees at airports as they entered the United States and questioned them about DarkMatter’s operations, according to former company employees.The Justice Department’s case, run by prosecutors in Washington, focuses on internet fraud and the possibly illegal transfer of spying technology to a foreign country.But the prosecutors face headwinds, including diplomatic concerns about jeopardizing the United States’ relationship with the U.A.E. — an influential country that has developed close ties to the Trump administration — and worries about how pursuing the case could expose embarrassing details about the extent of the cooperation between DarkMatter and American intelligence agencies.And there is the reality that American laws governing this new age of digital warfare are murky, outdated, and ill-equipped to address rapid technological advances. The rules governing what American intelligence and military personnel can and cannot provide to foreign governments were meant to keep a leash on 20th-century warfare — selling missiles or planes overseas or training foreign forces on Army tactics.But they do not address hacking skills that can be honed in front of a laptop, or at the world’s most advanced intelligence agencies, and sold to the highest bidder.“The worst part of it is the weapons are easier to get,” said Brian Bartholomew, the principal security researcher at Kaspersky Lab, a digital security company.“You’ve got a lot of people entering the arena that are new and don’t play by the same rules,” he said. “It’s like putting a military-grade weapon in the hands of someone off the street.”An earlier version of this article misattributed the source of a valuation for the market of so-called lawful intercept spyware. The $12 billion market estimate cited by Moody’s originated from the company NSO, not Moody’s.Scott Shane contributed reporting.

