Supported by“On top of my list of threats, that many of you can guess, the word ‘cyber’ is circled, highlighted and underlined.”KIRSTJEN NIELSEN, the homeland security secretary, outlining her department’s focus in the coming year.

Supported byRegina Marie Ronquillo Escano and Mark Ryan Zappi were married March 16 at St. Thomas Apostle Catholic Church in Washington. Msgr. Andrew Wadsworth performed the ceremony.Mrs. Zappi, 30, is an associate director for audiology professional practices at the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association in Rockville, Md. She graduated from Marymount Manhattan College and received a clinical doctoral degree in audiology from the University of Washington.She is the daughter of Rebecca Ronquillo Escano and Roberto R. Escano of Cebu, the Philippines.Mr. Zappi, 29, is an associate at Booz Allen Hamilton in Washington, where he specializes in cyber transformation, a comprehensive change to the company’s security mind-set to enable larger strategic business objectives. He graduated from Boston College and is studying for a master’s in public administration at George Washington University.He is a son of Catherine Keller Zappi and Robert Zappi of Vienna, Va.The couple met in August 2015 at St. Thomas Apostle Church.

Supported byBy Nicole PerlrothSAN FRANCISCO — North Korean hackers who have targeted American and European businesses for 18 months kept up their attacks last week even as President Trump was meeting with North Korea’s leader in Hanoi.The attacks, which include efforts to hack into banks, utilities and oil and gas companies, began in 2017, according to researchers at the cybersecurity company McAfee, a time when tensions between North Korea and the United States were flaring. But even though both sides have toned down their fiery threats and begun nuclear disarmament talks, the attacks persist.In 2017, Mr. Trump mocked Kim Jong-un as “rocket man” in a speech at the United Nations, while North Korea tested missiles capable of delivering a nuclear warhead to the United States. The attacks began soon after that. Though the two sides failed to reach an agreement last week, Mr. Trump struck a conciliatory tone toward his North Korean counterpart.The revelation of North Korea’s most recent hacking activity adds new details to the tensions surrounding the summit meeting last week, which ended abruptly without any deals. After their first meeting, about eight months earlier, North Korea had agreed to stop test-firing its missiles.“For 15 months, they haven’t tested weapons because of this negotiation but over those same 15 months they have not stopped their cyber activity,” said Victor Cha, the Korea chairman at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington.With the help of an unnamed foreign law enforcement agency, the McAfee researchers gained access to one of the main computer servers used by the North Korean hackers to stage their attacks.The McAfee researchers said they watched, in real time, as the North Koreans attacked the computer networks of more than a hundred companies in the United States and around the globe. Last month, they expanded their targets to companies in Turkey, operating from a block of internet addresses traced to Namibia, one of the few countries that still maintains friendly relations with Pyongyang.“They are very, very, very active. It’s been nonstop,” said Raj Samani, McAfee’s chief scientist. “We’ve seen them hit in excess of 100 victims.”The exact motive of the attacks was not clear. They were well-researched and highly focused and, in many cases, aimed at engineers and executives who had broad access to their companies’ computer networks and intellectual property.McAfee, which is based in Santa Clara, Calif., would not name the targets of the attacks and said it would make its finding public Sunday. But the firm did provide a map of North Korean hackers’ targets.The vast majority were in the United States, with the most frequent marks in Houston, an oil and gas hub, and New York, a finance hub. Other major targets included London, Madrid, Tokyo, Tel Aviv, Rome, Bangkok, Taipei, Seoul and Hong Kong. Russia and mainland China, two countries that have maintained cordial relations with North Korea, were relatively untouched.North Korea, like the United States and many other countries, has long been accused of using hackers to further its national interests. In 2014, apparently in retaliation for a movie that mocked Mr. Kim, North Korean hackers hit Sony Pictures Entertainment. They destroyed Sony’s computer servers, paralyzed the studio’s operations and eventually leaked embarrassing emails from executives, in what would become a playbook for the Russian attacks and leaks of emails ahead of the 2016 elections.North Korean hackers have been tied to attacks on banks all around the world for financial gain — a rarity among government-affiliated hackers but not surprising for a country ravaged by economic sanctions. The “WannaCry” attack, which paralyzed more than 150 organizations around the globe in 2017, was also traced to North Korea.Mr. Cha, of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, said cyberattacks remained the “third leg” of North Korea’s overall military strategy. “They’re never going to compete with the United States and South Korea soldier to soldier, tank for tank,” he said. “So they have moved to an asymmetric strategy of nuclear weapons, ballistic missiles and the third leg is cyber, that we really didn’t become aware of until Sony.”Since the Sony attack, McAfee’s researchers said North Korea’s hackers had significantly improved their capabilities: They are much better at hiding their tracks and researching their targets. And in many of the attacks McAfee witnessed, North Korean hackers had done their homework.They scoured the Microsoft-owned business site LinkedIn, for example, to find the profiles of industry job recruiters. They sent emails that appeared to come from those recruiters’ accounts, often in perfect English, promoting job opportunities.When a target clicked on an attachment or link in the email, the hackers gained access to the target’s computer.“The campaign was clearly really well prepared,” said Christiaan Beek, McAfee’s senior principal engineer and lead scientist. “It was very well researched and very targeted. They knew the individuals they were going for, and they drafted emails in such a way that their targets clicked on them.”The tools they used to implant malware in the recent attacks, which McAfee’s researchers called “Rising Sun” because of a reference in the code, were also starkly improved.Though the implants shared code with previous North Korean attacks, McAfee’s researchers said the hackers added new functions to lift data off infected machines. They also went to great lengths to delete their digital movements and encrypt their traffic.Mr. Beek and Mr. Samani said their team at McAfee was able to follow the hackers’ movements only because of their access to the North Koreans’ server. “The more code we saw, the more links we could see to more and more attacks,” Mr. Beek said.Considering other recent North Korean hacking campaigns that McAfee’s researchers have tracked — notably against the 2018 Winter Olympics and a separate spate of attacks on banks last year — Mr. Beek said North Korea showed no signs of slowing this activity.Security experts said the attacks would have to be addressed at some point if the two countries should continue talks.“Their very aggressive cyberactivity will have to be addressed in future discussions,” Mr. Cha said. “They are extremely active and, it’s clear to me at least, they’ve stopped missile testing because of the ongoing negotiations, but they’re not stopping in cyber.”Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article misstated the length of time between the first and second summit meetings between President Trump and Kim Jong-un, North Korea’s leader. It was about eight months, not 15.Follow Nicole Perlroth on Twitter: @nicoleperlroth

Supported byBy Adam SatarianoLONDON — A British review of Huawei found “significant” security problems with the Chinese company’s telecommunications equipment, a conclusion that supports a United States effort to ban it from next-generation wireless networks.The British report, released on Thursday, said there were “underlying defects” in Huawei’s software engineering and security processes that governments or independent hackers could exploit, posing risks to national security. While the report did not call for an outright ban of Huawei equipment, it was endorsed by the country’s top cybersecurity agency.The conclusions buttress the Trump administration’s push to convince its allies that Huawei, the world’s largest maker of telecommunications equipment, creates grave risks to national security. The White House has accused Huawei of being an arm of the Chinese government that can be used for spying or to sabotage communications networks, a charge that Huawei has vehemently denied.But the American push has run into hurdles. Many countries, including Britain, have resisted the effort to ban Huawei, arguing that the risk can be mitigated. It is a critical time for wireless carriers as they prepare to spend billions of dollars to introduce next-generation wireless networks, known as 5G, which governments see as essential infrastructure for a rapidly digitizing global economy.The British report highlights broader challenges facing many countries. While Huawei products may pose cybersecurity risks, the company is a key provider of the equipment needed to build 5G networks. If countries issue an outright ban, they could face costly delays in adopting the technology that not only will increase the download speeds of mobile phones but is expected to create breakthroughs in manufacturing, transportation and health care. And Huawei is already a central part of many countries’ telecommunications networks, making a ban logistically difficult.Governments are looking to continue using Huawei’s equipment while limiting its risks. Germany, India and the United Arab Emirates, among others, have signaled they are unlikely to follow the Americans’ lead on a ban of Huawei’s 5G equipment.In a statement, Huawei said the British report “details some concerns about Huawei’s software engineering capabilities. We understand these concerns and take them very seriously.”This week, the European Union issued recommendations on securing 5G networks that didn’t call for a Huawei ban. The British government is expected to issue new telecommunications regulations this year.One main concern raised by the United States and others pushing for a ban is Huawei’s ties to the Chinese government, which maintains tight control over the national economy. A law adopted by China in 2017 has been interpreted as requiring companies to provide assistance to Beijing on national security matters.Garrett Marquis, a spokesman for the National Security Council, said the United States commended Britain “for taking a hard look at its telecommunications vendors in order to ensure the maximum security of its networks.” He added, “We share many of the concerns listed in the Oversight Board’s report.”The British authorities are trying to differentiate Huawei’s security flaws from a broader effort by Beijing to infiltrate its networks. The report on Thursday described a company with poor engineering practices and problems stemming from those engineering flaws, more than one operating at the orders of Chinese authorities.In the report, British officials determined that Huawei could not replicate much of the software it built, meaning that the authorities could not be sure what code was being introduced into the country’s wireless networks. They added that Huawei had poor oversight of suppliers that provided components for its products.“There remains no end-to-end integrity,” the report said.A senior American government official, speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss sensitive internal deliberations about Huawei, said the British finding of pervasive sloppy engineering underscored concerns about the security risks and hidden costs of using cheaper Huawei equipment in 5G networks.The environment at Huawei could allow for the intentional introduction of an exploitable flaw that would be lost in the background noise of poor practices, the official said. The official added that the intelligence community did not expect to find overt, smoking-gun “back doors” in Huawei code clearly meant to permit illicit access to network data. Instead, it expects “bug doors” — flaws that can be explained away as a mere mistake if they come to light, but that can be exploited for the same purposes by China or by other sophisticated actors who discover them.Since 2010, Britain has had an oversight board, now led by the National Cyber Security Center, tasked with overseeing Huawei’s operations. The company’s products and code are reviewed at a security lab about 70 miles outside London. In November, after British officials raised questions with Huawei about its practices, the company pledged to spend $2 billion over the next five years to improve its software and security processes.The approach is seen as a potential model for other countries looking to add more safeguards over Huawei. Germany has opened a security lab in Bonn where Huawei’s equipment and code can be reviewed. The company has also opened a facility in Brussels to appease the concerns of European Union officials.British officials have remained confident the Huawei risk can be managed. Ciaran Martin, the head of the National Cyber Security Center, said this year that an outright ban wasn’t necessary because the country had strong oversight and kept Huawei equipment outside the most sensitive areas of the country’s networks.Yet Thursday’s report remained sharply critical of Huawei. “No material progress has been made,” the report concluded.Follow Adam Satariano on Twitter: @satariano.Adam Satariano reported from London. Charlie Savage and Julian E. Barnes contributed reporting from Washington.

Supported bySo far, no Democratic candidate is claiming to be ready.By Thomas L. FriedmanOpinion ColumnistAs the 2020 campaign gets underway, we’ve heard about a Green New Deal, Medicare for all, breaking up Amazon and universal basic income — to name but a few of the ideas raised by Democratic presidential hopefuls. But one issue has been largely absent: foreign policy — the potential use of force, great-power competition and the management of alliances that will be more important during the next presidency than it has been in three decades.Maybe I missed it, but I haven’t heard any of the Democrats running on the argument that he or she is the best person to answer the White House crisis line at 3 in the morning. They all seem inclined to let that call go to voice mail. I hope that doesn’t last, because that phone will be ringing. This will be an extraordinarily volatile and confusing time for U.S. foreign policy.We’re in the post-post-Cold War era — an era when being secretary of state, let alone president, has become a terrible job. (If anyone asks you to become secretary of state, say you had your heart set on secretary of agriculture.) The post-Cold War era had its issues — 9/11, Iraq and Afghanistan, to be sure — but it was in many ways a unipolar belle epoque, in which an American hegemon stifled any serious great-power conflict.The post-post-Cold War era, which has been slowly unfolding since the early 2000s, requires a president to manage and juggle three huge geopolitical trends — and the interactions between them — all at once.The first is the resurgence of three big regional powers: Russia, China and Iran. Each is seeking to dominate its home region and is willing to use force for that purpose. This trend is compellingly described in a new book by Michael Mandelbaum, the Johns Hopkins emeritus professor of U.S. foreign policy, titled “The Rise and Fall of Peace on Earth.”As Mandelbuam notes, in Europe, Russia has occupied part of Ukraine. In East Asia, China has claimed most of the Western Pacific as its own territory, contrary to international law; has built artificial islands there; and has placed military installations on them. In the Middle East, Iran has trained and funded proxy forces in Lebanon, Syria, Iraq and Yemen and has pursued nuclear weapons.“The three have an important motive in common: All are dictatorships trying to generate support among those they rule through aggressive nationalism, at the expense of their neighbors,” Mandelbaum (with whom I co-wrote a book in 2011) remarked to me. “The combination of their insecurities and their ambitions has revived political and military competition among the strongest countries in the world. Indeed, the world of 2019 more closely resembles the world of the Cold War than of the 25 years after the fall of the Berlin Wall.”If this first trend requires a president who can manage strength — ours and that of Russia, China and Iran — the second trend will require a deft touch at managing weakness. We are going to see more and more weak states — like Venezuela, Libya, Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras and many in sub-Saharan Africa — either fall apart or hemorrhage lots of their people, because they are unable to manage the stresses from climate change, population explosion, ecosystem breakdowns and the rapid accelerations in globalization and technology.If you think managing strength is hard, try managing weakness — try attempting to put broken countries back together. It’s hell on wheels. But that will be a big challenge for the next president because the mass migrations of people away from these disorderly and failing states to zones of order, which is what is driving the current U.S. and European border crises, are not going away.Consider this Washington Post report last week: “The number of people taken into custody along the Mexico border jumped an additional 31 percent last month as an unprecedented mass migration of families from Central America pushes unauthorized crossings to the highest levels in a decade, according to U.S. Customs and Border Protection figures.” The story added that last month, the busiest February at the border since 2007, authorities detained 76,103 migrants, up from 58,207 in January, and it quoted Customs and Border Protection Commissioner Kevin McAleenan as saying: “The system is well beyond capacity and remains at a breaking point.”For the third trend, the next president will have to manage not only rival superpowers and disorder but also super-empowered small groups and individuals, because of how technology acceleration is putting incredibly powerful, cheap, small tools — for cyberwarfare, election hacking and financial hacking — into the hands of small units, vastly expanding their attack surfaces.These cyber tools are all getting fast, cheap and deep. That is, they can go deeper inside your company, your email, your election, your power grid or your bank account — every single day. This makes them easier to be weaponized by small units (like North Korea) and individuals so they can have outsize impacts through deep fake, deep surveillance, deep cyber theft.Which brings us back to the thesis of “The Rise and Fall of Peace on Earth.” The resurgent competition between us, China, Russia and Iran means that instead of our having their cooperation “to try to manage state failure and the technological tsunami, the three revisionists are making them worse,” Mandelbaum told me. “Russia and Iran took the lead in devastating Syria, producing a flood of refugees that has, among other things, destabilized Europe. And all three have weaponized the new technology, hacking the U.S. and Europe and, in the case of Russia, even interfering with an American election.”This means there will be even more pressure on the next president to find allies and build alliances to maintain order. Only the U.S. has the ability to organize coalitions to deter Russia, China and Iran, Mandelbaum argues. Only the U.S. has the resources and the experience to lead a global effort to try to cope with state failure. “And since much of the new technology was invented and applied here, the U.S. is in the best position to figure out how to cope with it.”Among President Trump’s greatest foreign policy weaknesses is his inability to build and maintain alliances. Few other countries want to follow him into battle. The winner of the 2020 election, whether Trump or someone else, is going to pay for the way Trump has allowed our traditional alliances to wither and has made the U.S. administration (not people) so unpopular with populations from Canada to Mexico to Europe to Asia to the Middle East that many of their leaders do not feel comfortable standing with our president, even if they are so inclined.That is not Trump’s only poisoned legacy. The other is that he shows no interest in democracy promotion, and that, too, is more important than ever, because democracies are much less prone to war. But we’re in a democracy recession now. Leaders from China to Egypt to Uganda to Turkey are all making themselves presidents for life.“The principal disturbers of the peace — Russia, China, and Iran — are all dictatorships that seek popular support, can no longer get it through economic growth, don’t have the option of getting it through democracy, and in fact fear that democratic demands and democratic forces will unseat them,” Mandelbaum said. “Their aggressive policies are designed to protect their regimes against, most of all, democracy.”So hold onto your hats: Great-power conflict is in, but U.S. democracy promotion is out. We need allies more than ever, and we have fewer than ever. And some guy in Moldova with a cellphone and a few cyber tools can now shut off the power grid in Montana.No wonder no one wants to boast being the best person to answer the White House crisis line at 3 a.m. They all prefer to let it ring and hope that it’s a wrong number.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Thomas L. Friedman is the foreign affairs Op-Ed columnist. He joined the paper in 1981, and has won three Pulitzer Prizes. He is the author of seven books, including “From Beirut to Jerusalem,” which won the National Book Award.  @tomfriedman • Facebook 

transcriptHosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Michael Simon Johnson and Ike Sriskandarajah, and edited by Larissa Anderson and Lisa TobinDespite the unlikely courtship between the leaders of the two countries, neither the United States nor North Korea wants to be the first to compromise.Friday, March 1st, 2019michael barbaroFrom The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today: President Trump was so confident he would reach a nuclear deal with North Korea that he scheduled a signing ceremony before an agreement had even been struck. How it all fell apart. It’s Friday, March 1. David Sanger, where are you right now?david sangerWell, Michael, I’m in Hanoi. I’ve been staying in my favorite hotel in Southeast Asia. It’s the Metropole. They have pictures of famous guests like Charlie Chaplin and others that are hanging on the wall, big, sweeping old staircases, and the best bar in Southeast Asia, the Bamboo Bar, known for all kinds of exotic drinks and intrigue. But if you walk out a little past the bar, you can go down into a bomb shelter that’s left over from the Vietnam War. Soon as I heard that the meeting between President Trump and Kim Jong-un was going to be held in Hanoi, I reserved at the Metropole because I figured, this has got to be where they’re going to meet. And indeed, this is the place where, on Wednesday night, and then most of the day on Thursday, they came over to hold their conference.michael barbaroAnd what is the significance of having this summit at this location?david sangerWell, Michael, I think picking Vietnam was full of symbolism for the North Koreans. I mean, here’s an adversary of the United States. Fought a terrible war with us — more than half a million Americans went to go fight in that war. Tens of thousands died. And today it’s fundamentally a partner of the U.S., and a really fast-growing economy, one of the most successful stories in Southeast Asia. And I think the message to Kim Jong-un was all this can be yours.michael barbaroDavid, heading into this meeting in Hanoi, where did things stand between the U.S. and North Korea?david sangerWell, you know, Michael, for a quarter-century, American presidents have been trying to solve the intractable problem of the North Korean nuclear program.archived recording (bill clinton)This is a good deal for the United States. North Korea will freeze and then dismantle its nuclear program.david sangerBill Clinton negotiated a big deal in 1994, after the two countries came pretty close to war over the North’s nuclear ambitions.archived recording (bill clinton)South Korea and our other allies will be better protected. The entire world will be safer as we slow the spread of nuclear weapons.david sangerAnd that deal held for a while, until the North cheated on it in a few years and started buying a different way to make a bomb.archived recording (george w. bush)Last night, the government of North Korea proclaimed to the world that it had conducted a nuclear test. We’re working to confirm North Korea’s claim.david sangerGeorge W. Bush threatened the North Koreans at various moments, but ended up signing a deal with them. And the North Koreans actually blew up part of a reactor at Yongbyon.archived recording (george w. bush)To demonstrate its commitment, North Korea has said it will destroy the cooling tower of the Yongbyon reactor in front of international television cameras tomorrow.david sangerThey rebuilt it later.archived recording (barack obama)Say a few words about North Korea’s announcement that it has conducted a nuclear test.david sangerAnd President Obama —archived recording (barack obama)As well as its decision to attempt a short-range missile launch.david sangerWho was pretty angered when the North Koreans greeted his first months of office with a nuclear test, ultimately ended up trying a small offer with the North Koreans, and it fell apart, too.archived recording (barack obama)We do believe that if there are any signs, at any point, that North Korea is serious about dialogue around denuclearization in the Korean Peninsula, that we’ll be ready to have those conversations.david sangerAnd then came President Trump —archived recording (donald trump)The United States has great strength and patience, but if it is forced to defend itself or its allies, we will have no choice but to totally destroy North Korea.david sangerWho at first threatened fire and fury, and suggested he might go to war with North Korea before he became the first president to actually meet with one of its leaders.michael barbaroAnd how did that meeting play out?david sangerWell, that meeting was last June, in Singapore.archived recording (donald trump)Feel really great. We’re going to have a great discussion, and I think tremendous success. We’ll be tremendously successful.david sangerAnd you’ll remember that it was just a day —archived recording (donald trump)And we would go back and forth. And then we fell in love, O.K.? No, really. He wrote me beautiful letters. And they’re great letters.david sangerBut President Trump, who has always had an affection for authoritarian leaders and dictators, suddenly declared that Kim Jong-un — a man who has sent thousands of people to the gulags, murdered family members who challenged him — was actually a really progressive and interesting leader.archived recording (donald trump)I think that he really wants to do a great job for North Korea. I think he wants to de-nuke. It’s very important. Without that, there’s nothing to discuss. That was on the table at the beginning, and you see a total denuclearization of North Korea is so important.david sangerAnd they put together a communiqué back in June that had a lot of vague promises about denuclearization, about steps the United States would take to normalize its relationship with the North. But almost as soon as they left Singapore —archived recording (speaker 1)Well, I think the most reasonable assessment you can make of it is that we don’t know if it’s going to work out or not.archived recording (speaker 2)I’m deeply skeptical of the summit because nothing was actually achieved.archived recording (speaker 3)Will he accept inspectors inside his country to verify the destruction of nuclear weapons?david sangerPeople were wondering, what does this add up to? Is this going to turn into real action?michael barbaroAnd what was the answer?david sangerWell, the answer was there wasn’t much action. The North Koreans kept saying, no, you have to relieve sanctions on us and improve the atmosphere of our relationship before we’ll feel secure enough to even begin to dismantle any part of our nuclear program. And the administration’s position for a number of months was, no, you don’t understand. You have to give up all of your weapons. And as you’re getting close to the end of that process, then we’ll start lifting sanctions. But you have to trust us that we’ll do that. And they got stuck in that for a while. Mike Pompeo, the secretary of state, went over to North Korea to try to turn that communiqué that had been signed in Singapore into something real, and Kim Jong-un wouldn’t even really see him. So it’s been very slow, and in part it’s been slow because the North Koreans have said, this is an issue so big that it can only be settled by the two top leaders — only by President Trump and Kim.michael barbaroSo David, just to be clear, after round one of these negotiations last June between Trump and Kim, the issue is around, basically, who acts first — the U.S. lifting these economic sanctions designed to discourage North Korea from developing or keeping nuclear weapons, or North Korea giving up those nuclear weapons or stopping its nuclear developments?david sangerThat’s absolutely right. Because as in any such negotiation, Michael, no one wants to lose their leverage.michael barbaroMm-hmm.david sangerThe only leverage the North Koreans have is that they’ve got the nuclear weapons. If North Korea didn’t have nuclear weapons, we’d probably only think about them on World Food Day. And they know it. And for the United States, the only real leverage we have are these international sanctions, approved by the United Nations. And as soon as they’re lifted, the incentive for North Korea to do anything, especially destroy the weapons that it has invested in for 40 years, would disappear.michael barbaroDavid, given how the first meeting went, which is that an agreement was reached that was vague and not all that meaningful, and it quickly began to unravel right afterwards, was there an indication that the negotiations would be approached differently this time, with the idea of greater success?david sangerAbsolutely, Michael. This time they wanted to go into it better prepared. There was the sense that you would have the agreement pretty well wrapped up and put on paper before the two leaders met, and that’s pretty traditional in diplomatic meetings. But on that very sensitive issue of who moves first, the answer was a sort of highly choreographed set of steps in which the North Koreans would take certain steps toward denuclearization, and the Americans would slowly lift some peripheral sanctions and allow South Korea and North Korea to resume trade. So both sides were sort of moving in baby steps.michael barbaroSo what would be different this time, according to these preparations, is that instead of there being confusion or deadlock over who would act first, the U.S. or North Korea, both countries would agree to take small, simultaneous steps to create progress on denuclearization and sanction-lifting, and that that would create a better outcome?david sangerThat’s absolutely right. And in fact, President Trump seemed so eager to make that deal and so confident that it would come together that there was some suggestion that maybe he was too eager, that the signaling to the North Koreans would be that he wanted a deal at any cost. In fact, they were so eager, Michael, that they set up a signing ceremony for a communiqué that the two leaders hadn’t really approved yet, and then a big, elaborate lunch to celebrate it all that they were planning to hold inside the hotel. On Thursday afternoon, the table had already been set with fine china, and the water already poured into the glasses.michael barbaroO.K., so what actually happens?david sangerWell, the first thing that happened was that Kim Jong-un arrived in his armored train. He doesn’t like to fly, so he took it from North Korea, up through China, and then to the Vietnam border, and then switched to a car and drove down to Hanoi. President Trump was more traditional. He came in Air Force One, and they met on Wednesday night at the Metropole.archived recording (donald trump)So we’re going to have a very busy day tomorrow, and we’ll probably have a pretty quick dinner. And a lot of things are gonna be solved, I hope. And I think it’ll lead to wonderful — it’ll lead to, really, a wonderful situation long-term.david sangerThey had dinner at the Metropole. Everything seemed warm, and it seemed like everything went exactly as planned.michael barbaroAnd what happens next?david sangerWell, on Thursday morning I was sitting in the breakfast room at the Metropole, enjoying a good bowl of pho, when all of a sudden I looked up at the window, and the president’s motorcade shows up. I see him walk into the building, and he begins to meet with Kim. And then we started getting these funny little indications from the reporters who were in the pool, the small group that follows the president around. They reported that the lunch had been canceled. Well, that seemed strange, since they had already set the table. Then they reported there would be no signing of the communiqué. So we began to wonder, has something here gone truly wrong? And then a statement arrived from Sarah Sanders, the press secretary, who said there would be no communiqué — that the talks had ended early, that President Trump wanted to leave earlier, so he was going to hold the press conference a bit earlier. And it became pretty clear pretty fast that whatever they were trying to accomplish had really fallen apart.archived recordingLadies and gentlemen, the president of the United States, and the secretary of state of the United States.david sangerAnd then we all show up at this news conference in a big ballroom at the JW Marriott Hanoi and hope that President Trump will explain to us what happened.archived recording (donald trump)Well, thank you very much. I want to begin by thanking the prime minister and president of Vietnam.michael barbaroAnd at this news conference, what do you learn has actually happened — why these negotiations seem to have fallen apart?david sangerSo what was interesting, Michael, was what didn’t happen.archived recording (donald trump)On North Korea, we just left Chairman Kim with a really — I think a very productive time. We thought, and I thought, and Secretary Pompeo felt that it wasn’t a good thing to be signing anything —david sangerIt became clear from listening to President Trump that the United States was not comfortable with the small number of concessions that the North Koreans wanted to give in return for a big lifting of sanctions.archived recording (donald trump)Basically, they wanted the sanctions lifted in their entirety, and we couldn’t do that.david sangerAnd President Trump said outright that he was afraid we would all criticize him for giving away too much and not getting enough. So he didn’t sign.archived recording (donald trump)I could have signed an agreement today, and then you people would have said, oh, what a terrible deal. What a terrible thing he did. No, you have to be prepared to walk.david sangerAnd then, true dealmaker that he likes to say he is, he declared to all of us, you know, sometimes you have to walk away.archived recording (donald trump)So we continue to work, and we’ll see, but we had to walk away from that particular suggestion. We had to walk away from that.david sangerIt became pretty clear as the negotiations went on that all that preparation work was really for naught, that Chairman Kim still wanted almost all the sanctions on his country lifted, even though he wasn’t prepared to give up, at least at that time, all of his nuclear facilities.michael barbaroSo just as last time, the problem is timing. The North Koreans want the US to act first, lift those sanctions, but they are unwilling to simultaneously give up their nuclear arsenal, as the U.S. wants?david sangerYeah. They’re stuck in the classic “who goes first” conundrum. And despite the fact that President Trump had said over the summer to some of his supporters that he and Kim Jong-un had fallen in love, and that they had deepest respect for each other, they clearly could not move off of this point.michael barbaroDavid, did you get a sense during this news conference, or even afterwards, about why Kim would agree to something ahead of time — that both countries would give up something at the same time in this negotiation — and then would backtrack during the actual summit?david sangerI think the interesting question is, in the end, did Kim ever really intend to agree to give away, even over time, all of the nuclear infrastructure that his father and his grandfather had invested in so heavily for the past 40 years? Or did he think that he could get all the economic benefits, and still hold on to at least enough of his nuclear arsenal that he had the ultimate protection if things went bad with the United States?michael barbaroHe may have never intended to negotiate in good faith the way the U.S. had hoped he would.david sangerYeah, I think that’s right. And meanwhile, the Americans had their own delusions out here, which was that a foreign leader like Kim Jong-un would ultimately decide that it was better to open up their economy and get the benefits of trade and become rich, because Donald Trump had told them they could build beautiful hotels along their beaches, and that they would make that trade for their nuclear weapons. And I think anybody who’s watched the North Koreans over the years have realized they might give up some of their nuclear weapons, but it’s almost unimaginable they would give up all of them.michael barbaroSo it seems pretty clear that no progress was made at this summit. But I wonder if the fact that the U.S. president and the North Korean leader are even talking — talking this frequently, dining together, exchanging these pleasantries — that that means that the thing that we most feared from the beginning, which is a nuclear conflict with North Korea, that that seems inherently lower as a possibility, as a result of these discussions, and that that is a kind of progress, even if there’s no deal.david sangerYes, I think that’s right, Michael. Because if you think that the threat is a combination of what the mood is between the two countries and what the North Korean capability is, then certainly the mood had improved. The problem is that the North’s capabilities kept growing — that even after the meeting in Singapore, the North Koreans kept producing nuclear material. We think they kept making some more bombs. We think that they improved their missiles. Now, at the news conference —archived recording (david sanger)President, David Sanger from the New York Times.archived recording (donald trump)I know, David.archived recording (david sanger)Six months ago, when you spoke — or eight months ago, in Singapore —david sangerI asked him whether or not he believed that the North Koreans not only would be willing to give up the weapons that we knew about, but also some that are outside the main nuclear complex at Yongbyon, where the United States has found some secret facilities.archived recording (david sanger)Continue to produce more nuclear material, and that’s been a pressure point on you, because he’s showing that the arsenal’s getting larger while this is going on.michael barbaroAnd what did he say in response to your question?archived recording (donald trump)Well, some people, David, are saying that, and some people are denying that. They have shots from above — way above — and some people are saying that, and some people aren’t.archived recording (david sanger)You know, in his answer, he sort of hemmed and hawed for a bit, and tried to go question the intelligence that they were adding to their nuclear stockpile, even while he was negotiating with them.archived recording (donald trump)But I could have taken that out today. But I think you and others would have said we didn’t get enough for what we’d be giving up. And you know —michael barbaroAnd what did Trump say during the news conference about where the relationship between he and Kim Jong-un stands?archived recording (donald trump)This wasn’t a walk away — like, you get up and walk out. No, this was very friendly. We shook hands. You know, there’s a there’s a warmth that we have, and I hope that stays. I think it will.david sangerYou know, Michael, he was putting the best spin possible on it. He was making the argument that this wasn’t the end of things, that he was willing to meet again.archived recording (donald trump)But I think the relationship was very warm, and when we walked away, it was a very friendly walk.david sangerThat the teams would go out and meet again. But let’s face it, Michael — the president of the United States just flew 8,000 miles, halfway around the world, at a time that he’s under tremendous pressure in the United States, from the Cohen testimony, the Mueller investigation, and the deal fell apart in his hands.michael barbaroSo David, where do the past 48 hours leave the U.S. and North Korea?david sangerYou know, Michael, in the best-case scenario, this is just a temporary blip. You know, all negotiations hit snags, and they’ll get past this. In the worst case, the North Koreans will decide to escalate, to put more pressure on the United States, and they would put that pressure on the U.S. by ramping up their production of nuclear material, building better missiles — maybe even resuming testing of those missiles or nuclear devices, even though Kim Jong-un apparently promised to President Trump that he wouldn’t do that. And you know, it comes at a really bad moment, Michael, because this is a time when people are once again worried that we are heading backwards in the nuclear world. The U.S. is pulling out of the I.N.F. treaty, the Intermediate Nuclear Forces Treaty, with Russia, and some people fear that could lead to an arms race, not only with Russia, but perhaps with China, which builds that kind of missile. The Iranians are wondering whether or not they ought to pull out of the nuclear accord that got negotiated with President Obama in 2015, because of course, President Trump has taken the U.S. out of that agreement. And you’re beginning to see the Chinese build more and more capable weapons. And now we’ve got a renewed conflict between two nuclear-capable states — India and Pakistan. So suddenly, for people who thought that the Cold War was something their grandparents went through, they may have the opportunity to go through it again themselves. And that’s not a good place to be in an era when we’ve got more distrust in the international system than any of us remember in many years.michael barbaroDavid, thank you very much.david sangerThank you, Michael. Great to be with you.michael barbaroOn Thursday afternoon, after we spoke with David, North Korean officials held a news conference of their own in Hanoi and offered a different explanation for why the negotiations broke down.archived recording[SPEAKING KOREAN]michael barbaroDuring the news conference, the North Korean officials said that the country had sought to lift some but not all economic sanctions, as Trump had stated, and warned that the U.S. had missed a, quote, “once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to strike a deal.” The officials said that there are no plans for future meetings between Trump and Kim.Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Via Apple Podcasts | Via RadioPublic | Via StitcherPresident Trump was so confident he would reach a nuclear pact with North Korea that he scheduled a signing ceremony before an agreement had even been struck. Here’s how it all unraveled.[For an exclusive look at how the biggest stories on “The Daily” podcast come together, subscribe to our newsletter.]On today’s episode:David E. Sanger, a national security correspondent for The New York Times and the author of “The Perfect Weapon: War, Sabotage, and Fear in the Cyber Age.”Background reading:What had started as a day of harmony ended with President Trump and North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, speeding off in their motorcades without even a final handshake for the cameras.The abrupt end to the summit meeting leaves negotiations between the United States and North Korea at a deadlock.The split underscored the risk of leader-to-leader diplomacy: When it fails, there are few places to go.Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Follow Michael Barbaro on Twitter: @mikiebarb. And if you’re interested in advertising with “The Daily,” write to us at thedaily-ads@nytimes.com.David E. Sanger contributed reporting.“Why the North Korea Deal Fell Apart (Again)” was produced by Michael Simon Johnson and Ike Sriskandarajah, and edited by Larissa Anderson and Lisa Tobin.“The Daily” is produced by Theo Balcomb, Annie Brown, Jessica Cheung, Lynsea Garrison, Michael Simon Johnson, Andy Mills, Neena Pathak, Rachel Quester, Ike Sriskandarajah, Clare Toeniskoetter, Jonathan Wolfe and Alexandra Leigh Young, and edited by Larissa Anderson, Paige Cowett and Wendy Dorr. Lisa Tobin is our executive producer. Samantha Henig is our editorial director. Brad Fisher is our technical manager. Chris Wood is our sound engineer. Our theme music is by Jim Brunberg and Ben Landsverk of Wonderly.

Supported byBy Zolan Kanno-YoungsWASHINGTON — Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, said on Monday that cyberthreats against the United States were a national security crisis that she described as her top priority — not the situation for which President Trump last month declared a national emergency.“On top of my list of threats, that many of you can guess, the word ‘cyber’ is circled, highlighted and underlined,” Ms. Nielsen said in a speech outlining her department’s focus in the coming year. “The cyberdomain is a target, a weapon and a threat vector all at the same time.”Mr. Trump has called the increasing flow of immigrants to the southern border one of the most urgent national security issues threatening the United States. Last week, issuing his first veto against legislation that would have blocked him from diverting Defense Department funds to build a border wall, the president described a recent spike in migrants crossing the border as an “invasion.”The Department of Homeland Security oversees customs officers and immigration agents who are on the front lines of the Trump administration’s campaign to close the border to illegal immigration.Ms. Nielsen did dedicate a portion of her speech on Monday to what she called a “humanitarian and security catastrophe” of Central American families traveling to the border. She also noted that the projected number of migrants who may be apprehended at the southern border this month was expected to rise to 100,000, up from 76,000 in February.But mentions of digital threats were dispersed throughout her approximately 35-minute address to an auditorium of various Department of Homeland Security officials.Among global jihadists and transnational criminals, Ms. Nielsen listed “cyberthugs and hackers and resurgent nation-state rivals” as an emerging threat to the United States. She asked two cybersecurity officials who helped safeguard the 2018 elections to stand for a round of applause.Ms. Nielsen also assailed President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and the Kremlin “for a concerted effort to undermine our elections and our democratic process using cyberenabled means.” And she said the average American citizen or company was “no match” for virtual threats from Russia, China, North Korea and Iran.“I am more worried about the ability of bad guys to hijack our networks than their ability to hijack our flights,” Ms. Nielsen said. “I am concerned about them holding our infrastructure hostage, stealing our money and secrets, exploiting children online and even hacking our democracy.”John Cohen, a former acting under secretary for intelligence during the Obama administration, said law enforcement could no longer look at the threats in the digital world and the physical world as separate issues. Extremist groups now circulate videos on the internet to inspire terrorist attacks, and drug traffickers are using the dark web — something Ms. Nielsen also highlighted in her speech.Mr. Cohen said he remained unclear on how Ms. Nielsen proposed combating cybersecurity threats.“There is an incredible amount of talent at D.H.S.,” said Mr. Cohen, also a senior adviser at the agency during the George W. Bush administration. “My concern is that talent and those capabilities are being underutilized, because in the eyes of many at the White House, the sole purpose for D.H.S. is to conduct its immigrant and border security activities.”Ms. Nielsen said the department was focused on increasing collaboration with the private sector, citing a summit meeting held in New York last year for industry and government officials. She said she expected the cooperation between various homeland security agencies to improve when the department consolidates at a former mental hospital next month.She praised the department’s work in defending the integrity of the 2018 midterm elections and said she was confident in her department’s ability to secure the 2020 presidential vote. Ms. Nielsen also said homeland security would continue to pursue prosecutions against foreign entities that hack the American digital infrastructure.“What worries me, though, is not what these threat actors have done,” Ms. Nielsen said, “but what they have the capability to do.”

Supported byThe many serious crimes that Mueller uncovered, almost by accident, show us that we have to prioritize official corruption.By Tim WuMr. Wu is a law professor who has worked in federal and state government.We are at risk of missing the most important lesson taught by the Mueller investigation. The rampant criminality it revealed suggests the desperate need to thoroughly investigate financial, political and electoral criminality in the United States. With the so-called war on drugs in remission, Mr. Mueller’s work should inspire federal and state officials to make the crimes of swampland and related white-collar and cyber criminality the next priority for the nation’s most talented prosecutors. For what Mr. Mueller really found, above all, was abundant evidence of crimes against democracy itself.Consider that in just 22 months, Mr. Mueller’s small team of lawyers and investigators indicted 34 people (and that’s not counting the referrals) — many of them serious criminals who were largely off the radar otherwise. Without the Mueller investigation, Paul Manafort might well still be buying carpets instead of sitting in solitary confinement; Michael Cohen might still be shaking down corporations for cash; Richard Pinedo still selling stolen identities to online buyers; and Rick Gates and Sam Patten still selling access to hostile foreign powers.This group of criminals were caught by happenstance. They had the misfortune of having some association with Donald Trump and the further coincidence of a special counsel appointment. That prompts a question: Just how many other Manaforts, Cohens and Gateses are still operating out there?Do we really imagine that Mr. Manafort and Mr. Gates are the only well-connected people in Washington who have had the idea of taking millions from foreign governments in exchange for promises of influence while seeking to conceal these payments? Does it seem likely that the Russians are the only ones who will ever try to hack an election by trolling, phishing and the intentional dissemination of defamatory propaganda? And what are the odds that Mr. Cohen is the only man in New York guilty of major tax evasion and making major in-kind contributions to a candidate without reporting them? The real bottom line of the Mueller report is that the future of law enforcement will not be found on street corners. It will be along the K Street corridor, the offices of unsavory real estate developers and the darkest alleys of the information superhighway.While the Manafort-Gates indictments suggest diving into the underside of lobbying, the electoral tampering charges directed at the Russian troll farms and hackers suggest newer and even more pressing priorities. Mr. Mueller’s indictments were limited to Russian efforts to influence the 2016 presidential election. But the United States has plenty of domestic trolls and malicious hackers, too. Some of them threaten journalists; others have already used millions of stolen identities to attack federal agencies with fake opinions. To say this is an area of national vulnerability is a gross understatement.There is far more to the agenda suggested by the Mueller probe than just putting some bad guys in jail. What the indicted targets threatened were key pillars of democracy itself, including an uncorrupted electoral process, a government free from secret foreign influence and the credibility of the main channels of speech. It is the constitutional duty of law enforcement to protect the basic institutions of democracy, but other priorities have taken precedence.Such as the so-called war on drugs. Since the 1970s, when President Richard Nixon announced it, federal and state law enforcement has been asked to put much of their time and resources into fighting drug crimes, at the expense of other offenses. The result is well known to anyone who has worked in the court system or law enforcement itself. Violations of election law are rarely detected and even more rarely prosecuted. For the rich and immoral, it seems foolish not to try tax avoidance. The hard truth is that crimes committed by people like Mr. Manafort have become crimes that pay, for the chances of being caught are low, and if you are caught, the sentences are relatively light. In fact, federal corruption and white-collar prosecutions are at a 20-year low and down 40 percent since 1998, according to tracking by Syracuse University.There is a grave danger that the swirling politics of the Mueller report will lead us to forget what it revealed: a toxic cloud of routine criminality surrounding the American political system. It echoed previous efforts, like the F.B.I.’s Abscam sting in the late 1970s, which yielded the corruption convictions of one senator and six congressmen, not to mention the more recent corruption trials in New York, Illinois and California.This is why we need political leaders who will free up investigators and prosecutors who have been fighting the war on drugs and put them to work investigating Manafort-style foreign corruption, Cohen-style financial crimes and Russian-style election propagandizing. The Mueller inquiry may be over, but it should inspire the work of a new generation of prosecutors who want to fight one of the great evils of our time.Tim Wu (@superwuster) is a law professor at Columbia, a contributing opinion writer and the author, most recently, of “The Curse of Bigness: Antitrust in the New Gilded Age.”The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported byBy David M. Halbfinger and Ronen BergmanNAHAL OZ, Israel — Benny Gantz, Israel’s former army chief, is campaigning to lead his country as the clean, moral alternative to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who faces indictment in a corruption scandal.But less than a month before the election, Mr. Gantz found himself fielding seamy-sounding questions late Friday about whether he had committed adultery, opened himself up to possible extortion or sandbagged his political allies to advance his own career.The awkward news appearance here at a kibbutz near the Gaza Strip followed a report on Israeli television that Mr. Gantz’s cellphone had been hacked by Iranian intelligence after his entry into politics in December and that personal and professional information had been stolen.Mr. Gantz retired from the military in 2015, so the issue is not whether classified information might now be in enemy hands, but that he could be vulnerable to blackmail if elected. The hack threatened to set back his bid, which polls have shown has the strongest chance of any opposition politician to depose Mr. Netanyahu. With rumors flying about what might have been harvested from Mr. Gantz’s cellphone, his party, the Blue and White, issued a statement saying the stolen data included “no security information, no embarrassing videos, and he was never a target of blackmail.”That was not enough to put a lid on the speculation, however, and so the laconic Mr. Gantz, whose campaign strategy has entailed saying as little as possible, hastily arranged his first news conference.His backdrop was the Gaza border, where a wave of Israeli airstrikes hit early Friday after two Hamas rockets had reached Tel Aviv for the first time since the summerlong war of 2014. That allowed Mr. Gantz, who prosecuted that war as army chief, to try to shame the Israeli press into focusing on more sober matters.“We are here in a story of an ongoing security event,” Mr. Gantz said, glowering in front of a barbed-wire fence, to dozens of journalists who had trekked the hour from Tel Aviv or Jerusalem shortly before the start of the Sabbath. “And in the reality we are in, someone suddenly broke some political, gossipy and completely delusional story.”Given that his party’s statement said there were no videos, he was asked, might there be embarrassing photos or correspondence? “I’m not going to stoop to that place,” he said, calling it “unethical nosiness.”Did he ever have a relationship with a woman that could be the basis for extortion? another reporter ventured. “I’m not subject to extortion under any circumstances,” he said, again refusing to go there.Mr. Gantz’s centrist Blue and White party is leading Mr. Netanyahu’s Likud in the polls in terms of the number of Parliament’s 120 seats it is expected to win. But the prime ministership is determined based on which leader can forge a majority governing coalition, a measure on which Mr. Gantz and his partners trail the incumbent and his right-wing allies.On Friday, Mr. Gantz flatly accused the prime minister of being “behind the reports about the telephone.”Mr. Gantz was informed of the hacking in early February by the Shin Bet, Israel’s domestic security service. That was before he joined forces with Yair Lapid, a former finance minister whose Yesh Atid party was trailing Mr. Gantz in the polls. Mr. Lapid agreed to let Mr. Gantz sit at the top of the ticket under an agreement that would have them swap the prime ministership midstream if they win.But Mr. Gantz did not apprise Mr. Lapid of the Iranian hack before striking that deal. In fact, Blue and White party officials said on Friday, Mr. Lapid and the two other former army chiefs of staff running alongside Mr. Gantz, Moshe Yaalon and Gabi Ashkenazi, were not informed of the breach until shortly before Thursday’s television report.Asked why he had not apprised his political brethren sooner, Mr. Gantz was dismissive. “Yair and the others aren’t relevant to this story,” he said.None of his three comrades, who have routinely campaigned alongside Mr. Gantz, joined him at the late-Friday news conference — though all three publicly echoed his contention that Mr. Netanyahu, who oversees the Shin Bet, had orchestrated the leak to damage him.Mr. Lapid said Mr. Netanyahu’s “use of sensitive security material to try to smear Benny Gantz proves he is scared of him.” And Mr. Yaalon told a TV interviewer that Mr. Netanyahu wanted to distract attention from the criminal cases in which he is accused of bribery, fraud and breach of trust.The prime minister’s office said that the chief of the Shin Bet, who reports directly to Mr. Netanyahu, had not briefed him or his aides about the hacking. His Likud party denied any hand in the leak.A security official involved in the matter said that Iran’s Ministry of Intelligence and Security, which has been engaged in a long-running spy-vs.-spy battle with Israel’s Mossad on multiple continents, had hacked Mr. Gantz’s phone and was behind a series of other cyber attacks against Israel.The incident was reminiscent of one early in Mr. Netanyahu’s rise to power. In 1993, he admitted to having an extramarital affair after he said anonymous rivals had threatened to release a compromising videotape. No tape was ever produced, and Mr. Netanyahu accused an archrival of being behind the scandal.David M. Halbfinger reported from Nahal Oz, Israel, and Ronen Bergman from Tel Aviv.

Supported byBitsBy Adam SatarianoEach week, technology reporters and columnists from The New York Times review the week’s news, offering analysis and maybe a joke or two about the most important developments in the tech industry. Want this newsletter in your inbox? Sign up here.Hello, Adam Satariano here, back from Barcelona, where the MWC Barcelona tech conference, formerly called Mobile World Congress, just wrapped up.An event celebrating new bendable smartphones, augmented-reality goggles and internet-connected beer kegs would seem an unlikely base for an important geopolitical standoff. But that was what happened in the Spanish city this past week, when members of the Trump administration attended MWC to try to persuade other countries to ban the Chinese technology company Huawei.You’re forgiven if you have not kept up with the deluge of news regarding the Huawei fight. It’s a complicated, fast-moving and often-technical story.In short, the White House has been trying for a year to get allies, particularly in Europe, to impose bans against using Huawei equipment inside the new wireless networks, known as 5G, that will become available starting this year. 5G is seen as critical infrastructure for a quickly digitizing economy, increasing phone data speeds but also creating new opportunities in robotics, transportation, manufacturing and artificial intelligence.The United States says using Huawei equipment in the new networks will create a grave vulnerability that the Chinese government will exploit. It’s a dramatic and worrying accusation — if true. But the Trump administration hasn’t provided much hard evidence.In Barcelona, I met in a hotel lobby with a frustrated executive from one of Europeʼs biggest carriers who said the United States had presented no new details to support its accusations.Instead, American officials have tried to gain support by rehashing China’s history of cyber misbehavior and President Xi Jinping’s increasing control over the Chinese economy.This executive’s frustration may explain why the White House effort has lost momentum in recent weeks. British intelligence officials recently indicated that a ban wasn’t necessary, and The Wall Street Journal reported that Germany shared that view.At MWC, the White House sent a team from the State, Commerce and Defense Departments, as well as the chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, Ajit Pai, to make the case against Huawei.Nobody appeared to be won over. Vodafoneʼs chief executive, Nick Read, defended Huawei at a news conference, repeating a not-so-subtle swipe at the United States that criticism of Huawei wasn’t “fact based.” Officials in the United Arab Emirates, a typically reliable American ally in the Middle East, seemed to agree. On Monday, just as MWC was starting, the country’s state-owned wireless carrier announced a deal with Huawei to build the 5G network there.Perhaps sensing a momentum shift, Huawei has ratcheted up its opposition to the American campaign. On Monday, a Huawei executive, Vincent Peng, said cybersecurity was a “technical challenge, not a political challenge.” The next morning, Guo Ping, the company’s rotating chairman, said the United States had a more checkered history of espionage than Huawei, referring to the whistle-blower Edward J. Snowden’s disclosures in 2013 of an internet surveillance program by American spy agencies and their allies.Huawei is a relatively boring company. While it has branched out to become one of the world’s largest manufacturers of smartphones, it primarily makes the gear needed to make phone networks work. It’s the kind of infrastructure people rely upon but don’t give much thought.But the debate is worth following. Huawei foreshadows conflicts about important emerging technologies such as artificial intelligence, in which China is developing an expertise that the United States and its allies are likely to view as an economic and security threat.In other news:■ The other week, I averaged three hours and 12 minutes of screen time per day. I feel somewhat proud of this figure, pathetically, because it was down from some of my more frightening recent averages, which occasionally topped — not sure I should admit this — five hours. Kevin Roose described his detox experience in a memorable column about how we can assert control over our digital lives. I have a long way to go.■ Life is even worse than we thought for Facebook moderators who are paid $15 an hour to review the internet’s most horrific material. After Casey Newton’s must-read investigation was published this past week in The Verge, I like the idea that all Facebook employees should have to spend a month doing this job.■ Ahead of the 2018 midterm elections, the United States blocked internet access to the Russian group behind many of the online misinformation campaigns targeted at Americans, The Washington Post reported, saying it “was part of the first offensive cybercampaign against Russia designed to thwart attempts to interfere with a U.S. election.”■ And finally, if you thought cryptocurrencies were so 2018, guess again. My colleagues Nathaniel Popper and Mike Isaac reported that big internet messaging companies like Facebook and Telegram were working on their own digital coins.Adam Satariano writes about the technology industry in Europe and other parts of the globe. He is based in London. Follow him on Twitter here: @satariano.

Supported byWhen you purchase a ticket for an independently reviewed play or musical through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.By Ben BrantleyIt seems you can’t set foot in a Broadway theater these days without running into a noisy passel of high school students. Not in the lobby, though that might be refreshing given the general grayness of theatergoing audiences. The kids I’m talking about have commandeered the stage, to let the world know — preferably in song — that it’s not easy being teen.Usually embodied by performers at least a decade older than the characters they’re portraying, Broadway’s swelling throng of anguished adolescents may all share a common grudge against life (and more often than not a basic plotline). But they mercifully have different ways of expressing their grievances, in shows as different as the sophisticated, brooding “Dear Evan Hansen,” the smart-mouthed “Mean Girls” and the big-hearted “The Prom.”Now, after selling out its limited run Off Broadway last summer, the rabidly eager “Be More Chill,” which opened on Sunday at the Lyceum Theater, has joined the crowded field of shows about hormonally-overcharged outsiders longing for acceptance. While its characters, inevitably, learn that being popular isn’t everything, the show’s investors would no doubt beg to differ.Adapted by Joe Iconis (songs) and Joe Tracz (book) from Ned Vizzini’s appealing young adult novel, “Be More Chill” has already broken the Lyceum house record for a single week of ticket sales. If it sustains that momentum, it will be partly because this latest entry in the puberty musical sweepstakes has traits that undeniably set it apart from its competition.For one thing, it is — by cold critical standards — the worst of the lot, with a repetitive score, painfully forced rhymes, cartoonish acting and a general approach that mistakes decibel level (literally and metaphorically) for emotional intensity. But this ostensible amateurishness may be exactly what sells “Be More Chill” to its young target audience.Alone among Broadway musicals, “Be More Chill” feels as if it could have been created by the teenagers it portrays, or perhaps by even younger people imagining what high school will be like. Though its production values have been souped up since I saw it in August, the show’s current incarnation — which features the same cast and is again directed by Stephen Brackett — remains a festival of klutziness that you could imagine being put together in the bedrooms and basements of young YouTubers.In fact, it was through social media that “Be More Chill” acquired its ever-expanding fan base after an initial, critically dismissed run at Two River Theater in Red Bank, N.J., in 2015. The cast recording inspired a staggering number of storyboard art presentations and lip-synced video performances on YouTube and when it opened Off Broadway, its score had been streamed more than 150 million times.The plot, presented in a droller and less hysterical vein in the novel that inspired it, is a sci-fi variation on the theme of social paranoia that has long ruled teenage entertainment. A nerdy, terminally unhip hero, Jeremy Heere (a self-effacing, sweetly adenoidal Will Roland), is offered a computerized pill, called a Squip, that rewires him to run with the cool crowd. Played by Jason Tam, in the show’s slickest performance, the Squip materializes to Jeremy looking like Keanu Reeves in “The Matrix” and proceeds to dictate his life.That basic premise recalls the Eisenhower-era horror classic “Invasion of the Body Snatchers,” which gratifyingly suggested that those who rule the status quo are really mindless pod people. At first Jeremy — the anxious son of a morose single Dad (Jason SweetTooth Williams) who mopes around the house in his underwear — is ecstatic just to fit in.But like the leading characters of “Dear Evan Hansen” and “Mean Girls,” Jeremy learns that popularity comes at a dehumanizing price. His hour of reckoning takes place during a performance of a school play about a zombie apocalypse, during which he wrestles with his bad cyber angel.He is assisted by his bestie, the forever gauche Michael Mell (the highly emotive George Salazar), whom Jeremy had abandoned on the road to social success. He is also inspired by selfless love — for the madcap Christine Canigula (a hyperkinetic Stephanie Hsu).This all sounds like more fun than it is — at least for anyone over the age of 21. (That’s a generous cutoff point.) The acting, singing and dancing (choreographed by Chase Brock) are all, to put it kindly, frenetic. The set (by Beowulf Boritt), lighting (Tyler Micoleau) costumes (Bobby Frederick Tilley II) and projections (Alex Basco Koch) bring to mind bright fan fiction comic books drawn in fluorescent crayon.Despite a lively production number that brings the classic “Telephone Hour” scene from “Bye Bye Birdie” into the present (as “The Smartphone Hour,” led by the powerhouse Tiffany Mann), the show’s cultural and technological frames of reference aren’t truly of the moment. Much of “Be More Chill” could have been staged in the late 20th century, when the first “Matrix” movie came out, without seeming out of place or even prescient.But it may be its very lack of chillness that has allowed “Be More Chill” to capture so many young hearts. None of the characters on stage really look like enviably glamorous popular people, but friendly nebbishes imitating the social elite with slapdash satirical broad strokes.The rhymes in Mr. Iconis’s lyrics feel like they might have been improvised on the spot by class-cutting stoners behind the gym. (An example from the showstopping “Michael in the Bathroom”: “I’d rather fake pee/Than stand awkwardly.”)Doubtless much care and calculation has gone into remounting “Be More Chill.” But it still has the goofy karaoke quality of kids performing boisterously for other kids. It doesn’t try to dazzle its audience with glossy professionalism. For better or worse, this may be the only show on Broadway that a tween could see and think happily, “Hey, I could do that at home.”When you purchase a ticket for an independently reviewed play or musical through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.This information was last updated on Sept. 20, 2018

Supported byLet’s not let artificial intelligence put society on autopilot. By Katherine MaherMs. Maher is the chief executive of the Wikimedia Foundation.The year 1989 is often remembered for events that challenged the Cold War world order, from the protests in Tiananmen Square to the fall of the Berlin Wall. It is less well remembered for what is considered the birth of the World Wide Web. In March of 1989, the British researcher Tim Berners-Lee shared the protocols, including HTML, URL and HTTP that enabled the internet to become a place of communication and collaboration across the globe.As the World Wide Web marks its 30th birthday on Tuesday, public discourse is dominated by alarm about Big Tech, data privacy and viral disinformation. Tech executives have been called to testify before Congress, a popular campaign dissuaded Amazon from opening a second headquarters in New York and the United Kingdom is going after social media companies that it calls “digital gangsters.” Implicit in this tech-lash is nostalgia for a more innocent online era.But longing for a return to the internet’s yesteryears isn’t constructive. In the early days, access to the web was expensive and exclusive, and it was not reflective or inclusive of society as a whole. What is worth revisiting is less how it felt or operated, but what the early web stood for. Those first principles of creativity, connection and collaboration are worth reconsidering today as we reflect on the past and the future promise of our digitized society.The early days of the internet were febrile with dreams about how it might transform our world, connecting the planet and democratizing access to knowledge and power. It has certainly effected great change, if not always what its founders anticipated. If a new democratic global commons didn’t quite emerge, a new demos certainly did: An internet of people who created it, shared it and reciprocated in its use.People have always been the best part of the internet, and to that end, we have good news. New data from the Pew Research Center show that more than 5 billion people now have a mobile device and more than half of those can connect to the internet. We have passed a tipping point where more people are now connected to the internet than not. In low- and middle-income countries, however, a new report shows women are 23 percent less likely than men to use the mobile internet. If we can close that gender gap it would lead to a $700 billion economic opportunity.The web’s 30th anniversary gives us a much-needed chance to examine what is working well on the internet — and what isn’t. It is clear that people are the common denominator. Indeed, many of the internet’s current problems stem from misguided efforts to take the internet away from people, or vice versa.Sometimes this happens for geopolitical reasons. Nearly two years ago, Turkey fully blocked Wikipedia, making it only the second country after China to do so. Reports suggest a Russian proposal to unplug briefly from the internet to test its cyber defenses could actually be an effort to set up a mass censorship program. And now there is news that Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India is trying to implement government controls that some worry will lead to Chinese-style censorship.But people get taken out of the equation in more opaque ways as well. When you browse social media, the content you see is curated, not by a human editor but by an algorithm that puts you in a box. Increasingly, algorithms can help decide what we read, who we date, what we buy and, more worryingly, the services, credit or even liberties for which we’re eligible.Too often, artificial intelligence is presented as an all-powerful solution to our problems, a scalable replacement for people. Companies are automating nearly every aspect of their social interfaces, from creating to moderating to personalizing content. At its worst, A.I. can put society on autopilot that may not consider our dearest values.Without humans, A.I. can wreak havoc. A glaring example was Amazon’s A.I.-driven human resources software that was supposed to surface the best job candidates, but ended up being biased against women. Built using past resumes submitted to Amazon, most of which came from men, the program concluded men were preferable to women.Rather than replacing humans, A.I. is best used to support our capacity for creativity and discernment. Wikipedia is creating A.I. that will flag potentially problematic edits — like a prankster vandalizing a celebrity’s page — to a human who can then step in. The system can also help our volunteer editors evaluate a newly created page or suggest superb pages for featuring. In short, A.I. that is deployed by and for humans can improve the experience of both people consuming information and those producing it.Our collective wisdom is perhaps one of humanity’s greatest accomplishments, one built collaboratively across ages, geographies and cultures. Over the long run, knowledge, like water, proves more powerful than every vessel that seeks to contain it. This is because people — no matter where they are, no matter from where they come — possess intrinsic curiosity, creative souls and inquiring minds.It is clear that the right to inquiry is universal, recognized by the United Nations as applying online as well as off. But today, censorship is only part of the challenge. Without people in the loop, we risk losing the web’s fundamental humanity.If the best part of the web is indeed people, then we must keep them at the center of every policy decision and platform design. We must defend a web that is free and unfettered, and improve connections that allow creativity and collaboration. We should leave the artificial to the machines and restore humanity to the users.Katherine Maher is the chief executive and executive director of the Wikimedia Foundation, the nonprofit that owns and operates Wikipedia and related free knowledge projects.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported byWith Trump and Putin pulling out of treaties, it may be up to Congress to prevent an arms race. By Michael KreponMr. Krepon is writing a book on the rise, demise and revival of nuclear arms control. The globe’s nuclear safety net is fraying badly. Dangers of nuclear confrontations are growing not only in Europe, with decisions by the presidents of both nuclear superpowers, Donald Trump and Vladimir Putin, to withdraw from a treaty banning intermediate-range missiles; they are suddenly rising, too, in Asia, where India and Pakistan — both nuclear powers — have carried out conventional airstrikes across the Kashmir divide. Elsewhere in Asia, negotiations between Mr. Trump and North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, to begin a denuclearization process have abruptly ended. The thickest, weight-bearing strands of this safety net are treaties that have been cast aside without being replaced. With diplomacy sidelined, policymakers are left with nuclear threats to deter competitors. But deterrence rests on the underlying possibility of the use of nuclear weapons; otherwise, they would cease to deter. This can lead to tragic miscalculations. Treaties, by contrast, muffle and reduce threats. So “strengthening” deterrence without treaties and diplomacy is dangerous; it’s a recipe for threatening your way into tight corners, as India and Pakistan have again shown. Hope to find an alternative to deterrence springs eternal. Some strategies seek escape through abolition of nuclear arms or the missiles that could deliver them. Others aim for victory rather than deterrence, by putting a protective missile defense shield in space. Those brands of escapism invite failure and heighten nuclear dangers, while the combination of deterrence and diplomacy has a proven record. One of the great ironies of the Cold War is that the acceptance of mutual vulnerability backstopped three decades of nuclear arms control and, eventually, deep cuts in the nuclear arsenals of Russia and the United States.But now, killing treaties has become another form of escapism. After the Sept. 11 attacks, the George W. Bush administration announced America’s withdrawal from the Antiballistic Missile Treaty signed between the two superpowers in 1972. Mr. Putin’s response was to walk away from a 1993 Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty that prohibited land-based missiles from carrying multiple warheads, or MIRVs. Eliminating these missiles was a long-sought goal of arms control. Now Russia is deploying MIRVed missiles in the worst possible way — with easily targeted, slow-to-use liquid-fueled missiles based in silos — conditions that could provoke a launching at the first suspicion of an attack, even if unverified, for fear that they would be destroyed.In August, Moscow and Washington seem set to leave the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty signed by Ronald Reagan and Mikhail Gorbachev in 1987 — the treaty that broke the back of the Cold War nuclear arms race. Mr. Trump has announced America’s withdrawal without seeking to negotiate remedies to Russian violations. In his view, nothing less than destroying the offending Russian missiles would do. But now, Mr. Putin is free to deploy more of them.Next up is “New Start,” the sole surviving Russian-American treaty that limits longer-range missiles. It could be extended for another five years, but Mr. Trump and his national security adviser, John Bolton, have neither the diplomatic skills nor apparently an interest in extending its terms or negotiating better ones. On top of this, Mr. Trump and Mr. Bolton have championed new missile defense plans to protect every American city from any missiles from any origin.The problem with such plans is that ground-based missile defense interceptors remain woefully unable to do this — they don’t have enough time to catch up to their targets. The only theoretical hope to protect American cities lies in space-based interceptors. But that pursuit, like President Reagan’s Strategic Defense Initiative, is most likely to again fail for technical, financial and political reasons. If the United States deploys interceptors in space, Russia and China will probably pursue countermeasures in the form of space mines that could trail American space-based interceptors, at a small fraction of the cost. In other words, the hair trigger of terrestrial nuclear warfare would simply be duplicated in space.How did we manage to survive the seven harrowing decades since Hiroshima and Nagasaki without the battlefield use of nuclear weapons? Deterrence alone didn’t produce this result; the combination of deterrence and diplomacy did. This safety net was the greatest unacknowledged achievement during the Cold War. It now has very little load-bearing capacity left.The champions of jettisoning treaties have no sensible strategy or diplomatic road map to replace the nuclear safety net they are cutting. They rely on muscle flexing, dictation and unilateralism, which are mere postures, not strategy. This will not end well. Russia and China have the means to counter an America that seeks to escape deterrence and denigrate diplomacy. Nuclear dangers will rise as a result.When the executive branch loses its moorings, it’s up to Congress to steady the ship of state. Avoiding a new arms race will be difficult but not impossible. Mr. Putin knows he would lose it because America has superior technology and Russia’s economy is in bad shape. China’s strategy has been to avoid overspending on nuclear weapons while pursuing other means of negating American power, including with space and cyber warfare. Building up American nuclear capacity is not an effective counter to either of those.Instead, Congress could choose to reduce nuclear excess through the power of the purse. Ordinarily, the job of orchestrating restraint is best left to the executive branch, and besides, Congress doesn’t do nuance very well. But temporizing actions are probably the most we can do until there is a change in government, and stabilizing matters over the next two years will be hard to do. Still, a new arms race isn’t foreordained — yet — and with enough common sense, we can avoid one.The more Mr. Trump flails, Mr. Bolton tears down and Mr. Putin sows fear and broadcasts threats, the more Capitol Hill is obliged to step up. The nuclear safety net that previous generations bequeathed to us is in desperate need of repair. For the time being, there’s nowhere else to turn but Congress.Michael Krepon is a co-founder of the Stimson Center, a Washington-based policy research institute. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported byBy Nicholas CaseyMARACAIBO, Venezuela — The city was collapsing long before the lights went out. But then came the blackout — and with it, anarchy.For days and nights, unruly crowds sacked 523 stores in Maracaibo as residents stood on their porches wielding weapons to guard against looters. Dozens died in hospitals. Bodies decomposed in the morgue. And what little food remained in refrigerators rotted away as the nation went hungry.I drove to Maracaibo with a photographer for The New York Times to witness the chaos wrought by a devastating blackout — likely the largest ever in a country already crumbling from an economic crisis and a shortage of food, medicine and water. Along the way, smoke hovered over the road as business owners burned the trash left behind by looters. At night, only the car’s headlights pierced the darkness, outlining the silhouettes of pedestrians.The entire nation was plunged into darkness for six days straight. But here in Maracaibo, a sweltering coastal city, the nightmare continued beyond a week: Desperate people searched for food in stores laid bare or shuttered, and formed long lines in front of the few bakeries brave enough to open. Many businesses were reduced to shattered glass and smoldering piles.transcriptHosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Alexandra Leigh Young, Annie Brown and Jonathan Wolfe, and edited by Lisa Tobin and Marc GeorgesThirty million people went without power for nearly a week, making the country’s troubled political and economic situation even worse.michael barbaroFrom The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today: An economic collapse, a crumbling infrastructure, a contested presidential election — Venezuela was already in crisis. Then the power went out. It’s Wednesday, April 10. Nick, tell me the story that you were told about what happened in Venezuela last month.nicholas caseySo it was a Thursday last month in Maracaibo. And David Ardila, who’s a publicist there —speaker[SPEAKING SPANISH]nicholas casey— was sitting at his desk when the lights went out.[music]michael barbaroNick Casey covers Latin America for The Times.nicholas caseyThis wasn’t anything that surprised him because the lights were always going out in the city.speaker[SPEAKING SPANISH]nicholas caseyThis is a place on the edge of the electric grid in Venezuela, so it was not unusual for the lights to go out for a number of hours. There were rolling blackouts there. Usually by 4:00 p.m., the lights are back on. But then he got a call from his wife, who said there was not just a power outage in Maracaibo, but all over Venezuela. This was something that wasn’t usual. This was something no one had really seen or remembered before.speaker[SPEAKING SPANISH]nicholas caseyWe’re talking about a country of 30 million people, and almost no one has electricity.michael barbaroSo the power is out across Venezuela.nicholas caseyAcross the entire country. And that means things get very ugly, very fast.michael barbaroWhat had happened to trigger this blackout?nicholas caseyAccording to the electricians’ union, it was a brush fire that took place over some cables that were feeding the country. But you have to ask yourself, if one fire is able to turn off all the power to a country, there must be a bigger problem.michael barbaroRight.nicholas caseyAnd the problem is that Venezuela is in the middle of an economic collapse. That means that key infrastructure in the country isn’t getting built, and what’s there isn’t getting repaired. On top of this, there’s massive political unrest.archived recordingJuan Guaidó, the country’s self-proclaimed leader, is calling for his supporters to take to the streets again to step up pressure on President Nicolás Maduro and demand new elections. Maduro has also called on his supporters to rally today. The power struggle between Guaidó and Maduro has brought the country to a standstill, and that is a huge electricity —nicholas caseyThere are still two men who say that they’re the president of Venezuela, and Guaidó actually has the support of America and 50 other countries, as well. This is extremely unresolved. Donald Trump is saying that Maduro needs to step down and let Guaidó be the president.michael barbaroSo in this moment when the power goes out, to 30 million Venezuelans, it’s not entirely clear who runs the country or who will be solving the blackout.nicholas caseyNot at all. And it’s becoming clear to everybody that Maduro can’t do even the most basic thing that a government should be doing, which is keeping the lights on. So these two events aren’t directly connected to each other, but you suddenly see that one is starting to feed off of the other, which is this discontent that brought Guaidó to the forefront in Venezuelan politics is now being doubled by the fact that Maduro can’t provide electricity. It’s underscoring this question which everybody has asked in Venezuela, which is, if you can’t provide power, are you actually providing a state?[music]nicholas caseySo I decided to go to Maracaibo, which is Venezuela’s second-largest city. It’s also at the end of the electric grid. So we knew that this was going to be a place where there was going to be problems, and the problems were going to be very big.nicholas caseySo you can hear the sound of the generator here, which is out of a small truck. And there’s basically a line of phones where everybody has plugged in.nicholas caseyYou have to remember that Maracaibo sits on the Caribbean coast. It’s a really hot, sweltering city. The old joke in Maracaibo was that it’s the coldest city in Venezuela, because everybody has air conditioning. But now, there was no air conditioning. And after a few days, things started to come apart.speaker[SPEAKING SPANISH]nicholas caseyPeople were running out of food, and it started with the looting. There were big crowds of more than a thousand people that suddenly gathered, looking for food. And these crowds first went to the grocery stores. They sacked almost every single supermarket that was in Maracaibo, but then they kept going. They started taking anything that was available. People were suddenly taking furniture. They were taking washers and dryers. They were taking all of these appliances and anything that they could after this massive economic crisis. You can suddenly imagine if you could get your hands on something that was of value and worth a lot, you would go for it. You would take it, especially if there’s no state. There’s no one patrolling.michael barbaroThere’s no one patrolling.nicholas caseyNo one. I talked to many store owners who said that they were waiting for the police to come, and the police didn’t come. Part of the reason for that is because the police themselves, their paychecks are worthless. People aren’t showing up to the jobs. Things are just coming apart this way.nicholas casey[SPEAKING SPANISH]speaker[SPEAKING SPANISH]nicholas casey[SPEAKING SPANISH]nicholas caseyI talked to one woman who was selling vegetables out in front of one of the places that got completely torn apart. People were setting fire to the stores.speaker[SPEAKING SPANISH]nicholas caseyAnd I asked her why they were setting fire, and she said —nicholas casey[SPEAKING SPANISH]speaker[SPEAKING SPANISH]nicholas caseyIt wasn’t actually out of spite. It was because it was dark, and they couldn’t see inside the store.michael barbaroBurn the store in order to see what you are stealing.nicholas caseyBurn the store, take as much as you can, and leave it to be burned to the ground, and that’s what we saw by the time we were there.speaker[SPEAKING SPANISH]nicholas caseyA lot of these places were just in embers at that point. There were so few places that were remaining, so few pharmacies that were even remaining.speaker[SPEAKING SPANISH]nicholas caseyI ran into one man who had tongue cancer. He was a professor.speaker[SPEAKING SPANISH]nicholas caseyAnd at that point, you could see his face was completely bulging in tumors that were taking over the sides of his chin, below his jaw, affecting how he could speak.speaker[SPEAKING SPANISH]nicholas caseyHe hadn’t been treated for weeks, and he told me that he didn’t think he had any hope of being able to find medication at that point, because there is nowhere that was going to be able to sell it to him.speaker[SPEAKING SPANISH]nicholas caseyThere was so much looting that seemed to be taking place simultaneously across Maracaibo, and then there were firefights that were breaking out between the looters and the owners, as people were trying to break into stores.michael barbaroFirefights as in, there’s gunfire.nicholas caseyGunfire.^[crowd yelling]^nicholas caseyThis was just a total anarchy in parts of Maracaibo. Now, these people start to end up in the hospitals. They’re going to hospitals, at that point, that didn’t have any electricity. So how are you going to take care of people with gunshot wounds when there’s no electricity?[music]nicholas caseyI needed to see what was going on, but you can’t get into hospitals in Venezuela if you’re a journalist. Many of them are militarized. People have been arrested for going into these hospitals.michael barbaroThey don’t want you to see.nicholas caseyThis is really at the core of what Maduro can’t do in this country. This is very sensitive to the government. They can’t treat people. So this has even put the hospital staff and the doctors under threat. They’re afraid to speak. But I was able to find a couple of doctors who were able to talk to me behind closed doors in another facility.michael barbaroAnd here, we’re actually going to change the voices of these doctors so that their identities are protected and they don’t get in trouble for talking to you.nicholas caseyRight. And these doctors were telling me when I met them that this had been a place where it was already almost impossible to treat patients.speaker[SPEAKING SPANISH]nicholas caseyThere was very little water. They were having to wash their hands using bottled water. They were running out of soap. They didn’t have medicines that they needed. And then suddenly, they didn’t have any electricity.speaker[SPEAKING SPANISH]nicholas caseyOne of the doctors I talked to said —speaker[SPEAKING SPANISH]nicholas caseyThe first thing that hit you was the smell.speaker[SPEAKING SPANISH]nicholas caseyThere is a stench that is horrific there. And as the people were coming in with injuries from these lootings that were taking place, gunshot wounds, glass wounds because they had broken down the windows, doctors didn’t know how to treat them initially. They were trying to treat them. And in some cases, according to one of the medical officials I talked to, people were getting amputations that they didn’t necessarily need, because this was the only way that they were going to save this person was doing an amputation, when ordinarily, if you’d had everything that you needed, you would have been able to do something else for this person besides take off their arm or their leg.michael barbaroThis blackout is literally costing people their limbs.nicholas caseyYes. And on top of that, even in the morgue, there’s no power.speaker[SPEAKING SPANISH]nicholas caseySo the bodies are starting to rot there.[music] That’s during the day. But then the night starts to hit, and you have to continue doing work as people are coming in to try to get treated. People were pulling out their cell phones to use the light by their cell phones to try to treat people at that point. This doctor told me that you could hear people screaming.speaker[SPEAKING SPANISH]nicholas caseyBut you couldn’t tell where the screams were necessarily coming from, because the whole place was dark. At a certain point, a couple of days into this, there was a robbery, when an armed group came in and went to the third floor of one of the hospitals and started to steal from the patients who were there.speaker[SPEAKING SPANISH]nicholas caseyTaking advantage of the fact that you couldn’t see anyone in there.speaker[SPEAKING SPANISH]nicholas caseySo one thing that the doctor said was most difficult about this was there was no information on what was going on or when this was going to be over.speaker[SPEAKING SPANISH]nicholas caseyFinally, the government did come out and say it was an act of sabotage that caused this —speaker[SPEAKING SPANISH]nicholas casey— blaming the U.S. and the opposition for what had happened. But this wasn’t something the doctors believed themselves. This was the equivalent of having no information at all still.michael barbaroAnd how, in the government’s telling, is the U.S. somehow responsible?nicholas caseyThey said that it was a cybernetic electromagnetic attack that had been launched from the U.S., likely in Houston and Chicago. And that this was an effort by Donald Trump for regime change. Shut down the electricity and you can help the opposition by making Maduro look like he can’t run the country.michael barbaroAnd how would that even work?nicholas caseyThere is such technology out there, but he didn’t provide any evidence, any pictures, anything showing that that’s what had happened. And there are satellite photos showing that there was a brush fire that day.michael barbaroAnd are people buying this story, that the U.S. is behind the blackout?nicholas caseyWhether you buy it says a lot about how you feel about Maduro. If you follow Maduro, you’ve probably followed him into a lot of other explanations as well, which largely is based on the idea that the economic crisis of Venezuela has to do with the U.S. and its imperial desires to bring Venezuela down. So of course you see this blackout as probably being their sabotage. But if you’re tired of Maduro, if you’ve been suffering this economic collapse and you think he’s the cause for it, then you’re not going to believe him for a second. You’re going to see this as one more very strong piece of evidence as to why he needs to go, because he can’t keep the power on.michael barbaroAnd I guess it’s kind of telling that a blackout would be drawn into this political standoff between these two, Guaidó and Maduro.nicholas caseyEverything now is being used as political ammunition. And when you have something that affects 30 million people at the same time, of course that’s going to be the center of the political debate. Why aren’t these lights on now?[music]michael barbaroWhat ended up happening to the power while you were there? Did it ever come back on?nicholas caseyThere was one neighborhood that we were at that had been without power for eight days at that point. When we got there, people were sitting on their lawns in the middle of the dark drinking coffee. And just when we were about to leave, suddenly, all the lights came back on.speaker 1[SPEAKING SPANISH] [LAUGHTER]speaker 2[SPEAKING SPANISH]speaker 1[SPEAKING SPANISH]nicholas caseyAnd it was just this really magical moment. They were really happy. But when you think about it, if these are the moments of hope that people were having, that the lights are going to come back on, that means it’s a long way that Venezuela has to go to actually have real moments of hope.michael barbaroAnd how long did the lights stay on? Not too long. We were there and the lights were still on in that neighborhood. But since then, they’ve been going on and off throughout Maracaibo. And they just don’t know when they’re going to have power and when they’re not. And I think it left not just me, but almost any Venezuelan terrified about what might be coming next. You just saw a level of violence and disregard for society which I don’t think Venezuelans had seen on that scale in most of their lifetimes. What’s the next thing that’s going to disappear that you couldn’t imagine disappearing, and then what’s going to happen when that’s gone? Nick, thank you very much.nicholas caseyThanks, Michael.michael barbaroWe’ll be right back.[music]michael barbaroHere’s what else you need to know today.archived recording[CHANTING]archived recording (benjamin netanyahu)[SPEAKING HEBREW]michael barbaroOn Wednesday morning, Israel’s prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, was poised to win a fourth consecutive term, edging out his biggest rival, Benny Gantz, a former military chief, in a closely watched election.archived recording (benjamin netanyahu)[SPEAKING HEBREW]michael barbaroDespite his apparent lead, the election represented a humbling political test for Netanyahu, a conservative figure whose decade-long record of economic progress and diplomatic victory was overshadowed by high-profile indictments over his alleged abuse of power.archived recording[CHANTING] The final results may not be known for days until the ballots of soldiers, prisoners, and hospital patients are counted. And —archived recording (william barr)This process is going along very well, and my original timetable of being able to release this by mid-April stands.michael barbaroIn testimony before the House of Representatives on Tuesday, Attorney General William Barr said he would deliver the special counsel’s report to Congress within the next week.archived recording (william barr)I identified four areas that I feel should be redacted, and I think most people would agree. The first is grand jury information, 6(e) material. The second is information that the intelligence community believes would reveal intelligence sources and methods. The third are information in the report that could interfere with ongoing prosecutions.michael barbaroBarr said he would redact passages, but said he would identify the reason for each redaction, an assurance that prompted skepticism from Democratic leaders, like Senator Chuck Schumer —archived recordingDo you trust Barr? Do you trust that these redactions are going to be done in compliance?archived recording (chuck schumer)Look, I’ll wait till I see it. But thus far, I don’t think Barr has conducted himself in a manner that earns people’s trust. Color me dubious that he’s going to be fair, unless he proves otherwise.michael barbaroThat’s it for “The Daily.” I’m Michael Barbaro. See you tomorrow.Everto León, 58, sat on a pitch-black road where the power outage continued, a short drive from the worst of the looting. His silhouette, barely visible in night, showed the bulging tumors under his jaw from the cancer that was killing him.“I don’t have the medicine I need, and the chance of getting it is now nill,” said Mr. León, saying the rioters had sacked every pharmacy around him.The power failure has become the latest battleground in a country where two men now claim to be president.Juan Guaidó, the opposition head who is recognized by more than 50 countries as Venezuela’s legitimate leader, has offered it as evidence that the state is failing. President Nicolás Maduro has blamed the United States, which it says worked with the opposition to sabotage the electrical grid — putting Mr. Guaidó under investigation, and sending intelligence agents to detain a well-known journalist for an alleged role.The spectacular power failure was most likely result of a simple brush fire that destabilized the country’s electrical grid, union leaders said. It underscored the lack of maintenance of key infrastructure and the years of mismanagement of the country’s economy, which have become the twin hallmarks of the nation’s economic collapse.And it laid bare Venezuela’s grim reality: When there is no power, there is no rule of law.“You could hear doctors in the hospital yelling at their patients in the dark: ‘Bear with it!’ ‘Just hold on!’ But that does nothing for the pain,” said a doctor in a public hospital in Maracaibo, who asked not to be named, fearing government retaliation. “Six days without power in the 21st century, how is this even possible?”It began so much like Venezuela’s many other outages that few even took note at first.Maracaibo sits in Venezuela’s most populous state and was the first to receive electricity generations ago. But today it lies on the far western edge of the electric grid, a sweltering Caribbean city whose high energy consumption has left the power flickering on and off for the last three years.When the lights went out, around 1 p.m. on a Thursday, David Ardila, a publicist, tried to go about his work as usual.“We thought it was normal electricity rationing,” he said.The rolling blackouts usually ended before nightfall, Mr. Ardila knew. But then he got a call from his wife. This was no normal power outage. It was not confined to their neighborhood, she said.The entire country — all of its 30 million people — was now without power.“There was no television, no radio, there was no Wi-Fi, there was nothing,” Iveth Figueroa said. “We were completely incommunicado.”Nevertheless, the problems seemed manageable. When cellphones began to power down on Friday, a neighbor fired up a generator and let others recharge.Caribbean SeaMaracaiboCaracasvenezuelacolombiabrazil200 MILESBy The New York TimesBut food, always in scarce supply in Venezuela, was becoming a concern in the neighborhood. On Saturday, many began to realize any meat they had in their refrigerators would soon be rotting. Using stoves still connected to the gas supply, some residents cooked the meat, while others tried salting and drying it.As the day wore on, people began to rush the few gas stations that remained open as lines of hundreds of cars snaked around blocks in the sun. A protest called by the opposition was put down violently by police. Mr. Maduro, silent until the weekend, appeared on television but said little about how the government planned to address the issue.“They gave us no information,” Ms. Figueroa said, worrying that popular resentment would soon boil over. “It was like one of those disaster films they used to make, like ‘Soylent Green’ or ‘Underworld.’ We would have to develop our own ways to survive.”The first gunshots sounded on Monday outside Omar Chávez’s neighborhood.Mr. Chávez had just returned from looking for medicine for his daughter and stocking up on dollars when he heard the beginning of a riot. He got to a safe place and kept watch.“We could see through binoculars they were looting everything,” Mr. Chávez said. “The shop owners were trying to defend their stores by opening fire, not to kill, but I think there were many dead. No one was controlling this mob.”A group of more than a thousand people had descended on a nearby business district, breaking glass windows and raiding merchandise, according to merchants. Venezuela’s national guard, plagued by months of desertions, was nowhere to be seen.“In the middle of this blackout there was no authority,” said Miguel Sierra, who was selling laundry detergent when the looters arrived.As night fell, the crowd started setting stores alight.“I think they started the fire because the lights were out — there was no other way to see what there was to take,” said Marbella Jiménez, who runs an informal stall.As the riots continued, hospitals braced for the injured, who soon showed up with gunshot wounds or injuries from broken glass. But the hospitals, which barely had soap because of the shortages, now also had no electricity.A top medical official, speaking on condition of anonymity for fear of government reprisals, said 47 people died in Maracaibo’s main medical center.“At least half could be attributed to the crisis,” the official said, citing patients who died of heart failure or complications from untreated diabetes.The medical officials also said several young men who arrived with gunshot wounds received amputations rather than less severe treatments that could have resulted in fatal complications if the blackout continued.“You were entering the lion’s den, it was a dark cave,” said another doctor about the hospital. He declined to be named fearing the government. “The worst was the smell: it was a dirty, bloody smell, and the heat made the atmosphere thick and awful.”In one hospital, powered only by a generator that lit up the emergency room, an armed group entered unseen and robbed patients on two floors, according to doctors. The maternity ward in another hospital had no windows, and pregnant women had to be relocated to an outdoor plaza, doctors said.This week, Mr. Maduro explained what his government had determined to be the cause of the power outage: a “cyber electromagnetic attack,” organized by the American government out of Houston and Chicago.The explanation left Ms. Figueroa and many others unconvinced on the eighth day of the outage in her neighborhood. But then a miracle caught her attention: The lights at last flickered back on.A cheer erupted as street lamps lit the faces of the neighbors who had been sitting around on a dark lawn. But no one knew how long the electricity would stay or when it would be gone again.“It’s something new, the great leveler that we all live through equally,” Ms. Figueroa said.Gustavo Ocando Alex contributed reporting from Maracaibo.

Supported byWheelsBy Jim MotavalliGoing back at least a decade, cars have been targeted by hackers, some who ended up working with the industry, others acting maliciously. But vehicles now carry far more electronic equipment, and autonomous driving, relying on sensors, cameras and radar, is on the horizon, with all kinds of ripe new targets.Concern that cars could be seriously hacked — by criminals, terrorists or even rogue governments — has prompted a new round of security efforts on the part of the auto industry.As far back as 2010, a disgruntled former employee at Texas Auto Center in Austin used a co-worker’s account to log into company software used for car repossession. He disabled over 100 cars, and owners who were up to date on their payments suddenly found their vehicles honking furiously, and unable to start.In 2015, a veteran hacker named Samy Kamkar built a device for under $100 that he said could find, unlock and remotely start any General Motors car equipped with the OnStar communications system. Luckily, Mr. Kamkar was acting as a “white hat,” and not selling his OwnStar device to unscrupulous hackers.“I worked with G.M. to resolve that issue,” he said, and that particular vulnerability is gone. “Cars are getting more secure, but it’s a long cycle to get the necessary new software and hardware installed.”Dan Flores, a G.M. cybersecurity and safety spokesman, confirmed the collaboration with Mr. Kamkar. “We recognize the importance of the work that researchers, like Samy, do to help advance the work in this area,” he said in an email.Securing cars is a big challenge, which is why some companies that traditionally prefer to go it alone have teamed up to share best practices.Digital threats to self-driving cars, according to a 2018 University of Michigan report, “include hackers who would try to take control over or shut down a vehicle, criminals who could try to ransom a vehicle or its passengers and thieves who would direct a self-driving car to relocate itself to the local chop-shop.”The average car has over 150 million lines of computer code, and some have even more than a Boeing 787, according to a 2018 KPMG report. That complexity, the report said, “creates a real risk of cyberattack — a risk we fear many companies in the automotive industry may be underestimating.”That view is widespread. “From my perspective, automakers were a little surprised and caught off guard by this threat,” said Doug Newcomb, a senior industry analyst at Wards Intelligence. “They added all this connectivity, but got ahead of themselves and don’t always think of the vulnerabilities that exist. It’s an ongoing issue, not a fix-it-and-forget-it thing.”Failing to protect consumers can be costly, said Steve Tengler, a principal at the consulting company Kugler Maag Cie who has worked at Ford, Nissan and G.M., and was a senior director of connected vehicle cybersecurity at Honeywell.Automakers are legally bound to provide state-of-the-art protection for their cars, Mr. Tengler said. “Legal precedents show that it’s not enough to provide a product that is kind of safe,” he said. “Companies don’t have to put themselves out of business to provide the safest technology, but they do have to work within their commercial ability.”Mr. Tengler said the industry was a frequent target. “Every automaker has been hacked — every one of them,” he said. “Attacks aren’t a matter of if, but when and how.”Once a car is out of warranty, automakers are used to cutting or at least loosening their ties. But hacking issues mean that protection will most likely require factory-to-junkyard monitoring.In 2015, Fiat Chrysler recalled 1.4 million cars and trucks after Chris Valasek and Charlie Miller demonstrated, in a Wired magazine article, that they could remotely control a Jeep Cherokee’s brakes, radio, wipers and other functions by gaining access through its UConnect infotainment system.The company declined to comment on any subsequent security changes.Dr. André Weimerskirch, vice president for cybersecurity and functional safety at Lear Corporation, said that automakers had made “huge improvements” in recent years, and that joint efforts involving the industry, academia and standards organizations had also led to gains.Most car hackers have been wearing those white hats, with no criminal intent, but imagining what could happen led to the 2015 formation of the Automotive Information Sharing and Analysis Center, known as Auto-ISAC. Most of the world’s automakers are members.Faye Francy, the center’s executive director, described the Jeep episode as “a good wake-up call for the industry.”“The hackers are smart guys, very educated,” she said. “It’s not simple to do what they did. We’re fortunate that there hasn’t been another breach, but it’s not impossible.”Not impossible, but still difficult. Ron Plesco, a principal at KPMG Cyber Security Services, agrees that hacking into a car’s driver controls requires “a lot of knowledge and effort.”“It’s not as easy as Hollywood claims it is,” he said.That’s one reason we haven’t seen more major attacks. But Mr. Plesco argues that today there isn’t much incentive for thieves, since the identity information stored onboard vehicles is fairly limited.“But,” he added, “that’s about to change as we do more purchasing through the dashboard of the car. The automobile is becoming another computer that can be hacked.”New infotainment and autonomous features are important selling points, but because most consumers assume their cars are safe, automakers tend to keep cybersecurity news in the background. Much is happening behind the curtain, however. Some private security firms say they are signing on with major automakers to provide expert protection.“There are multiple ways for hackers to get in, and it’s the job of the whole industry to defend against it,” said Dan Sahar, a vice president at Upstream Security in Israel. “Just one hack can cost a manufacturer tens of millions of dollars, and that doesn’t include the brand damage. And the threat is getting more serious.”According to Mr. Sahar, “2018 saw more than 60 documented automotive-related cybersecurity incidents, a sixfold increase in just four years.”Upstream is working with “a handful” of manufacturers, Mr. Sahar said. “Automakers are focused on cybersecurity, but few say they can do it on their own,” he said.A 2019 Upstream report extrapolates a cost topping $1.1 billion for a breach that requires a large recall. The opportunity will certainly be there for criminal hackers. Juniper Research of Britain estimated in a 2018 report that by 2023 some 775 million cars would be connected to the web in some way (up from 330 million in 2018).Mr. Tengler, of Kugler Maag Cie, said it was easy to picture the danger that hackers posed to autonomous vehicles — potentially redirecting them as part of a theft. But the Jeep hack proved “it doesn’t matter if someone is driving,” he said. “If they can take control of the car, the vulnerable technology is already there.”Thieves have stolen cars by using fairly simple electronic technology, some of it freely available. A device that amplifies the signals from a car’s remote can be used to unlock the target vehicle’s doors. Mr. Kamkar said he had built such devices from off-the-shelf components for approximately $50.“It’s a lot simpler than people think,” he said.Other devices include a radio transmitter that cycles through huge numbers of possible combinations until they “crack” the target car’s key fob. In 2006, that was reportedly how the soccer star David Beckham’s armor-plated BMW X5 was stolen in Madrid. A second X5 belonging to Mr. Beckham was also stolen.“Car thieves used to have crowbars; now they use laptops,” said Mr. Plesco at KPMG.Jono Anderson, also a principal at KPMG, said the auto industry needed to learn from aerospace.“They’re very familiar with this kind of security,” Mr. Anderson said, “but it’s new to the auto industry. Maybe it’s possible to hack the entertainment system in a plane and get free movies, but it’s virtually impossible to hack the actual communications.”

Supported byFURTHER READINGBy Alexandra Alter and Concepción de LeónNearly a month after Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, delivered his report on Russian interference in the 2016 election — and whether Donald Trump and his associates conspired with Russia or obstructed justice — to Attorney General William P. Barr, members of Congress, and the public, are still waiting to read the report’s contents.This week, Barr told Congress that he plans to make a redacted version of the Mueller report public, possibly by next week.While we wait to read the report — here are some books to occupy you the meantime.Based on rare interviews with Mueller, as well as with more than 150 former government and city officials, this book covers the former FBI director’s tenure and legacy, as well as the evolution of the Bureau. Graff explains that while FBI agents were once focused on solving crimes, post 9/11 they have also been tasked with preventing them, especially potential terrorist threats. The job has become more complex, in other words, and Graff argues that as the person who led the institution through this transition, Mueller is the most influential leader of the FBI since J. Edgar Hoover. When Trump fired F.B.I. director James Comey in May 2017, it triggered a rapid cascade of events within the Department of Justice that ultimately led to Mueller’s appointment as special counsel. In this mega-best seller, Comey describes his role in the high-stakes investigation into ties between the Trump campaign and Russia. Writing in the Times, Michiko Kakutani praised Comey’s eye for detail, referring to him as “what Saul Bellow called a “first-class noticer.”“Comey’s book fleshes out the testimony he gave before the Senate Intelligence Committee in June 2017 with considerable emotional detail, and it showcases its author’s gift for narrative — a skill he clearly honed during his days as United States attorney for the Southern District of New York,” she wrote.This scathing indictment (no, not in the technical sense) of the Trump administration is from the former deputy director of the F.B.I., who was fired last year right before his planned retirement. McCabe is unsparing in the book: “The work of the F.B.I. is being undermined by the current president.”Our critic Dwight Garner took appreciative note of McCabe’s “lean” prose: “The first sentence demands to be read in the voice of Jack Webb from “Dragnet”: “Between the world of chaos and the world of order stands the rule of law.”Bharara, the former United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York, was also fired by Trump in 2017, which seems to be a great way to get a book deal.Bharara oversaw a significant investigation into insider trading by Wall Street executives, and also investigated Russian money laundering. Lately, he has become an omnipresent commentator on the myriad investigations into Trump (in addition to his new book and regular TV appearances, he has a popular podcast, “Stay Tuned With Preet”).But when it comes to the timing and content of the Mueller report, he’s as much in the dark as the rest of us, apparently.Harding, a correspondent for The Guardian, explores Trump’s decades-long entanglements with Russia in what his publisher describes as a conspiracy “so huge it involves international espionage, offshore banks, sketchy real estate deals, the Miss Universe pageant, mobsters, money laundering, poisoned dissidents, computer hacking, and the most shocking election in American history.” Harding delves into Trump’s deals with Deutsche Bank and examines Trump’s campaign manager Paul Manafort’s extensive ties to Russian and Ukranian oligarchs.(It’s an exhaustive account, but by now, it’s a bit out of date: The book came out in 2017, many indictments and plea deals ago.)Isikoff and Corn, two veteran journalists in Washington, lay out how Russia unleashed hackers and internet trolls to disrupt the 2016 presidential election. They also explore the puzzling ties between Trump and his associates and Russian officials. In a review for The Times, the Times journalist Steven Lee Myers, the author of “The New Tsar: The Rise and Reign of Vladimir Putin,” wrote: “For anyone who believes in the better angels of American politics, ‘Russian Roulette’ is a depressing book. The Russian hacking, it is now clear, simply exploited the vulgarity already plaguing American political campaigns, which churn on spin and strategy (and money) far more than vision or values.”In “The Apprentice,” Miller, a Pulitzer Prize-winning reporter who has covered national security for The Washington Post, details how Russia exploited American technology platforms to spread misinformation, damaging Hillary Clinton and boosting Trump, while at the same time hacking and releasing Democratic emails, further inflaming partisan divisions in an already nasty campaign. He also explores links between Trump and his associates and Russia, but steers clear of speculation about what the ultimate revelations regarding Trump’s possible complicity might be.“Miller makes no pretense about knowing the end of the story and acknowledges that at this point he does not know whether the special counsel, Robert Mueller, will accuse the president of any crimes,” a critic wrote in The Washington Post.McFaul, a former ambassador to Russia, was responsible for what became known as the “Reset,” a political plan put in place during the Obama administration to reboot relations with the country. McFaul argues that he and Barack Obama were able to drive forward a range of policies, but that the election of Vladimir Putin halted their plans. McFaul became persona non grata in Russia. He and his family were closely surveilled, and McFaul was subjected to cyber attacks meant to discredit him, such as YouTube videos suggesting he was a pedophile or a fake Twitter account that posted criticisms of the Russian elections under his name. “McFaul combines both analytical and personal perspectives to offer a fascinating and timely account of the current crisis in the relationship between Russia and the United States,” our reviewer wrote. This is the definitive account of the explosive investigation that brought down President Richard Nixon, by two now-famous reporters from The Washington Post. More recently, with his latest best-seller, “Fear,” Woodward has unleashed his investigative skills on the Trump administration.It took Kenneth Starr, a former special counsel, around four years and $40 million to complete his investigation into President Bill Clinton’s affair with Monica Lewinsky, and whether Clinton committed perjury and obstructed justice in an effort to cover up the scandal. The salacious account is a door-stopper, almost 500 pages long.Several publishers, including Skyhorse, Scribner and Melville House, as well as the audiobook publisher Audible, have already announced their plans to publish the Mueller report and have made the books available on Amazon for pre-order. (Presumably the pages are still blank.)Or, if you can’t wait, you can always reread some of Mueller’s vividly detailed indictments. Those documents lay out contours of the investigation so far, which has led to 199 charges against 34 people and three companies.Alexandra Alter writes about publishing and the literary world. Before joining The Times in 2014, she covered books and culture for The Wall Street Journal. Prior to that, she reported on religion, and the occasional hurricane, for The Miami Herald.
   @xanalter    @xanalter Concepción de León is a digital staff writer covering news and culture for the Books section.  

Supported byBy Michael Schwirtz and Sheera FrenkelCampaigning for Ukraine’s presidential election had just begun to heat up when the authorities announced they had thwarted a Russian plot to use Facebook to undermine the vote.Unlike the 2016 interference in the United States, which centered on fake Facebook pages created by Russians in faraway St. Petersburg, the operation in Ukraine this year had a clever twist. It tried to circumvent Facebook’s new safeguards by paying Ukrainian citizens to give a Russian agent access to their personal pages.In a video confession published by the S.B.U., Ukraine’s domestic intelligence service, a man it identified as the Russian agent said that he resided in Kiev, Ukraine’s capital, and that his Russian handlers had ordered him “to find people in Ukraine on Facebook who wanted to sell their accounts or temporarily rent them out.”“As I learned,” said the man, who was not identified by name, “their goal was to use those accounts to publish political ads or to plant fake articles.”The operation suggested that Russia’s tactics had evolved somewhat over the last three years. The change, it seems, is partly a response to security measures adopted by Facebook after the 2016 campaign in the United States when, officials say, the social media company was used to widely disseminate disinformation and inflame partisan tensions.The question ahead of the election in Ukraine, scheduled for Sunday, is whether Facebook has evolved as well.The vote presents Facebook with an opportunity to take what it has learned and confront Russia over what the Kremlin considers its home turf. Ukraine has long been a testing ground for all manner of so-called Russian active measures, and was among the first hit with the kind of electoral manipulation later deployed against the United States, France and other countries.Facebook officials insist the company is ready. It fired an opening salvo in January when it announced the takedown of a coordinated effort involving nearly 150 fake accounts, which appeared to mimic a disinformation campaign by Russia’s Internet Research Agency during the 2018 midterm election campaign in the United States. On Tuesday, the company announced another takedown involving nearly 2,000 Russia-linked pages, groups and accounts, some involved in posting disinformation about Ukraine.But officials and candidates in Ukraine complain that despite some improvements, Facebook’s response to what should have been an obvious threat has been sluggish.A new tool meant to increase transparency around political advertising on Facebook came online only on March 18, less than two weeks before the election. Some candidates have said they found it difficult to protect their accounts with the company’s most basic security feature: the little blue check mark Facebook uses to help users distinguish genuine pages from impostors.“What they have done so far amounts to a dereliction of duty,” said Nina Jankowicz, a global fellow at the Washington-based Wilson Center’s Kennan Institute, who focuses on Russian disinformation.“They’ve known about the election in Ukraine this spring for years,” she said of Facebook officials. “There is no reason so many things should be happening last minute.”Although the personal account of Volodymyr Zelensky, the presidential front-runner, was verified quickly, the Facebook and Instagram pages for his campaign were not, Mr. Zelensky’s team said, despite its requests.Mikhail Fedorov, who handles digital strategy for Mr. Zelensky’s campaign, said its Facebook pages had been drowned out by fakes almost indistinguishable from the real site.Facebook representatives, he said, had been slow to respond when the campaign tried to report a problem. Facebook said it had removed pages impersonating Mr. Zelensky’s that were reported to the company.Out of frustration, Mr. Fedorov said, the campaign created its own anti-sabotage tool, which he called “a mobile online group,” that alerts Mr. Zelensky’s followers to the presence of a fake account and urges them to overwhelm it with supportive comments.Few doubt that Ukraine is in Russia’s cross hairs. Ahead of the election, activity has surged from Russian-linked bots and a proliferation of fake accounts impersonating the candidates, “aimed at the provoking of hostilities between Ukrainians in social networks,” Facebook in particular, said Serhii Demediuk, the chief of Ukraine’s cyber police. He said his office also had observed an uptick in requests on dark web forums for unauthorized remote access to Ukraine’s voter registry.“The analysis of these incidents indicates that a significant number of those publications are originating from the territory of the Russian Federation,” he said.No amount of security is 100 percent insurmountable, particularly against Russia, which has devoted enormous resources to its global disinformation efforts, said Nathaniel Gleicher, the head of cybersecurity policy at Facebook.“The threat actors are going to continue to innovate and try to find new ways to route around security that we put in place,” he said in an interview. “But each security protocol we put in place slows down the actors, forces them to work harder and gives your team more chances to catch them.”Far from reacting slowly to the threats facing Ukraine, he said, Facebook has been active in confronting disinformation campaigns emanating from Russia since at least April last year. That is when the company announced it had closed 135 Facebook and Instagram accounts controlled by Russia’s Internet Research Agency, which has been linked to the 2016 election tampering in the United States.The effort to pay Ukrainian citizens to host political advertisements and fake articles on their personal pages appeared tailor-made to circumvent new security measures designed to prevent foreigners from purchasing political advertisements in Ukraine and elsewhere.In his video confession, the man identified as the Russian agent, whose face was blurred to conceal his identity, said that the goal was to disseminate political advertisements in support of pro-Russian candidates as well as “publish fake news or kompromat” about candidates Moscow opposed.“The plan was for the culprit to manipulate the consciousness of the Ukrainian voters in the interest of the Kremlin,” the S.B.U. said in a statement about the case.An S.B.U. spokeswoman declined to provide further details. While Ukrainian officials are often quick to demonize Russia, the case aligns with what Facebook officials say will be the future of disinformation.Increasingly, Facebook officials say, disinformation will be spread not by foreign actors, but by citizens looking to sway the opinions of fellow citizens. Political parties will hire professional companies to spread false news about their opponents, using fake accounts and bots. And foreigners who want to meddle with a country’s elections will look to hire people locally, through bribery or trickery, to do their bidding.During the midterm elections in the United States, Facebook already faced some of those problems. Americans spread disinformation to fellow Americans, and a group of Democratic technical experts decided to experiment with swaying the Alabama Senate race.Some Ukrainian officials warn that the risk of disinformation campaigns from within the country are as high or higher than those directed by Russia.“I am more concerned with the negative campaigning from another candidate than from Russia,” said Aleksey Ryabchin, a member of Parliament from the party of Yulia Tymoshenko, another presidential candidate.By itself, Facebook can do little to completely insulate Ukraine from election interference. The country is under siege by Russia both on the internet and in the physical world. Russia essentially controls two separatist regions in eastern Ukraine, where a war that began in 2014 has claimed about 13,000 lives. In recent years, cyberattacks believed to have originated in Russia have shut down power plants and transportation infrastructure.During the last presidential election in 2014, hackers breached the servers of Ukraine’s election commission and programmed its website to publish a fake result when the polls closed. Ukrainian officials thwarted the scheme at the last minute, although Russian government television reported the fake result anyway.The Kremlin has denied involvement in efforts to manipulate elections in Ukraine or anywhere else, though officials have said they have no ability to prevent patriotic-minded Russians from attempting to do so.“These are the rules of the game. If it’s an open platform then of course there will be people who will try to use this platform for their purposes,” said Dmitry Polyanskiy, Russia’s first deputy permanent representative to the United Nations.“We can’t be responsible for any publication on Facebook or on Twitter,” he said, “and we do not believe in these conspiracy theories that somewhere people are sitting and clicking mice putting these publications on the web.”An earlier version of this article misspelled the surname of the person who handles digital strategy for the campaign of Volodymyr Zelensky, the front-runner in Ukraine’s election. He is Mikhail Fedorov, not Fedotov.

Supported byMr. Zuckerberg detailed plans to integrate Instagram, WhatsApp and Messenger so that people can communicate privately and directly across networks. The shift follows years of scandal for Facebook, which has been criticized over its handling of user data and the spread of disinformation. [Read our analysis of Mr. Zuckerberg’s post.]My focus for the last couple of years has been understanding and addressing the biggest challenges facing Facebook. This means taking positions on important issues concerning the future of the internet. In this note, I’ll outline our vision and principles around building a privacy-focused messaging and social networking platform. There’s a lot to do here, and we’re committed to working openly and consulting with experts across society as we develop this.•••Over the last 15 years, Facebook and Instagram have helped people connect with friends, communities, and interests in the digital equivalent of a town square. But people increasingly also want to connect privately in the digital equivalent of the living room. As I think about the future of the internet, I believe a privacy-focused communications platform will become even more important than today’s open platforms. Privacy gives people the freedom to be themselves and connect more naturally, which is why we build social networks.Today we already see that private messaging, ephemeral stories, and small groups are by far the fastest growing areas of online communication. There are a number of reasons for this. Many people prefer the intimacy of communicating one-on-one or with just a few friends. People are more cautious of having a permanent record of what they’ve shared. And we all expect to be able to do things like payments privately and securely.Public social networks will continue to be very important in people’s lives — for connecting with everyone you know, discovering new people, ideas and content, and giving people a voice more broadly. People find these valuable every day, and there are still a lot of useful services to build on top of them. But now, with all the ways people also want to interact privately, there’s also an opportunity to build a simpler platform that’s focused on privacy first.I understand that many people don’t think Facebook can or would even want to build this kind of privacy-focused platform — because frankly we don’t currently have a strong reputation for building privacy protective services, and we’ve historically focused on tools for more open sharing. But we’ve repeatedly shown that we can evolve to build the services that people really want, including in private messaging and stories.I believe the future of communication will increasingly shift to private, encrypted services where people can be confident what they say to each other stays secure and their messages and content won’t stick around forever. This is the future I hope we will help bring about.We plan to build this the way we’ve developed WhatsApp: focus on the most fundamental and private use case — messaging — make it as secure as possible, and then build more ways for people to interact on top of that, including calls, video chats, groups, stories, businesses, payments, commerce, and ultimately a platform for many other kinds of private services.This privacy-focused platform will be built around several principles:Private interactions. People should have simple, intimate places where they have clear control over who can communicate with them and confidence that no one else can access what they share.Encryption. People’s private communications should be secure. End-to-end encryption prevents anyone — including us — from seeing what people share on our services.Reducing Permanence. People should be comfortable being themselves, and should not have to worry about what they share coming back to hurt them later. So we won’t keep messages or stories around for longer than necessary to deliver the service or longer than people want them.Safety. People should expect that we will do everything we can to keep them safe on our services within the limits of what’s possible in an encrypted service.Interoperability. People should be able to use any of our apps to reach their friends, and they should be able to communicate across networks easily and securely.Secure data storage. People should expect that we won’t store sensitive data in countries with weak records on human rights like privacy and freedom of expression in order to protect data from being improperly accessed.Over the next few years, we plan to rebuild more of our services around these ideas. The decisions we’ll face along the way will mean taking positions on important issues concerning the future of the internet. We understand there are a lot of tradeoffs to get right, and we’re committed to consulting with experts and discussing the best way forward. This will take some time, but we’re not going to develop this major change in our direction behind closed doors. We’re going to do this as openly and collaboratively as we can because many of these issues affect different parts of society.For a service to feel private, there must never be any doubt about who you are communicating with. We’ve worked hard to build privacy into all our products, including those for public sharing. But one great property of messaging services is that even as your contacts list grows, your individual threads and groups remain private. As your friends evolve over time, messaging services evolve gracefully and remain intimate.This is different from broader social networks, where people can accumulate friends or followers until the services feel more public. This is well-suited to many important uses — telling all your friends about something, using your voice on important topics, finding communities of people with similar interests, following creators and media, buying and selling things, organizing fundraisers, growing businesses, or many other things that benefit from having everyone you know in one place. Still, when you see all these experiences together, it feels more like a town square than a more intimate space like a living room.There is an opportunity to build a platform that focuses on all of the ways people want to interact privately. This sense of privacy and intimacy is not just about technical features — it is designed deeply into the feel of the service overall. In WhatsApp, for example, our team is obsessed with creating an intimate environment in every aspect of the product. Even where we’ve built features that allow for broader sharing, it’s still a less public experience. When the team built groups, they put in a size limit to make sure every interaction felt private. When we shipped stories on WhatsApp, we limited public content because we worried it might erode the feeling of privacy to see lots of public content — even if it didn’t actually change who you’re sharing with.In a few years, I expect future versions of Messenger and WhatsApp to become the main ways people communicate on the Facebook network. We’re focused on making both of these apps faster, simpler, more private and more secure, including with end-to-end encryption. We then plan to add more ways to interact privately with your friends, groups, and businesses. If this evolution is successful, interacting with your friends and family across the Facebook network will become a fundamentally more private experience.People expect their private communications to be secure and to only be seen by the people they’ve sent them to — not hackers, criminals, over-reaching governments, or even the people operating the services they’re using.There is a growing awareness that the more entities that have access to your data, the more vulnerabilities there are for someone to misuse it or for a cyber attack to expose it. There is also a growing concern among some that technology may be centralizing power in the hands of governments and companies like ours. And some people worry that our services could access their messages and use them for advertising or in other ways they don’t expect.End-to-end encryption is an important tool in developing a privacy-focused social network. Encryption is decentralizing — it limits services like ours from seeing the content flowing through them and makes it much harder for anyone else to access your information. This is why encryption is an increasingly important part of our online lives, from banking to healthcare services. It’s also why we built end-to-end encryption into WhatsApp after we acquired it.In the last year, I’ve spoken with dissidents who’ve told me encryption is the reason they are free, or even alive. Governments often make unlawful demands for data, and while we push back and fight these requests in court, there’s always a risk we’ll lose a case — and if the information isn’t encrypted we’d either have to turn over the data or risk our employees being arrested if we failed to comply. This may seem extreme, but we’ve had a case where one of our employees was actually jailed for not providing access to someone’s private information even though we couldn’t access it since it was encrypted.At the same time, there are real safety concerns to address before we can implement end-to-end encryption across all of our messaging services. Encryption is a powerful tool for privacy, but that includes the privacy of people doing bad things. When billions of people use a service to connect, some of them are going to misuse it for truly terrible things like child exploitation, terrorism, and extortion. We have a responsibility to work with law enforcement and to help prevent these wherever we can. We are working to improve our ability to identify and stop bad actors across our apps by detecting patterns of activity or through other means, even when we can’t see the content of the messages, and we will continue to invest in this work. But we face an inherent tradeoff because we will never find all of the potential harm we do today when our security systems can see the messages themselves.Finding the right ways to protect both privacy and safety is something societies have historically grappled with. There are still many open questions here and we’ll consult with safety experts, law enforcement and governments on the best ways to implement safety measures. We’ll also need to work together with other platforms to make sure that as an industry we get this right. The more we can create a common approach, the better.On balance, I believe working towards implementing end-to-end encryption for all private communications is the right thing to do. Messages and calls are some of the most sensitive private conversations people have, and in a world of increasing cyber security threats and heavy-handed government intervention in many countries, people want us to take the extra step to secure their most private data. That seems right to me, as long as we take the time to build the appropriate safety systems that stop bad actors as much as we possibly can within the limits of an encrypted service. We’ve started working on these safety systems building on the work we’ve done in WhatsApp, and we’ll discuss them with experts through 2019 and beyond before fully implementing end-to-end encryption. As we learn more from those experts, we’ll finalize how to roll out these systems.We increasingly believe it’s important to keep information around for shorter periods of time. People want to know that what they share won’t come back to hurt them later, and reducing the length of time their information is stored and accessible will help.One challenge in building social tools is the “permanence problem”. As we build up large collections of messages and photos over time, they can become a liability as well as an asset. For example, many people who have been on Facebook for a long time have photos from when they were younger that could be embarrassing. But people also really love keeping a record of their lives. And if all posts on Facebook and Instagram disappeared, people would lose access to a lot of valuable knowledge and experiences others have shared.I believe there’s an opportunity to set a new standard for private communication platforms — where content automatically expires or is archived over time. Stories already expire after 24 hours unless you archive them, and that gives people the comfort to share more naturally. This philosophy could be extended to all private content.For example, messages could be deleted after a month or a year by default. This would reduce the risk of your messages resurfacing and embarrassing you later. Of course you’d have the ability to change the timeframe or turn off auto-deletion for your threads if you wanted. And we could also provide an option for you to set individual messages to expire after a few seconds or minutes if you wanted.It also makes sense to limit the amount of time we store messaging metadata. We use this data to run our spam and safety systems, but we don’t always need to keep it around for a long time. An important part of the solution is to collect less personal data in the first place, which is the way WhatsApp was built from the outset.People want to be able to choose which service they use to communicate with people. However, today if you want to message people on Facebook you have to use Messenger, on Instagram you have to use Direct, and on WhatsApp you have to use WhatsApp. We want to give people a choice so they can reach their friends across these networks from whichever app they prefer.We plan to start by making it possible for you to send messages to your contacts using any of our services, and then to extend that interoperability to SMS too. Of course, this would be opt-in and you will be able to keep your accounts separate if you’d like.There are privacy and security advantages to interoperability. For example, many people use Messenger on Android to send and receive SMS texts. Those texts can’t be end-to-end encrypted because the SMS protocol is not encrypted. With the ability to message across our services, however, you’d be able to send an encrypted message to someone’s phone number in WhatsApp from Messenger.This could also improve convenience in many experiences where people use Facebook or Instagram as their social network and WhatsApp as their preferred messaging service. For example, lots of people selling items on Marketplace list their phone number so people can message them about buying it. That’s not ideal, because you’re giving strangers your phone number. With interoperability, you’d be able to use WhatsApp to receive messages sent to your Facebook account without sharing your phone number — and the buyer wouldn’t have to worry about whether you prefer to be messaged on one network or the other.You can imagine many simple experiences like this — a person discovers a business on Instagram and easily transitions to their preferred messaging app for secure payments and customer support; another person wants to catch up with a friend and can send them a message that goes to their preferred app without having to think about where that person prefers to be reached; or you simply post a story from your day across both Facebook and Instagram and can get all the replies from your friends in one place.You can already send and receive SMS texts through Messenger on Android today, and we’d like to extend this further in the future, perhaps including the new telecom RCS standard. However, there are several issues we’ll need to work through before this will be possible. First, Apple doesn’t allow apps to interoperate with SMS on their devices, so we’d only be able to do this on Android. Second, we’d need to make sure interoperability doesn’t compromise the expectation of encryption that people already have using WhatsApp. Finally, it would create safety and spam vulnerabilities in an encrypted system to let people send messages from unknown apps where our safety and security systems couldn’t see the patterns of activity.These are significant challenges and there are many questions here that require further consultation and discussion. But if we can implement this, we can give people more choice to use their preferred service to securely reach the people they want.People want to know their data is stored securely in places they trust. Looking at the future of the internet and privacy, I believe one of the most important decisions we’ll make is where we’ll build data centers and store people’s sensitive data.There’s an important difference between providing a service in a country and storing people’s data there. As we build our infrastructure around the world, we’ve chosen not to build data centers in countries that have a track record of violating human rights like privacy or freedom of expression. If we build data centers and store sensitive data in these countries, rather than just caching non-sensitive data, it could make it easier for those governments to take people’s information.Upholding this principle may mean that our services will get blocked in some countries, or that we won’t be able to enter others anytime soon. That’s a tradeoff we’re willing to make. We do not believe storing people’s data in some countries is a secure enough foundation to build such important internet infrastructure on.Of course, the best way to protect the most sensitive data is not to store it at all, which is why WhatsApp doesn’t store any encryption keys and we plan to do the same with our other services going forward.But storing data in more countries also establishes a precedent that emboldens other governments to seek greater access to their citizen’s data and therefore weakens privacy and security protections for people around the world. I think it’s important for the future of the internet and privacy that our industry continues to hold firm against storing people’s data in places where it won’t be secure.Over the next year and beyond, there are a lot more details and tradeoffs to work through related to each of these principles. A lot of this work is in the early stages, and we are committed to consulting with experts, advocates, industry partners, and governments — including law enforcement and regulators — around the world to get these decisions right.At the same time, working through these principles is only the first step in building out a privacy-focused social platform. Beyond that, significant thought needs to go into all of the services we build on top of that foundation — from how people do payments and financial transactions, to the role of businesses and advertising, to how we can offer a platform for other private services.But these initial questions are critical to get right. If we do this well, we can create platforms for private sharing that could be even more important to people than the platforms we’ve already built to help people share and connect more openly.Doing this means taking positions on some of the most important issues facing the future of the internet. As a society, we have an opportunity to set out where we stand, to decide how we value private communications, and who gets to decide how long and where data should be stored.I believe we should be working towards a world where people can speak privately and live freely knowing that their information will only be seen by who they want to see it and won’t all stick around forever. If we can help move the world in this direction, I will be proud of the difference we’ve made.

Supported byChanges beyond the control of the region’s leaders are spurring a new Middle East.By Thomas L. FriedmanOpinion ColumnistAMMAN, Jordan — For the last half-century the politics of the Middle East has been shaped by five key pillars, but all five are now crumbling. A new Middle East is aborning — but not necessarily the flourishing one that people imagined in the 1990s. This one is being shaped more by Twitter memes than by U.S. diplomats, more by unemployment than by terrorism, more by upheavals on the streets than by leaders in palaces, more by women than by men. Can’t say where it will all settle out, but for now, beware falling pillars.How so? For starters, there was always a deep U.S. involvement in shaping the future of this region. But just look around today: The U.S. doesn’t even have ambassadors in Egypt, Turkey, Iraq, the United Arab Emirates, Jordan or Saudi Arabia, and the U.S. ambassador to Israel, a former Trump bankruptcy lawyer, is so enthralled with the right-wing Jewish settler movement that he is more a propagandist than a diplomat. Bye-bye American pie.Second, there has always been some kind of Israeli-Palestinian peace process pushing for the best two-state solution. Again, bye-bye. Today, in truth, the U.S. and Israel seem to be engaged in a search for the best one-state solution, meaning permanent Israeli security control over the West Bank and East Jerusalem, along with some form of deep Palestinian autonomy.Third, Arab governments could always guarantee jobs for their populations in their bureaucracies or security services — jobs where you could come late, leave early and work another job on the side. Also, bye-bye. With falling oil prices and rising populations, virtually every Arab state today is trying to figure out how to shed government workers and outsource services.Jordan’s King Abdullah recently told a group of U.S. military visitors that what keeps him up at night is just one thing — and it’s not ISIS or Al Qaeda. It’s the fact that 300,000 Jordanians are unemployed and 87 percent of them are between the ages of 18 and 39, prime working years.For weeks there have been sit-ins by jobless students outside Abdullah’s palace and protest marches across Jordan by the unemployed, hungry and hopeless. At the same time, the unemployed in Gaza last week began a “revolt of the hungry” against Hamas’s economic mismanagement, and similar street protests erupted in Algeria and Sudan, aimed at their failing, long-entrenched autocrats. Arab Spring 2.0 anyone?The fourth crumbling pillar: The days when information flowed only from the top down, and Arab governments could control the voices in their countries, are long gone. With Twitter, Facebook and WhatsApp widely diffused in the Arab world, information now moves horizontally and people — using their real names — now tweet the most insulting things at their leaders.(It is increasingly obvious that social networks and cyber tools are making efficient autocrats, like China, even more efficient. But they seem to be making soft authoritarians, like Jordan, more fragile, and they are making Western democracies increasingly ungovernable.)Finally, men could dominate women through formal and informal religious, cultural and legal norms. But the recent high-profile cases of young women fleeing male control in Saudi Arabia and the U.A.E. spoke for many Arab women who are no longer so willing to submit to male guardianship. This is especially true because women in many countries, Jordan, for instance, are now out-graduating men in both high school and universities.However, without a change in the laws of marriage, inheritance, divorce and child custody — all of which favor men — all the women doing well in school will never be able to realize their full potential in the work force, where they are still badly underrepresented. Something has to give. Meanwhile, it’s hard for men to marry without a job. Having lots of men who have never held power, held a job or held a girl’s hand is a prescription for social unrest — especially when they’re all on Twitter.Welcome to the new Middle East!Where does this go? Leaders across the region are learning that they “can’t rely on 20th-century tools to keep the populations quiet any longer,” remarked Marwan Muasher, the former foreign minister of Jordan, who now oversees research on the Middle East at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. The Arab Spring uprisings in 2011 “broke the fear taboo in many Arab countries, and the collapse in oil prices since 2014 has broken the money bargain.” Citizens now declare: If you can’t guarantee me a government job, I get to say whatever I want.Does that mean Jordan, for example, should change overnight to democracy? I asked Muasher. “No,” he said, “but there has to be a process of greater power-sharing between the governments and the people and civil society institutions. You can’t keep asking people to sacrifice, to give up government jobs and subsidies, to accept higher taxes, but still not have a real voice in their own governance.”So, is all the new news bad news? Actually not — at least in Jordan.King Abdullah has been slow to share power, but he remains a decent leader, trying to develop a decent country of 10 million that now hosts 1.3 million Syrian refugees. His most important initiative may be his push seven years ago to launch a tech/start-up hub in Jordan that is also a new factor in the region. For the first time here you have hundreds of private-sector start-ups — independent of the government — working on social problems as business opportunities.Luma Fawaz, the C.E.O. of Oasis500, the main Jordanian tech accelerator, brought me together with a group of young Jordanian starter-uppers. So I met Bashar Arafeh, managing director in the Middle East and Africa for IrisGuard, whose technology includes a cellphone with lenses that can immediately identify you — through your iris — with near 100 percent accuracy. Connected to a United Nations refugee database using blockchain, it’s being used, among other ways, to check if someone is indeed a Syrian refugee, who is supposed to receive aid, or someone else, who wants a ration card to sell on the black market. Refugees call the phone the “fingerprint of the eye” machine.I met Zaid Farekh, who did well enough writing business software to start a local accelerator of his own, called Propeller Incorporated. “I want to stay in Amman,” he told me, “because I believe we can build $100 million companies here. It’s just a matter of time.”I met Dina Shawar, C.E.O. of Adam Tech Ventures, which provides seed money to tech start-ups trying to reshape their industries. She also built a discussion forum for Arab women tech entrepreneurs that recently brought over a team from London’s Royal Academy of Dramatic Art to teach women starter-uppers how to project themselves at a board meeting or make a financial pitch.I met Aysar Batayneh, who recently helped create the Jordan Trail, a 400-mile (650-kilometer) hiking path. It has spawned tourist hospitality businesses all along the way. I also met his wife, Mary Nazzal-Batayneh, a founding partner of 17 Asset Management, which is taking the 17 U.N. S.D.G.s (sustainable development goals, like gender equality, clean water, sanitation and cheap, clean energy) and looking for ways to leverage private and government capital to create business opportunities to achieve them.And I met Hussam Hammo, founder of Tamatem Games, which publishes mobile games culturally relevant for the Arab market — the fastest-growing games market in the world. He credited Oasis500 with giving him a second chance after his first company went bankrupt and the local business culture “would not support anyone who failed in a start-up.’‘So, no, the new Middle East isn’t doomed to upheaval. In Jordan, at least, it’s the story of a race between a lot of bad trends (like too many young people who say: I work to get a government job so I have a job where I don’t have to work) and a new growth mind-set trying to scale. Jordan will be getting almost 20 percent of its energy from solar by 2020; the Ministry of Labor is trying all sorts of radical ideas to get more young people hired in the private sector.The problem is that the hour is late. Political reform has been postponed too long and old cultural norms are still deeply rooted outside of Amman. As one Jordanian minister put it to me: “We have to do everything. We have to do it all right. And we have to do it fast.”The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Thomas L. Friedman is the foreign affairs Op-Ed columnist. He joined the paper in 1981, and has won three Pulitzer Prizes. He is the author of seven books, including “From Beirut to Jerusalem,” which won the National Book Award.  @tomfriedman • Facebook 

Supported byAll of the weddings right here on one handy page for you.Katherine Tsui and James Dalphond met at the University of Massachusetts Lowell, from which they graduated, and where the groom received a master’s degree in computer science, and the bride both a master’s degree and Ph.D. in that subject.Ms. Tsui and Mr. Dalphond grew up only a mile away from each other in Dracut, but they did not meet until they were graduate students at the University of Massachusetts Lowell.With a shared interested in robotics, they worked in adjoining labs, occasionally partnering on robotics outreach events.“While I find most software engineers to be a bit introverted, I thought James was really smart and very sociable and outgoing,” Ms. Tsui said. “I tend to keep a very close circle of friends, and he quickly began entering that circle.”In summer 2014, they took some time away from the lab but began collecting data on each other while backpacking and camping in Nova Scotia.ADVERTISEMENT“I found James to be a very organized person who is a lot of fun to be around,” Ms. Tsui said. “He also had a very dry, sarcastic sense of humor, like I do.”They began taking similar trips — “We’re both very outdoorsy and love the ocean,” Ms. Tsui said — and she became that someone he most enjoyed having in his camp.“Her curiosity is what makes her stand out,” Mr. Dalphond said. “I have seen her sit down on a hike and stare at a clump of moss and why it’s in that particular place before we can move on, and I enjoy watching how much she can enjoy figuring stuff out.”After completing her Ph.D. in October 2014, Ms. Tsui moved to Guilford, Conn., to take a postdoctoral position at a social robotic lab at Yale, but maintained a long-distance friendship with Mr. Dalphond, who continued his research at the University of Massachusetts Lowell. Two months later, they were officially dating.“I loved his willingness to come and see me on a moment’s notice and throw hot dogs on the grill or go for a long drive and explore new places together,” Ms. Tsui said.Their relationship continued to blossom, and in October 2016, Ms. Tsui and Mr. Dalphond moved into an apartment together in Watertown, Me.In February 2018, they attended a Valentine’s Day event at the New England Aquarium called “That’s A-Moray,” where people could leave messages for their dates on plastic fish suspended in the Giant Ocean tank.On one of those fish, Mr. Dalphond wrote: “Kate Tsui, will you marry me?”Read More.Allison Rachel Leifer and Marc Phillip Zivotovsky were married March 16 at the Lighthouse at Chelsea Piers. Cantor Bruce Halev officiated.Mrs. Zivotovsky, 30, is a digital director in the merchandising department at Macy’s in New York. She graduated from Emory University.She is a daughter of Dr. Deena Harris and Dr. Andrew Leifer of New York. The bride’s father is an emergency department physician at Mount Sinai West and Mount Sinai St. Luke’s hospitals in New York. Her mother is a psychiatrist and psychoanalyst in private practice, also in New York.Mr. Zivotovsky, also 30, is a director of finance and accounting at SkyBridge Capital, an alternative asset management company in New York. He is also a certified public accountant. He graduated from Indiana University Bloomington.He is a son of Joyce Zivotovsky of Plainview, N.Y., and the late Michael L. Zivotovsky. The groom’s mother is a Spanish teacher in the Levittown Public School district in Levittown, N.Y. His father was a partner in Mazars USA, an accounting firm, also in New York.The couple met through friends in New York in December 2014.Sara Sean Rhodin and Tyler Andrew Lechtenberg were married March 16 in a self-uniting Quaker service at the Arch Street Quaker Meeting House in Philadelphia. Sarada Peri, a friend of the couple, led the ceremony.Ms. Rhodin, 35, is a history teacher at Madeira School, an all-girls private school in McLean, Va. She graduated summa cum laude from George Washington University and received a master’s degree from Harvard in regional studies encompassing Russia, East Europe and Central Asia. She was a Fulbright scholar in Estonia from 2006-7.The bride is a daughter of Cynthia C. Rhodin and William K. Rhodin of Newtown, Pa. Her father is a senior consultant in King of Prussia, Pa., at Walker Consultants, a parking design and consulting firm that consults to the parking garage industry. Her mother is a retail saleswoman at Newtown Book and Record Exchange, an independent book and record store.Mr. Lechtenberg, 37, is the managing principal of Fenway Strategies, a speech-writing and communications firm in Washington. He previously worked on Barack Obama’s presidential campaign, starting as a field organizer for the 2008 Iowa caucuses and rising to senior presidential speechwriter during his two terms in the White House. The groom graduated from the University of Iowa.The groom is a son of Deborah D. Lechtenberg and James J. Lechtenberg of Dundee, Iowa. His father is a corn and soybean farmer in Dundee. His mother is the retired postmaster of Lamont, Iowa.The couple met in April 2017 at a restaurant in Washington.Robyn Ilana Finkelstein and Alex Jay Tolston were married March 16 at the Nobu Eden Roc, a hotel in Miami Beach. Rabbi Robert A. Davis officiated.Mrs. Tolston, 39, is the president of Chip Bakery in Miami. She graduated from the University of Florida.She is the daughter of Ronda C. Finkelstein and Ronald D. Finkelstein of Fort Lauderdale, Fla. The bride’s father is the senior managing principal of MBAF Certified Public Accountants in Fort Lauderdale. Her mother retired as a pediatric nurse at Pediatric Associates, also in Fort Lauderdale.Mr. Tolston, who is 38 and works in Miami, is the executive vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary of the Hemisphere Media Group, which owns and operates five Hispanic cable networks in the United States, two Latin American cable networks and a broadcast television network in Puerto Rico. He graduated magna cum laude from Tulane University and received a law degree from New York Law School.He is a son of Dr. Evelyn Tolston and Gregory Tolston of New York. The groom’s mother is the president and medical director of Allergy and Immunology on Madison in New York. She also sits on the board of directors of the Joseph Brodsky Memorial Fellowship Fund, a nonprofit organization based in New York and named for the acclaimed poet and essayist. The fund provides two fellowships annually, one for an artist and the other for a poet, allowing both to work and live in Italy for three months.His father is the executive vice president and chief financial officer of Royal Seafood Baza, a holding company for NetCost Markets, a supermarket chain in the New York metropolitan area. He is also a member of the board of directors of Savoy Bank.The groom’s first marriage ended in divorce.The couple met in August 2017 at a sushi restaurant in Miami Beach.Anna Kaschel and Bryan Zanisnik were married March 15 in Audubon Park in New Orleans. Thomas Sweetland, affiliated with the Order of Interbeing, officiated incorporating the Zen Buddhist tradition of Thich Nhat Hanh, the founder of the order. They married under the Southern live oak known as the Tree of Life, or the Étienne de Boray Oak.Ms. Kaschel, 32, until February was a fashion designer at H &amp; M, the international fashion brand. She graduated from the Royal Academy of Fine Arts in Antwerp, BelgiumShe is the daughter of Gabriele M. Kaschel of Hürtgenwald, Germany, and Helmut P. Kaschel of Düren, Germany. Her father, who is retired, was an independent metalworker working mainly on residential projects and a restoration of the Leopold-Hoesch-Museum in Düren. Her mother oversees the library and acquisitions department at the Institute of Telecommunications at Rwth Aachen University in Germany.Mr. Zanisnik, 39, is a visual artist focusing on sculpture, installation and performance, and has taught and lectured across the United States. His work has been on display at MoMA PS1 and the Queens Museum, both in Queens, and the Brooklyn Museum. From 2016 to 2017 his outdoor installation, “Monument to Walken,” with concrete heads of the actor Christopher Walken seemingly sprouting from the ground, was on view at Socrates Sculpture Park in Long Island City, Queens. In 2017 another installation, “Philip Roth Presidential Library,” featured a series of drywall columns ripped apart in places exposing copies of Mr. Roth’s novels on wood shelves, at the Queens Museum, and in 2016 at Locust Projects, an alternative art space in Miami. The groom graduated magna cum laude from Drew University, and received an M.F.A. in combined media from Hunter College.He is the son of Robert M. Zanisnik of Flemington, N.J., and the late Carol A. Zanisnik. His father is a senior vice president for sales at the Diversified Global Graphics Group in Jersey City. His mother was a part-time teacher at St. Rose of Lima Academy, a Roman Catholic prekindergarten and elementary school in Short Hills, N.J.Ms. Kaschel and Mr. Zanisnik met in 2014 at a New Year’s Eve party in Brooklyn on the day she arrived from Germany for a few months. They kept in touch, and started dating long-distance only after her visit to New York in 2016, during which they celebrated the Fourth of July together at a barbecue.Kathryn Vinsant Smith and William McKendree Korengold were married March 16 at the St. Charles Avenue Presbyterian Church in New Orleans. The Rev. Donald Frampton, a Presbyterian minister, performed the ceremony.The couple met in 2011 at a Halloween party at Trinity College, from which they graduated.Ms. Smith, 29, is an account manager for Amazon Web Services in Arlington, Va.She is the daughter of Lynn B. Smith and Dr. Charles C. Smith III of New Orleans. The bride’s father is the physician president of Internal Medicine Specialists, a private practice in New Orleans. Her mother is the owner of LBS Digital Concierge Services, an administrative and project management service also in New Orleans.Mr. Korengold, 27, is on the executive board of Ourisman Automotive of Virginia, a family-owned business of dealerships located in Northern Virginia; his father, Daniel L. Korengold, is the president of the company, working from Alexandria. The groom also manages the company’s Toyota dealership in Fairfax, Va.He is also the son of Martha L. Dippell. The groom’s parents live in Chevy Chase, Md. The groom’s mother serves as the president of the board of the National Museum of Women in the Arts in Washington.Regina Marie Ronquillo Escano and Mark Ryan Zappi were married March 16 at St. Thomas Apostle Catholic Church in Washington. Msgr. Andrew Wadsworth performed the ceremony.Mrs. Zappi, 30, is an associate director for audiology professional practices at the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association in Rockville, Md. She graduated from Marymount Manhattan College and received a clinical doctoral degree in audiology from the University of Washington.She is the daughter of Rebecca Ronquillo Escano and Roberto R. Escano of Cebu, the Philippines.Mr. Zappi, 29, is an associate at Booz Allen Hamilton in Washington, where he specializes in cyber transformation, a comprehensive change to the company’s security mind-set to enable larger strategic business objectives. He graduated from Boston College and is studying for a master’s in public administration at George Washington University.He is a son of Catherine Keller Zappi and Robert Zappi of Vienna, Va.The couple met in August 2015 at St. Thomas Apostle Church.

Supported byGood Monday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)The Trump administration is nearing a trade deal with China that would roll back tariffs on both sides of the Pacific, Ana Swanson and Keith Bradsher of the NYT write.What America could get:• The deal would “require Beijing to make big purchases of American agricultural and energy goods and to lower some barriers that prevent American companies from operating in China.”• The potential agreement “would expand markets for American financial services firms and farmers, in part by requiring that China buy large amounts of energy and farm goods, like liquid natural gas and soybeans.”• “The Trump administration has also been pushing China to accept an enforcement mechanism that would enable the United States to quickly reinstate tariffs if Beijing fails to live up to specific promises.”And China:• “In return, the United States would most likely drop its tariffs on at least $200 billion of the $250 billion worth of Chinese imports currently subject to American levies.”• Beijing is also “pushing for the elimination of all of the Trump tariffs, a person with knowledge of the negotiations said.””But “early details indicate it would do little to substantively change the way China has long done business and would not force Beijing to curtail cyber theft or the subsidies that the administration complains create an uneven playing field for American companies.”• “The language aimed at China’s discrimination against foreign companies, like its antimonopoly law or standard-setting processes, is probably too vague to be enforceable,” according to an unidentified source.• “The pact also doesn’t alter China’s tight restrictions on data,” and “many of the big purchases that Beijing is promising would occur over a number of years, which could give China further leverage.”More: How Apple prevailed in the trade war. And why President Trump’s battle hasn’t helped narrow the trade deficit.The Chinese telecom giant plans to take the U.S. government to court for banning federal agencies from using its products, Ray Zhong and Paul Mozur of the NYT report.• “The move could be aimed at forcing the United States government to more publicly make its case against the Chinese equipment maker.”• “It is part of a broad push by Huawei to defend itself against a campaign led by the United States to undermine the company, which Washington sees as a security threat.”• Huawei’s lawsuit will challenge a section in a defense-spending law that blocks federal agencies from using its equipment. The company will argue that the provision amounts to a “bill of attainder,” or a legislative act that singles out a person or group for punishment without trial.• Huawei’s C.F.O., Meng Wanzhou, has already sued Canadian authorities for arresting her and moving to extradite her to the U.S.• Not everyone thinks that Ms. Meng’s legal action is sensible. “The quest for justice is everyone’s right,” Tim Culpan of Bloomberg Opinion writes, “yet Huawei risks coming off as belligerent instead of the calm and trustworthy partner it’s trying to portray.”On Friday, the Trump re-election campaign — including its manager, Brad Parscale, and an adviser, Newt Gingrich — called for a nationwide “wholesale” 5G network, that would allow the government to control the spectrum and find a way to share it with carriers.“A 5G wholesale market would drive down costs and provide access to millions of Americans who are currently underserved,” Kayleigh McEnany, the campaign’s national press secretary, told Politico.The news was met with surprise as it’s at odds with current White House policy. Axios says it was unable to find telecom policy advisers inside the Trump administration “who knew in advance from the Trump campaign that it would make this announcement.” The telecoms industry has long argued against nationalized 5G networks.The campaign later walked back its comments. “The White House sets the policy on 5G and all issues,” Ms. McEnany said in a statement. “The campaign fully supports the president’s priorities and his policy agenda.”But it raises concerns about what happens next. The administration previously contemplated taking a role in 5G, as detailed in a National Security Council memo leaked early last year. Brendan Carr, an F.C.C. commissioner, called such a move “China-like nationalization.”In the wake of Amazon pulling out of plans for a campus in New York City, the NYT studied the tactics the company has used to drive hard bargains all over the country.• Amazon closed its only warehouse in Texas after state officials pushed the company to pay nearly $270 million in back taxes in 2010. Texas eventually waived the taxes in exchange for new warehouses.• South Carolina officials denied Amazon a sales tax break in 2010, but gave the company an exemption after it threatened to stop hiring there.• The company has collected over $2.4 billion in taxpayer subsidies for its locations, according to Good Jobs First, a nonprofit that tracks corporate tax breaks.• “They are just as cutthroat as can be,” Alex Perlstein, vice president of Market Street Services, told the NYT.• And Amazon has no regrets, according to the NYT: “Asked recently by a business publication if Amazon would change anything about the headquarters search in retrospect, Holly Sullivan, the Amazon executive who led the search, said: ‘You know, no. I think it was rewarding for us internally.’”Meanwhile, the NYT editorial board supports New York officials’ efforts to lure Amazon back: “Progressives shouldn’t stand athwart progress, yelling stop.”More: How Hollywood disrupted Jeff Bezos’s life as Amazon sought to disrupt its business. And Mr. Bezos’s security chief is said to be preparing a 90-page report accusing the National Enquirer’s parent company of running its exposé to curry favor with Saudi investors.A collection of the top tech minds in the country assembled at the NYT’s New Work Summit last week in Half Moon Bay, Calif. Here’s what some of them had to say about the future of artificial intelligence regulation:“The idea that these companies who are not accountable to us or elected by us should get to decide sort of the new safeguards of society, that seems like the wrong way to do it,” said Sam Altman, the president of Y Combinator.“We think democratically elected governments should be in the business of regulating technology companies — not the other way around,” Brad Smith, Microsoft’s president, said.“We’re fans of regulation when it’s smart regulation,” Kent Walker, Google’s chief legal officer, said. “What do I mean by that? So, regulation that starts out with a really crisp definition of what’s the problem you’re trying to solve? That is then narrowly tailored to solve that problem and minimize blowback and side effects.”“I’ve found the European Commission to be very well-reasoned and thoughtful in their approach, and really putting consumers first,” Evan Spiegel of Snapchat said. “The more that companies can align with the government to do what’s right for customers, I think everyone will win there.”A fierce lobbying battle has arisen over an unlikely product, according to the NYT: human excrement, and more specifically its use in treating disease.• The skirmish is over the future of fecal microbiota transplants, a therapy that “transfers fecal matter from healthy donors into the bowels of ailing patients, restoring the beneficial works of the community of gut microbes that have been decimated by antibiotics.” The treatment is especially effective in treating Clostridioides difficile, also known as C. diff, a debilitating bacterial infection.• “At the heart of the controversy is a question of classification: Are the fecal microbiota that cure C. diff a drug, or are they more akin to organs, tissues and blood products that are transferred from the healthy to treat the sick?”• Most material currently used in fecal transplants comes from OpenBiome, a public stool bank in Massachusetts. But the F.D.A. has recently increased oversight that raised prices.• Several drug companies, including Rebiotix and Seres Therapeutics, have raised tens of millions of dollars from investors and begun lobbying the F.D.A. (A critic told the NYT they were the “poop drug cartel.”) The market for drug-based treatments of C. diff is estimated to eventually reach about $1.7 billion.• “At stake, some researchers says, is the future of pioneering therapies that harness the human microbiome — the trillions of organisms that colonize the body and are increasingly seen as critical for healthy brain development and immune function.”Ray Kelvin, the founder and C.E.O. of the British fashion chain Ted Baker, resigned amid accusations of inappropriate behavior.Fabio Schvartsman “temporarily” stepped down as Vale’s C.E.O. in the wake of a deadly dam burst in Brazil.KKR hired Kate Richdale, most recently the chairwoman of Goldman Sachs’s investment banking team in Asia, as its head of strategy and business development in the same region.John Havens stepped down as chairman of the hedge fund Napier Park Capital after being charged in a prostitution ring bust.The insurer Aviva named Maurice Tulloch, the head of its international operations, as its next C.E.O.Deals• Lyft publicly filed for an I.P.O. on Friday, revealing surging revenues but nearly $1 billion in losses. (NYT)• Nissan executives reportedly told Carlos Ghosn that the Japanese government would back their bid to block his proposed merger of the carmaker with its corporate sibling, Renault. (FT)• Margrethe Vestager, the E.U.’s competition commissioner, warned governments of the “consequences” of easing merger regulations. (FT)• The hedge fund BlueMountain nominated 12 candidates for the board of PG&amp;E, including the lawyer Kenneth Feinberg and a veteran Democratic politician, Phil Angelides. (NYT)• The maker of Instant Pot agreed to merge with the parent company of Pyrex and CorningWare. (WSJ)Politics and policy• President Trump publicly criticized Jay Powell, the chair of the Federal Reserve, over the weekend. Mr. Powell’s European counterparts aren’t getting much love from their governments, either. (Bloomberg)• American intelligence officials increasingly emphasize economic, not national security, issues in their briefings to the president. (NYT)• A new poll showed that Americans don’t like socialism but want the federal government to become more active in helping them. (CNBC)• Representative Jerry Nadler, the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, said he will request documents from more than 60 people, including Donald Trump Jr. and the C.F.O. of the Trump Organization. (NYT)Brexit• Prime Minister Theresa May promised £1.6 billion, or about $2.1 billion, to poorer areas of Britain — and was quickly criticized for trying to buy the support of opposition lawmakers. (Bloomberg)• Pro-Brexit lawmakers outlined three conditions that Mrs. May must meet to win their support for her Brexit deal. (Times of London)Tech• France plans to introduce a five percent digital tax on the revenue of about 30 internet giants. (Bloomberg)• Uber’s chief legal officer is trying to clean up the company before it goes public. (NYT)• North Korean hackers hit over 100 American and allied targets as President Trump met with Kim Jong-un last week. (NYT)• Amazon reportedly plans to open a chain of grocery stores in the U.S. that would be separate from its Whole Foods brand. (WSJ)• Tesla says it will unveil a new S.U.V., the Model Y, on March 14. (Reuters)Best of the rest• Carlos Ghosn’s lawyer is using a new legal strategy, and thinks it’s possible the auto executive could “be released in the near future.” (Reuters)• What it’s like to work as a comment moderator on a far right website. (NYT Op-Ed)• Wells Fargo reached a $240 million settlement with its U.S. shareholders over the creation of millions of unauthorized customer accounts by its employees. (Reuters)• The first American spacecraft capable of carrying astronauts since the retirement of the space shuttles launched Saturday, and successfully docked with International Space Station last night. (NYT, BBC)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.

Supported byGood Thursday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)Aramco, Saudi Arabia’s giant oil company, announced yesterday that it had bought 70 percent of the kingdom’s state-controlled petrochemical company, Sabic, for $69.1 billion.This is an alternative to an Aramco I.P.O. The deal for a majority stake in Sabic will provide a windfall for its majority owner: Saudi Arabia’s sovereign wealth fund. Aramco’s postponed plan to sell some of itself on a public stock market would have accomplished something similar.Saudi Arabia now has the money it wanted to modernize its economy. The kingdom’s crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, hopes to fund a campaign to wean Saudi Arabia off oil, by investing in new technology and clean energy. Aramco has now given his government the billions required to do so.And banks still get a gusher of fees. Financial firms that had worked on an Aramco I.P.O. pivoted to advisory roles on the Sabic deal, and many will arrange what’s expected to be a huge bond sale to help finance the transaction.Expect a peek into Aramco’s books. As part of a bond offering, the oil company will have to disclose its financial operations to potential investors. It’s unclear how much it will reveal, but any look at its huge oil reserves is sure to be of interest.The planemaker explained yesterday what it plans to do to upgrade its 737 Max 8 planes, after two fatal crashes in recent months raised global concerns about its safety.Pilots will have more control to override anti-stall software and new alerts, the company said at an event at its factory in Renton, Wash. They will also receive additional training.Boeing defended its Max 8 design process. “In general the process has worked and continues to work, and we see no reason to overhaul the process,” an unnamed Boeing official told the media. (A spokesman later told the WaPo that the comment referred to the plane’s development process, not its safety certifications.)Senators raised questions about safety checks for the Max 8 at a hearing yesterday, pressing federal regulators on all aspects of the process:• The transportation secretary, Elaine Chao, called the current situation “troubling.”• The acting F.A.A. chief, Daniel Elwell, said delegating authority was crucial. Otherwise, he added, the agency needed an extra 10,000 employees and $1.8 billion to oversee safety certification.• The Transportation Department’s inspector general, Calvin Scovel, said his office would conduct an audit into the F.A.A.’s certification of the Max 8.But lawmakers remain skeptical about the regulatory process. “The F.A.A. decided to do safety on the cheap, which is neither cheap nor safe,” Senator Richard Blumenthal, Democrat of Connecticut, said.American and Chinese officials continued to piece together a trade deal during talks in Beijing this week, but progress remains relatively slow.“We have moved forward in all areas,” one unidentified senior U.S. administration official told Reuters. The source said that in particular progress has been made on the practice of forced transfer of American technology to Chinese companies, a central issue for the Trump administration.But “we aren’t yet where we want to be,” the official conceded. The FT adds that “even agreement in less controversial areas — such as increased purchases of U.S. exports and improved market access for foreign investors — is proving difficult to pin down.”Senior U.S. officials arrive in Beijing today to continue the talks. Robert Lighthizer, the U.S. trade representative, and Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, will seek to make more progress. Next week, Vice Premier Liu He of China will head to Washington.The timing of a deal looks increasingly uncertain. “It could go to May, June, no one knows. It could happen in April, we don’t know,” a U.S. official told Reuters.More: Senate Republicans warned President Trump that his tariffs could plunge the U.S. into a recession ahead of the 2020 election.In a last-ditch effort to gain support for her Brexit plan, Prime Minister Theresa May yesterday offered to resign as long as her agreement is approved, Stephen Castle of the NYT writes.Her offer came as Parliament tried to sideline her by coming up with its own plan for Britain’s exit from the E.U. “But when lawmakers held a series of nonbinding votes on Wednesday night on eight different options for Britain’s future relationship with the E.U., none mustered a majority,” Mr. Castle writes.“If Mrs. May’s plan is approved, the battle over the details of Brexit will be fought first in a leadership struggle in the Conservative Party and then by all the other parties and factions that have scrapped with one another throughout the last two years.”But while her deal is gaining some support, many lawmakers are still holding out. Mrs. May will need to win the support of about 70 lawmakers who have already voted against the agreement — twice. Mr. Castle writes that it is “a very tall order.”More: The fund manager Mark Mobius said that the state of Britain’s debt and currency make it look “like an emerging market now.”Behind the Trump administration’s decision this week to seek a complete rejection of the Affordable Care Act was a political wager: Can President Trump appease supporters by upholding a 2016 campaign pledge?Mr. Trump made his decision on Monday after a heated debate in the White House, the NYT reports. Egging on the president were the acting White House chief of staff, Mick Mulvaney, and a top policy aide, Joe Grogan. Opposing the move were the White House counsel, Pat Cipollone; the secretary of health and human services, Alex Azar; and the attorney general, Bill Barr.The argument for taking on Obamacare, according to the NYT: “Mr. Trump has declared that he has kept his promises, Mr. Mulvaney and Mr. Grogan argued, and as a candidate he campaigned on repealing the health law. His base of voters would love it.”Republican lawmakers are worried. They lost control of the House last year largely because of voter concerns about health care. “We need a plan, and right now we don’t have one,” one unnamed Republican senator told Politico.Others are betting against Mr. Trump. Legal scholars think that Chief Justice John Roberts would again defend the law if the matter heads to the Supreme Court. And recent polls show that independent voters don’t approve of Mr. Trump’s handling of health care.More health care news: A federal judge blocked Kentucky and Arkansas from imposing work requirements on Medicaid, a blow to Republican efforts to reshape the program. A British review of Huawei found “significant” security problems with the Chinese company’s telecommunications equipment, Adam Satariano of the NYT reports.There are “underlying defects” in Huawei’s software engineering and security processes, according to the report, which was released this morning. They could be exploited by governments or independent hackers, creating a risk to national security.The report did not call for an outright ban of Huawei equipment, and “described a company with poor engineering practices and problems stemming from those engineering flaws, more than one operating at the orders of Chinese authorities,” Mr. Satariano writes. The findings were endorsed by Britain’s top cybersecurity agency.The conclusions buttress the Trump administration’s argument that Huawei is a grave risk to national security. Yet allies have resisted that push.They still want to manage the risks of using Huawei hardware rather than blocking it outright, to avoid losing momentum in building new high-speed wireless data networks. Earlier this year, the head of Britain’s National Cyber Security Center, Ciaran Martin, said that a complete ban wasn’t necessary.Investors increasingly think that as the global economy slows down, the Fed will have to cut interest rates. Officials at the central bank say that’s not in the cards — at least, not yet, Nick Timiraos of the WSJ reports.• The most recent sign of a rate cut, according to some investors, was last week’s yield-curve inversion. That was when yields on long-term Treasury notes fell below those of short-term ones, which is often interpreted as a harbinger of recession.• But some Fed officials urge patience. “I’d need to see an inversion of some magnitude and/or some duration, and right now we don’t have either,” Bob Kaplan, the president of the Dallas Fed, told the WSJ.• “If you see an inversion that goes on for several months … that’s a different kettle of fish,” he added.• The San Francisco Fed president, Mary Daly, said in a speech earlier this week that she’s “not freaked out” by the yield curve, and “hopefully businesses and market participants won’t freak out” either.More: The European Central Bank is considering how to help the continent’s banks as interest rates look to remain subzero. Swedbank fired Birgitte Bonneson as its C.E.O. today amid allegations that the Swedish lender was involved in Russian money-laundering.Chris Schaepe was ousted from Lightspeed Venture Partners after telling the firm he had hired the consultant at the heart of the college admissions scandal, though he has not been charged.Tim Throsby will step down as the head of Barclays’ investment bank.JPMorgan Chase reportedly plans to lay off hundreds of workers in its asset-management and wealth divisions.Deals• The pending I.P.O.s of Lyft and Pinterest highlight the debate over dual-class shares that let founders control companies with relatively small stock holdings. (DealBook)• Pimco and Elliott Management are reportedly pitching California lawmakers on a restructuring plan for PG&amp;E, the bankrupt utility. (Bloomberg)• Commerzbank employees are reportedly gearing up to oppose a merger with Deutsche Bank. (Bloomberg)• Casper, the mattress company, raised $100 million from Target and other investors at a valuation of $1.1 billion. (Bloomberg)• Bustle Digital, which owns Gawker, agreed to buy The Outline, a struggling online publisher. (Recode)Politics and policy• President Trump is getting exactly what he wants from the U.S. economy — just as economic forecasters are predicting a slowdown. (NYT)• The Supreme Court heard arguments on whether to curb the power of administrative agencies like the Department of Veterans Affairs. (NYT)• Stephen Moore, the economic commentator whom Mr. Trump plans to nominate to the Fed, owes $75,000 in unpaid federal taxes and penalties. (NYT)• The House Oversight and Reform Committee is seeking 10 years’ worth of Mr. Trump’s financial records from an accounting firm. (Politico)• The Trump administration has reportedly strengthened its support for Israel in part because the shale boom has made the U.S. less dependent on oil imports. (FT)Tech• Facebook will ban white nationalist content from its platforms. Related: why video games are fertile ground for white nationalist recruitment. (NYT, NYT Op-Ed)• More on Facebook: Here’s a peek inside the growth machine that gave it more than a billion users. (FT)• Microsoft seized 99 websites that it said were used by Iranian hackers to try to steal sensitive information from people in Washington. (NYT)• President Trump met with Sundar Pichai of Google yesterday, and tweeted that the C.E.O. is “totally committed to the U.S. Military, not the Chinese Military.” (WSJ)• Flaws in Bitcoin may mean that it never bounces back to its heights. (Economist)• Millennials might not be giving up on car ownership after all. (Bloomberg Opinion)Best of the rest• A newly formed Nissan committee recommended overhauling the company’s board in order to move past the arrest of its former chairman, Carlos Ghosn. (NYT)• A New Jersey jury unanimously cleared Johnson &amp; Johnson in the latest trial over whether its talc products caused a consumer’s cancer. (NYT)• But a California jury awarded $80.3 million in damages to a man who it decided had contracted cancer from exposure to Bayer’s Roundup weedkiller. (WSJ)• Bill McGlashan, who was ousted from TPG over the college admission scandal, argued yesterday that he hadn’t actually done anything illegal — yet. (Recode)• The Chinese delivery company Meituan is so cheap, it’s changing how people eat. (Bloomberg Businessweek)• How a TripAdvisor worker helped hunt down a prolific robocaller. (Wired)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.

Supported byBy David E. Sanger and Edward WongHANOI, Vietnam — As President Trump settled into the dining room of a French-colonial hotel in Hanoi on Thursday morning, the conversation with Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader with whom he had struck up the oddest of friendships, was already turning tense.In a dinner at the Metropole Hotel the evening before, mere feet from the bomb shelter where guests took cover during the Vietnam War, Mr. Kim had resisted what Mr. Trump presented as a grand bargain: North Korea would trade all its nuclear weapons, material and facilities for an end to the American-led sanctions squeezing its economy.An American official later described this as “a proposal to go big,” a bet by Mr. Trump that his force of personality, and view of himself as a consummate dealmaker, would succeed where three previous presidents had failed.But Mr. Trump’s offer was essentially the same deal that the United States has pushed — and the North has rejected — for a quarter-century. Intelligence agencies had warned him, publicly, Mr. Kim would not be willing to give up the arsenal completely. North Korea itself had said repeatedly that it would only move gradually.Several of Mr. Trump’s own aides, led by national security adviser John R. Bolton and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, thought the chances of a grand bargain for total nuclear disarmament were virtually zero. Some questioned whether the summit meeting should go forward.Mr. Trump disagreed. He had taken to showing what he called Mr. Kim’s “beautiful letters” to visitors to the Oval Office, as evidence he had built a rapport with one of the world’s most brutal dictators. While some in the White House worried Mr. Trump was being played, the president seemed entranced — even declaring “we fell in love.”As Mr. Trump and Mr. Kim parted company, nearly a year of optimism and flattery was left poolside at the Metropole, steps from a meeting room with two empty chairs and flags that had been carefully prepared for a “signing ceremony.”Mr. Trump and senior diplomats say they hope negotiations will continue, though nothing has been scheduled. Mr. Kim has promised not to resume weapons testing, and the Pentagon continues to hold off on large-scale military exercises with South Korea.In interviews with a half-dozen participants, it is clear Mr. Trump’s failed gambit was the culmination of two years of threats, hubris and misjudgment on both sides. Mr. Trump entered office convinced he could intimidate the man he liked to call “Little Rocket Man” with tough talk and sanctions, then abruptly took the opposite tack, overruling his aides and personalizing the diplomacy.Mr. Kim also miscalculated. He bet Mr. Trump might accept a more modest offer that American negotiators in Hanoi had already dismissed: The North would dismantle the Yongbyon nuclear complex, three square miles of aging facilities at the heart of the nuclear program, for an end to the sanctions most harmful to its economy, those enacted since 2016.It is unclear whether Mr. Trump was tempted to take that deal, which could have turned headlines away from the damaging testimony of his former lawyer, Michael D. Cohen, in Washington.But Mr. Pompeo, who knew the details of the North Korean program intimately from his days as C.I.A. director, opposed it. The president was told that if he settled for Yongbyon alone, he might appear to have been duped by the young leader of a country renowned for hiding pieces of its nuclear program in tunnels around the country.Mr. Pompeo said later that Mr. Kim’s offer “still leaves missiles, still leaves warheads and weapons systems” — and a senior State Department official argued that sanctions relief would fund the production of more weapons.It also would have let the North continue to produce uranium, a key ingredient for nuclear weapons, at a hidden enrichment center near the capital, Pyongyang — one of several suspected nuclear sites beyond Yongbyon that the United States has been monitoring from afar for nearly a decade.“I think that they were surprised that we knew,” Mr. Trump said.In the end, the president took a brief walk with Mr. Kim around the hotel’s pool, shook his hand and then canceled lunch in a glassed pavilion.“This kind of opportunity may never come again,” Ri Yong-ho, North Korea’s foreign minister, told reporters later that night.For a president who often complains that his predecessors only let the North Korea problem fester, the 8,000-mile trek from Washington to Hanoi was a crash course in why those past presidents failed.Many around Mr. Trump believe he will, too.North Korea was the first international crisis of the Trump administration, and discussion about how hard to press the country sometimes got heated. At one point, aides said they heard Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster, the national security adviser, and Jim Mattis, the defense secretary, shouting at each other behind closed doors.General McMaster was intent on signaling to both North Korea and allies that Mr. Trump was serious about enforcing sanctions and that he would not tolerate a nuclear North Korea.In a series of Situation Room meetings, the administration reviewed options to ramp up sanctions and covert operations, including an Obama-era program of cyber sabotage against North Korean missiles. War plans were rewritten, and General McMaster spoke openly about the possibility of a “preventive war” if the threat grew.The shouting was prompted by General McMaster’s insistence that Mr. Mattis intercept North Korean ships on the high seas to determine whether they were engaged in sanctions busting. But Mr. Mattis resisted, worried that the outbreak of a firefight at sea could quickly escalate out of control.Mr. Kim, for his part, turned up the pressure, launching missile after missile, including new intercontinental ballistic models that appeared capable of hitting the United States. There was also  another nuclear test, which some experts believe may have been a hydrogen bomb, as the North claimed.But for more than a year, Mr. Trump shut down efforts at diplomacy.When Rex Tillerson, the secretary of state at the time, told reporters during a visit to Beijing that “we have a couple, three channels open to Pyongyang,” Mr. Trump lashed out, declaring on Twitter that “only one thing will work” and casting his own secretary of state as naïve. Mr. Tillerson fumed and was later ousted.Early in 2018, though, Mr. Trump suddenly changed course — along the lines Mr. Tillerson had advocated. To the shock of Mr. Trump’s own advisers, he accepted on the spot when envoys sent by South Korea’s president, Moon Jae-in, passed on an invitation to meet Mr. Kim.After that first summit meeting in Singapore in June, the talk of hostilities ended. Mr. Trump declared Mr. Kim an honorable partner — gliding past the murder of his half brother, his uncle and an American student in North Korea, Otto Warmbier — and promised to improve relations and suspend military exercises around Korea.“There is no longer a Nuclear Threat from North Korea,” Mr. Trump declared on Twitter, despite the absence of any timetable for denuclearization.Some of his aides, starting with Mr. Bolton, the new national security adviser, were appalled. But with Mr. Trump repeating that he should be awarded a Nobel Peace Prize, no one wanted to argue.Mr. Bolton told colleagues not to worry. The negotiations, he said, would collapse on their own.There were signs of trouble from the start.Mr. Pompeo flew to Pyongyang in early July to turn the Singapore discussion into a timetable for the North to produce an inventory of weapons, the first step toward disarmament, but Mr. Kim declined to see him. Instead, Mr. Pompeo met with Kim Yong-chol, a former spy chief with hard-line views on the United States.After the visit, the North said the Americans had pushed a “unilateral and gangster-like demand for denuclearization.” But it also said Kim Jong-un still wanted to build on the “friendly relationship and trust” with Mr. Trump.The message was clear: A real breakthrough was only possible if the two leaders got together again. The North Koreans seemed to believe Mr. Kim could get a better deal from Mr. Trump than they could from his State Department negotiators.Then in August, Mr. Trump abruptly canceled a trip by Mr. Pompeo to Pyongyang, saying there had not been enough progress in the talks. This stymied the new special envoy, Stephen E. Biegun, who had planned to accompany Mr. Pompeo.Meanwhile, diplomacy between South Korea and North Korea was progressing quickly. Mr. Moon and Mr. Kim had already met twice before the Singapore summit, and in September, Mr. Moon made a historic visit to Pyongyang.The result was the Pyongyang Declaration, which outlined a peace process for the peninsula — and dangled a potential concession by North Korea. The North, it said, would agree to dismantle the Yongbyon complex if the United States took “corresponding measures.”Suddenly, Yongbyon was in play. But what did North Korea want?Some analysts said they believed then that the North was seeking an end-of-war declaration as a prelude to legally replacing the armistice that halted the Korean War, an idea that Mr. Trump told Mr. Kim in Singapore he supported. And Mr. Moon was pushing for the end-of-war declaration.American officials were worried it could lead too quickly to a peace treaty and then negotiations to draw down the 28,500 American troops on the peninsula — a longtime goal of the North.Then, a few days before the midterm elections in the United States, North Korea released a belligerent statement that said the country would return to a policy of strengthening its nuclear force if the United States did not lift sanctions.In retrospect, it was an important message that was obscured by the discussion of an end-of-war declaration.What really mattered to Mr. Kim were the sanctions, which, after three new rounds in 2017, were strangling his nation’s already pitiful economy. The United States had even cut off critical humanitarian aid to the country by barring American aid groups from traveling there.With diplomacy stalled, Mr. Trump decided to weigh in again.Mr. Bolton announced in December that Mr. Trump wanted another summit meeting in early 2019 because North Korea had “not lived up to the commitments” it made in Singapore. To some diplomats and analysts, that seemed like a reason not to meet again.The North Koreans appointed a former ambassador to Spain, Kim Hyok-chol, to lay the groundwork with Mr. Biegun, 55, a pragmatic former senior aide to Condoleezza Rice in the Bush administration who had been passed over for the national security adviser position in favor of Mr. Bolton.The first meetings in Pyongyang did not go smoothly. And when the two sides met in Hanoi starting six days before the summit meeting, the North Koreans kept demanding that the five most recent rounds of sanctions imposed by the United Nations since March 2016 be lifted.Mr. Ri, the foreign minister, said later that North Korea chose those sanctions because they affected ordinary citizens.These sanctions, imposed to punish Pyongyang for new weapons tests, differed from previous restrictions that were focused on weapons and nuclear-related equipment. Instead, they covered entire export sectors, including minerals, metals, coal, agriculture and seafood.They also banned energy sales to North Korea. Altogether, they held back billions of dollars of trade, a senior State Department official said.The far-reaching nature of the sanctions — and the suffering they were causing — were exactly why hard-line administration officials wanted to keep them up. After Mr. Trump’s surprise decision at Singapore to suspend military exercises with South Korea, these officials worried the United States was losing leverage.That camp, led by Mr. Bolton, regarded Mr. Pompeo and his diplomats with suspicion. Would they give away too much for too little? Would they give in to the North Korean entreaties to loosen sanctions?A Stanford speech by Mr. Biegun in January appeared to the hawks to be a red flag: He suggested then that North Korea might not need to immediately hand over a complete declaration of nuclear assets, which American officials had demanded as a first step.But behind closed doors, Mr. Biegun and his team told the North Koreans that giving up the aging facilities at Yongbyon was not nearly enough for such extensive sanctions relief.At the same time, the North Korean negotiators were inconsistent about which of the facilities inside Yongbyon they were offering to dismantle — at one point saying that only Kim Jong-un could decide.The negotiating teams were still deadlocked even as Mr. Kim boarded a train for a two-day journey to Vietnam and Mr. Trump took off on Air Force One.The American team thought their North Korean counterparts would warn Mr. Kim that the demand to lift the five sanctions was a non-starter, so the two leaders would work on hashing something else out during the summit meeting.But soon after the two men arrived at the Metropole, the North Korean leader began arguing for relief from the five rounds of sanctions in exchange for Yongbyon.While North Korea had suspended operations at Yongbyon under agreements in 1994 and again in 2007, and later offered various moratoriums that were never fully executed, Mr. Kim’s proposal appeared to go further than ever toward dismantling the entirety of the complex, officials said. But the exact terms were still vague.Mr. Trump countered with the grand bargain. The divide was underscored by the fact that, at one point, he presented Mr. Kim with a document laying out his definition of denuclearization.Mr. Kim objected that there was not enough trust between the two countries to give up everything at once.At a rare news conference shortly after midnight on Thursday, Mr. Ri argued that his country mostly needed “security guarantees” related to American military forces on the peninsula, and portrayed the sanctions-for-Yongbyon trade as a step to build trust.In the end, Mr. Trump flew back to Washington with nothing — no agreement on a peace declaration, and no ban on producing more nuclear fuel — meaning the North’s arsenal will keep expanding while the two sides argue. There were only promises to keep talking.On Friday, as Mr. Trump woke up in the White House after his grueling trip, the long wooden table that had been moved into a meeting room of the Metropole Hotel for the signing ceremony still sat there, unused.An earlier version of this article misspelled the surname of an American student who died after being held captive in North Korea. He was Otto Warmbier, not Wambier.Peter Baker contributed reporting from Washington, and Choe Sang-Hun from Seoul, South Korea.OpinionE. Tammy Kim

Sophisticated surveillance, once the domain of world powers, is increasingly available on the private market. Smaller countries are seizing on the tools — sometimes for darker purposes.NSO, a private company based in Herzliya, Israel, has hired former government hackers to ply their trades for foreign governments.CreditCreditCorinna Kern for The New York TimesSupported byBy Mark Mazzetti, Adam Goldman, Ronen Bergman and Nicole PerlrothThe man in charge of Saudi Arabia’s ruthless campaign to stifle dissent went searching for ways to spy on people he saw as threats to the kingdom. He knew where to go: a secretive Israeli company offering technology developed by former intelligence operatives.It was late 2017 and Saud al-Qahtani — then a top adviser to Saudi Arabia’s powerful crown prince — was tracking Saudi dissidents around the world, part of his extensive surveillance efforts that ultimately led to the killing of the journalist Jamal Khashoggi. In messages exchanged with employees from the company, NSO Group, Mr. al-Qahtani spoke of grand plans to use its surveillance tools throughout the Middle East and Europe, like Turkey and Qatar or France and Britain.The Saudi government’s reliance on a firm from Israel, an adversary for decades, offers a glimpse of a new age of digital warfare governed by few rules and of a growing economy, now valued at $12 billion, of spies for hire.Today even the smallest countries can buy digital espionage services, enabling them to conduct sophisticated operations like electronic eavesdropping or influence campaigns that were once the preserve of major powers like the United States and Russia. Corporations that want to scrutinize competitors’ secrets, or a wealthy individual with a beef against a rival, can also command intelligence operations for a price, akin to purchasing off-the-shelf elements of the National Security Agency or the Mossad.[For more stories about the changing nature of warfare, sign up for the weekly At War newsletter.]NSO and a competitor, the Emirati firm DarkMatter, exemplify the proliferation of privatized spying. A monthslong examination by The New York Times, based on interviews with current and former hackers for governments and private companies and others as well as a review of documents, uncovered secret skirmishes in this burgeoning world of digital combat.The firms have enabled governments not only to hack criminal elements like terrorist groups and drug cartels but also in some cases to act on darker impulses, targeting activists and journalists. Hackers trained by United States spy agencies caught American businesspeople and human rights workers in their net. Cybermercenaries working for DarkMatter turned a prosaic household item, a baby monitor, into a spy device.The F.B.I. is investigating current and former American employees of DarkMatter for possible cybercrimes, according to four people familiar with the investigation. The inquiry intensified after a former N.S.A. hacker working for the company grew concerned about its activities and contacted the F.B.I., Reuters reported.NSO and DarkMatter also compete fiercely with each other, paying handsomely to lure top hacking talent from Israel, the United States and other countries, and sometimes pilfering recruits from each other, The Times found.The Middle East is the epicenter of this new era of privatized spying. Besides DarkMatter and NSO, there is Black Cube, a private company run by former Mossad and Israeli military intelligence operatives that gained notoriety after Harvey Weinstein, the disgraced Hollywood mogul, hired it to dig up dirt on his accusers. Psy-Group, an Israeli company specializing in social media manipulation, worked for Russian oligarchs and in 2016 pitched the Trump campaign on a plan to build an online army of bots and avatars to swing Republican delegate votes.Last year, a wealthy American businessman, Elliott Broidy, sued the government of Qatar and a New York firm run by a former C.I.A. officer, Global Risk Advisors, for what he said was a sophisticated breach of his company that led to thousands of his emails spilling into public. Mr. Broidy said that the operation was motivated by hard-nosed geopolitics: At the beginning of the Trump administration, he had pushed the White House to adopt anti-Qatar policies at the same time his firm was poised to receive hundreds of millions of dollars in contracts from the United Arab Emirates, the archrival to Qatar.A judge dismissed Mr. Broidy’s lawsuit, but suspicions have grown that Qatar had a hand in other operations, including the hacking and leaking of the emails of Yousef al-Otaiba, the influential Emirati ambassador in Washington.The rapid expansion of this global high-tech battleground, where armies of cybermercenaries clash, has prompted warnings of a dangerous and chaotic future.“Even the smallest country, on a very low budget, can have an offensive capability,” or initiate online attacks against adversaries, said Robert Johnston, founder of the cybersecurity firm Adlumin and a key investigator on Russia’s 2016 hacking of the Democratic National Committee. “Qatar and U.A.E. are going after each other, and that war is getting very, very bloody.“The barriers to entry in this space are getting lower and lower.”Before NSO helped the Saudi government track its adversaries outside the kingdom, and helped the Mexican government hunt drug kingpins, and earned hundreds of millions of dollars working for dozens of countries on six continents, the company consisted of two high school friends in northern Israel with one relatively mundane idea.Using technology developed by graduates of Intelligence Unit 8200 — Israel’s equivalent of the N.S.A.— Shalev Hulio and Omri Lavie started a company in 2008 that allowed cellphone firms to gain remote access to their customers’ devices to perform maintenance.Word spread to Western spy services, whose operatives spotted an opportunity. At the time, American and European officials were warning that Apple, Facebook, Google and other tech giants were developing technologies that allowed criminals and terrorists to communicate through encrypted channels indecipherable to intelligence and law enforcement agencies. They called the phenomenon “going dark.”Mr. Hulio and Mr. Lavie offered a way to circumvent this problem by hacking the end points of the communications — the phones themselves — after the data were decrypted.By 2011, NSO had developed its first prototype, a mobile surveillance tool the company called Pegasus. Like its namesake, the Greek mythological winged horse, NSO’s tool could do something seemingly impossible: collect vast amounts of previously inaccessible data from smartphones in the air without leaving a trace — including phone calls, texts, emails, contacts, location and any data transmitted over apps like Facebook, WhatsApp and Skype.“Once these companies invade your phone, they own it. You’re just carrying it around,” Avi Rosen of Kaymera Technologies, an Israeli cyberdefense company, said of NSO and its competitors.The company soon had its first client for Pegasus: the government of Mexico, which was engaged in a crackdown on drug cartels. By 2013, NSO had installed Pegasus at three Mexican agencies, according to emails obtained by The Times. The emails estimated that, altogether, the firm had sold the Mexican government $15 million worth of hardware and software. Mexico was paying the firm some $77 million to track a wide array of targets’ every move and swipe of their phone.NSO products were important to Mexico’s war against the cartels, according to four people familiar with how the Mexican government used Pegasus, speaking on the condition of anonymity to discuss intelligence matters. Mexican officials have credited Pegasus as instrumental in helping track and capture El Chapo, the famed drug kingpin who was convicted last month in New York and sentenced to life in a maximum-security prison.Soon enough, NSO was selling to governments throughout the world, with the company claiming clients on every continent except Antarctica. NSO products — particularly Pegasus — helped break up terrorist cells and aided investigations into organized crime and child abduction, European intelligence and law enforcement officials said in interviews.NSO’s first client, the Mexican government, was also using the hacking tools for darker purposes — as part of a broader government and industry surveillance effort. The government used NSO products to track at least two dozen journalists, government critics, international investigators looking into the unsolved disappearance of 43 students, even backers of a soda tax, according to Times investigations and research by Citizen Lab, part of the University of Toronto.Those targets were subjected to a stream of harassing text messages that contained malware. Some messages warned that their spouses were having affairs, others that a relative had passed away. In one case, when government officials were not able to infiltrate the phone of a journalist, they targeted her 16-year-old son’s.Though NSO says it sells its services for criminal and antiterrorism investigations, none of the Mexicans known to have been targeted were suspected in criminal or terrorism investigations.“NSO technology has helped stop vicious crimes and deadly terrorist attacks around the world,” the company said in a statement. “We do not tolerate misuse of our products and we regularly vet and review our contracts to ensure they are not being used for anything other than the prevention or investigation of terrorism and crime.”The company has established an ethics committee, which decides whether it can sell its spyware to countries based on their human rights records as reported by global organizations like the World Bank’s human capital index, and other indicators. NSO would not sell to Turkey, for example, because of its poor record on human rights, current and former employees said.But on the World Bank index, Turkey ranks higher than Mexico and Saudi Arabia, both NSO clients. A spokesman for Israel’s Ministry of Defense, which needs to authorize any contract that NSO wins from a foreign government, declined to answer questions about the company.A lawsuit alleged  last year that in the months before his death, Saudi Arabia used NSO products to spy on Mr. Khashoggi, the Washington Post columnist strangled and dismembered in October by Saudi operatives inside the kingdom’s consulate in Istanbul. NSO denies the accusation. Several of Mr. Khashoggi’s closest contacts were targets of NSO hacking tools, Citizen Lab reported. Without access to Mr. Khashoggi’s devices, researchers have not confirmed whether he was a direct target of NSO surveillance.Even in cases of blatant abuse, NSO continued to renew contracts with its government clients. In 2013, for instance, NSO inked its first deal with the United Arab Emirates. Within a year, the Emirati government was caught installing NSO spyware on the mobile phone of Ahmed Mansoor, a prominent human rights activist.After receiving an onslaught of text messages containing links, Mr. Mansoor — a frequent target of Emirati surveillance — grew suspicious and passed the texts to security researchers, who determined the links were NSO lures that exploited vulnerabilities in Apple software to take over Mr. Mansoor’s phone. It was, researchers said, the most sophisticated spyware they had ever uncovered on a mobile device.The discovery forced Apple to release an emergency patch. But by then, Mr. Mansoor had already been fired from his job, had his passport confiscated, his car stolen, his email hacked, his location tracked, his bank account emptied of $140,000, and was beaten by strangers twice in the same week.“You start to believe your every move is watched. Your family starts to panic,” he said in an interview before he was arrested in 2017. “I have to live with that.”Even after the U.A.E. was caught spying on Mr. Mansoor, leaked invoices showed that NSO continued to sell the Emiratis millions of dollars’ worth of spyware and services. As for Mr. Mansoor, he was sentenced to 10 years in prison for damaging national unity and is being held in solitary confinement, where his health is deteriorating.A flurry of news reports followed about countries using NSO products to spy on their citizens, prompting the company to temporarily rebrand itself “Q,” after James Bond’s gadget guru.Despite the bad news coverage, NSO’s value continued to skyrocket.Francisco Partners, a private equity firm, purchased a 70 percent stake in NSO for $130 million in 2013. Last month, NSO’s co-founders raised enough money to buy back a majority stake in NSO at a valuation of just under $1 billion. The London private equity firm Novalpina Capital backed the deal — making its major investors, including the Oregon state employees’ pension fund and Alaska’s sovereign wealth fund, part owners of NSO, according to public records.The proliferation of companies trying to replicate NSO’s success and compete in an estimated $12 billion market for so-called lawful intercept spyware has set off a fierce competition to hire American, Israeli and Russian veterans of the world’s most sophisticated intelligence agencies — and for the companies to poach talent from one another.In late 2017, NSO executives grew concerned about a spate of resignations. Private detectives hired to investigate soon found themselves on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus, tailing a group of former NSO employees — all veterans of Israel’s Intelligence Unit 8200 — going back and forth to work at a research facility.The building was owned by a company affiliated with DarkMatter, an Emirati firm that had quietly hired the Israelis to develop technologies for the U.A.E. to conduct cyberoperations against perceived enemies at home and abroad.DarkMatter also has offices inside a gleaming tower on the highway connecting Abu Dhabi to Dubai, the same building that houses the U.A.E.’s Signals Intelligence Agency, the Emirates’ version of the N.S.A.This is not by accident. DarkMatter is effectively an arm of the state that has worked directly with Emirati intelligence operatives on numerous missions such as hacking government ministries in Turkey, Qatar and Iran and spying on dissidents inside the Emirates.DarkMatter has origins in another company, an American firm called CyberPoint that years ago won contracts from the U.A.E. to help protect the Emirates from computer attacks. CyberPoint obtained a license from the American government to work for the Emiratis, a necessary step intended to regulate the export of military and intelligence services. Many of the company’s employees had worked on highly classified projects for the N.S.A. and other American intelligence agencies.But the Emiratis had outsize ambitions and repeatedly pushed CyberPoint employees to exceed the boundaries of the company’s American license. CyberPoint rebuffed requests by Emirati intelligence operatives to try to crack encryption codes and to hack websites housed on American servers — operations that would have run afoul of American law.So in 2015 the Emiratis founded DarkMatter — forming a company not bound by United States law — and lured at least a half-dozen American employees of CyberPoint to join. Marc Baier, a former official with the N.S.A. unit that carries out advanced offensive cyberoperations, became one of the firm’s top executives.DarkMatter employed several other former N.S.A. and C.I.A. officers, according to a roster of employees obtained by The Times, some making salaries of hundreds of thousands of dollars a year.“The assumption used to be that when you left the N.S.A., you’d never do that kind of offensive work again. Now, clearly there is a market for it,” said Mr. Johnston, the security expert. He worked in the military’s Cyber Command, which works closely with the N.S.A., while serving in the Marines.“The N.S.A. should consider it their responsibility to ensure that the hacking techniques taught to employees cannot be used against the United States,” he said.The company did not respond to a request to comment, nor did a spokesman for the Emirati government. Asked whether the ministry had given a license for the former Israeli intelligence operatives working for DarkMatter, a spokesman for the Israeli Ministry of Defense declined to comment. A lawyer for Mr. Baier also declined to comment.Current and former employees of the spy agency have a lifelong obligation to protect the United States’ secrets, said Greg Julian, a spokesman for the N.S.A. They are also required to report employment or representation with foreign governments for two years after they leave the agency, he said.Besides its breaches of foreign government ministries, DarkMatter also broke into Gmail, Yahoo and Hotmail accounts, according to former employees. DarkMatter operatives posed as family and friends of the people they targeted to lure them into opening emails that contained malware.Former employees said that DarkMatter targeted Mr. Mansoor, hacking his child’s baby monitor to eavesdrop on his family. In another operation, the company’s operatives pursued Rori Donaghy, a British activist critical of the Emirati government and its human rights record, who had also been a target of NSO spyware. DarkMatter also targeted Citizen Lab, the Canadian research organization, a former employee said.DarkMatter told the employees that spying on American citizens would be off limits, but it proved to be an empty pledge.In one operation, not previously reported, a DarkMatter subsidiary began an expansive effort to intercept cellular communications in Qatar, occasionally catching communications of Americans in the surveillance net in late 2015. One American working on the project said he raised concerns with his superiors, including a former C.I.A. officer in charge of the effort. The American, along with another, was pulled off the project and asked to sign a nondisclosure agreement.In repeated instances, DarkMatter collected information about Americans, a second former employee said. Most of those cases involved Americans who worked for foreign organizations — including human rights groups — that DarkMatter targeted because they had been critical of the Emirati government, the former employee said.DarkMatter operatives would occasionally collect passport information, applications or résumés belonging to Americans who applied to work at these organizations. One former employee said that the collection was accidental, and the records were expunged from the company’s databases.In 2017, a former N.S.A. hacker began providing F.B.I. agents with information about the company’s activities, according to the Reuters report. Foreign Policy first reported the F.B.I. investigation.The informant, Lori Stroud, said she had become concerned about the company’s surveillance of Americans. She later left the firm along with several other Americans because they could not be sure that DarkMatter was not deliberately targeting citizens. Soon, F.B.I. agents began stopping American employees at airports as they entered the United States and questioned them about DarkMatter’s operations, according to former company employees.The Justice Department’s case, run by prosecutors in Washington, focuses on internet fraud and the possibly illegal transfer of spying technology to a foreign country.But the prosecutors face headwinds, including diplomatic concerns about jeopardizing the United States’ relationship with the U.A.E. — an influential country that has developed close ties to the Trump administration — and worries about how pursuing the case could expose embarrassing details about the extent of the cooperation between DarkMatter and American intelligence agencies.And there is the reality that American laws governing this new age of digital warfare are murky, outdated, and ill-equipped to address rapid technological advances. The rules governing what American intelligence and military personnel can and cannot provide to foreign governments were meant to keep a leash on 20th-century warfare — selling missiles or planes overseas or training foreign forces on Army tactics.But they do not address hacking skills that can be honed in front of a laptop, or at the world’s most advanced intelligence agencies, and sold to the highest bidder.“The worst part of it is the weapons are easier to get,” said Brian Bartholomew, the principal security researcher at Kaspersky Lab, a digital security company.“You’ve got a lot of people entering the arena that are new and don’t play by the same rules,” he said. “It’s like putting a military-grade weapon in the hands of someone off the street.”An earlier version of this article misattributed the source of a valuation for the market of so-called lawful intercept spyware. The $12 billion market estimate cited by Moody’s originated from the company NSO, not Moody’s.Scott Shane contributed reporting.

