Supported byBy Bruce HorovitzA new partnership among two prominent Israeli venture capital funds, a handful of major private-sector companies and the city’s economic growth development enterprise is hoping to turn New York City into the nation’s leading center for yet one more major industry: cybersecurity.Cyber NYC, as the project is called, is among the nation’s most ambitious cybersecurity initiatives, which over the next decade could transform New York City into a global leader of cybersecurity innovation and job creation.The multiyear project would simultaneously create a Global Cyber Center in Chelsea, a cybersecurity innovation hub in the SoHo neighborhood of Manhattan and an academic cybepartnership with area colleges, such as Columbia University, New York University and City University of New York. At the same time, major corporations such as Goldman Sachs, Mastercard and PricewaterhouseCoopers also are participating in advisory roles or to assist with the project’s training and hiring.“We are at a seminal moment in the trajectory of the cybersecurity industry,” said James Patchett, president and chief executive of the New York City Economic Development Corporation, which is spearheading the Cyber NYC initiative, including assembling and leading public-private partnerships and developing and overseeing six programs to grow New York’s cyberindustry and expand the work force.“Making New York City the epicenter of cybersecurity makes complete sense because New York City is where all the customers are,” Mr. Patchett said.Cyber NYC will initially be funded by about $70 million in private investments, including from the two Israeli firms: Jerusalem Venture Partners, a venture capital fund; and SOSA, a corporate innovation specialist, among others Another $30 million is coming from the city. Its goal: to create 10,000 local cybersecurity jobs over the next decade as part of Mayor de Blasio’s New York Works Plan.Two new cybersecurity centers in separate locations will work in tandem to anchor this project. In SoHo, a 50,000-square-foot cybersecurity investment hub will support cybersecurity start-ups in New York City. In Chelsea, the 15,000-square-foot Global Cyber Center will bring together investors, corporations and start-ups and serve as a virtual testing ground to run simulations. Both are expected to be completed before the end of 2019.According to the New York City Economic Development Corporation, cybersecurity already is a $1 billion-plus industry in New York, with more than 100 companies and 6,000 employees as of 2017.Those numbers are expected to grow as the city continues to attract new technology-related companies. The highest-profile is Amazon, which selected New York’s Long Island City as one of its East Coast headquarters. “We’re the logical place for this to be located,” Mr. Patchett said.The real driver behind a project like Cyber NYC is the nation’s urgent need for improved cybersecurity at all levels of corporate and government operations. Nearly 60 million Americans have been affected by identity theft, according to a 2018 online survey by The Harris Poll, an increase from 15 million in 2017.Cybersecurity attacks have become so common that experts worry about the onset of “cyberfatigue” as consumers begun to shrug off their impact. A corporate cyberattack takes place every 40 seconds via ransomware across the globe, reported Cybersecurity Ventures, a research specialist in the global cybereconomy. That figure is expected to be every 14 seconds by next year. Cybercrimes, Cybersecurity Ventures also noted, are predicted to cause $6 trillion in damages by 2021, an increase from $3 trillion in 2015.Despite the clear need for cybersecurity upgrades and improvements, not everyone is convinced that a project like Cyber NYC is the right solution.“This sounds like a huge marketing pitch,” said Bruce Schneier, a cybersecurity expert who has written 13 books on the topic. “I’ve worked in this field forever, and I’ve never even heard the term cybersecurity hub.” Such skepticism doesn’t really bother Erel Margalit, founder and chairman of Jerusalem Venture Partners, which is overseeing the creation of the cybersecurity investment hub in SoHo.“Come and see what we already have done in Israel,” Mr. Margalit said, in response to Mr. Schneier’s skepticism. Jerusalem Venture Partners has raised over $1.3 billion to create and finance more than 130 companies — more than one-third of them in cybersecurity, including CyberArk, which is one of Israel’s largest cybersecurity companies (Israel is second to the U.S. in terms of overall investment in cybersecurity firms). “If someone wants to call this a marketing ploy, O.K. The storytelling part is important. When you tell people a story, they listen.”Mr. Margalit, who as a former member of Israel’s legislative body, the Knesset, led its cybersecurity task force. Mr. Margalit earned his Ph.D. at Columbia and was living in New York City during 9/11. He says that his company will oversee much of the business end of the venture. “Most innovation occurs when the two disciplines meet: investors and cybersecurity experts,” he said.Equally invested in Cyber NYC’s success is Uzi Scheffer, chief executive of SOSA, which has offices in Tel Aviv and New York. The company mostly focuses on protecting major financial companies from cyberattacks. While SOSA already has been operating out of another New York location for about 18 months, it is building the Global Cyber Center in Chelsea and plans to move into it in 2019.“The Global Cyber Center will expose New York’s largest players to the best cybersecurity solutions out there,” said Mr. Scheffer.Mr. Scheffer said a global cybersecurity hub doesn’t really exist anywhere yet. “It’s about seizing the opportunity rather than taking it away from someone else,” said Scheffer, whose firm, like Jerusalem Venture Partners, secured its partnership with Cyber NYC through a competitive bidding process.There’s also a serious academic element to the overall cybersecurity partnership, which involves the participation of virtually every major academic institution in New York City. “Whether or not this leads to New York becoming the single, cybersecurity hub of the world is a story that will be played out over the next 15 years,” said Orin Herskowitz, senior vice president of Intellectual Property and Tech Transfer for Columbia University. In the meantime, he says, the combined efforts will train and link local university students with substantive cybersecurity jobs in NYC.“There is a real chance this will become a catalytic event,” Mr. Herskowitz said.There’s even a so-called Cybersecurity Boot Camp planned, where the city’s Fullstack Academy and CUNY LaGuardia Community College plan to educate and place more than 1,000 students in high-paying cybersecurity jobs over the first three years of the program. Program development for the boot camp has begun with the first session scheduled to take place in spring 2019.Until now, all of the major cybersecurity stakeholders in New York City have been physically and operationally separated, said Satish Rao, associate director of physical sciences licensing at Columbia, who helps to support cybersecurity start-ups. But with Cyber NYC, he said, “a coalition of stakeholders is coming together.”One such stakeholder is Mark Gazit, chief executive of ThetaRay, an Israeli financial cybersecurity specialty company, which opened a temporary New York office at another location 18 months ago, but will be ultimately be housed in the SoHo building early next year. ThetaRay will start with about 15 to 20 employees at the location, but plans to have more than 100 within several years, Gazit said.“Few people come to a bank branch and use a gun to steal money,” he said. Today, the thief is far more likely to be behind a server in some remote country, stealing money without any physical access to the bank, he says. His company, which aims to prevent the spread of this cybercrime, works with such clients as General Electric.To be a cybercriminal is the highest-paying, low-risk job in the world, Mr. Gazit said. “Nobody knows who you are, and you can disappear without a trace,” he says.His and other cybersecurity companies hope to make New York City the center of halting cybercrime. There is no better location than New York, said Mr. Gazit, because New York is where the talent is and where the financial giants are headquartered.“At the end of the day,” Mr. Gazit said, “we have to make sure the good guys win. ”Because of editing errors, earlier versions of picture captions with this article misidentified a building in SoHo that is part of the Cyber NYC initiative. It is a future cybersecurity innovation hub, not the future Global Cyber Center, which will be in Chelsea. One of the captions also misspelled the surnames of two people involved with the hub. They are Tali Rabin, not Raben, and Gil Becker, not Beker.
Supported byBy Paulette PerhachA stunning statistic is reverberating in cybersecurity: An estimated 3.5 million cybersecurity jobs will be available but unfilled by 2021, according to predictions from Cybersecurity Ventures and other experts.“It’s scary. Our power grid, our cars, our everyday devices — basically everything is online and able to be attacked,” said Georgia Weidman, author of “Penetration Testing: A Hands-On Introduction to Hacking.” Ms. Weidman is the founder of two cybersecurity companies, Bulb Security, where she is chief executive, and Shevirah, where she is chief technology officer. Shevirah specializes in security for mobile devices.“It would certainly cause mass destruction if our power grid went down or our water pumps started going haywire or our dams decided to open all their sluices,” she said. “That’s actually something that could happen.”According to a report released this year by the Identity Theft Resource Center, the number of data breaches tracked in the United States in 2017 hit a high of more than 1,500, up almost 45 percent over 2016. In one incident this year, the data of 29 million Facebook users was stolen.In response to the sheer number of new digital gates that might be left open, employers and educators have had to become more creative in finding people to guard them.They need penetration testers to simulate attacks to find and fix vulnerabilities that could be exploited by a real attacker.They need malware analysts to find out what malicious programs do so they can protect from the attacks.They need security researchers to discover new vulnerabilities in applications and other products — before the thieves do — so they can be fixed. They need security architects to make sure all the best practices are being followed.According to the chief economist for LinkedIn, Guy Berger, there was a shortage as of September of 11,000 people with cybersecurity skills in the San Francisco Bay Area, 5,000 in New York and almost 4,000 in Seattle, the areas with the largest concentration of need. LinkedIn regularly issues work-force reports based on its analysis of jobs data in the United States.Some major corporations have openly taken to hiring hackers to help protect them. An extreme example is Kevin Mitnick, who hacked into corporations, landed on the F.B.I. Most Wanted Fugitives list, went to jail for five years, but is now a security consultant to Fortune 500 companies and governments. As he says on his website about hackers, “It takes one to know one.”Many companies are also putting less emphasis on the need for a college degree to qualify for a cybersecurity job, Ms. Weidman said. With an undergraduate degree in mathematics from Mary Baldwin College in Staunton, Va., and a master’s in computer science from James Madison University in Harrisonburg, Va., Ms. Weidman said she had seen how much hands-on experience really mattered in the cyberfield. That insight came early when she participated in the National Collegiate Cyber Defense Competition as a student.The competition, which began in 2005, is held at colleges across the country and designed to test student teams’ abilities to detect and respond to outside threats and to protect services such as mail servers and web servers. The sponsors include high-tech companies like the defense contractor Raytheon and IBM, but also retailers like Walmart and transportation companies like Uber.Recalling the difference between theoretical learning in college and hands-on experience, Ms. Weidman said she could do a lot of math about computer networking, “but could I actually manage a network at a company? Absolutely not.”The people who were in community colleges would “wipe the floor with those of us at universities, because community colleges really were focused on how to do these things,” she said. “I think that people at the university level are starting to realize that we need more hands-on skills in cybersecurity, as well as just the theory.”With that in mind, colleges and universities are changing their curriculums. Ms. Weidman is working with the Tulane School of Professional Advancement in New Orleans to build an online class for its Applied Computing Systems &amp; Technology degree program.At New York University, the Center for Cybersecurity has been operating for 20 years and graduates about 50 students annually. But this year, it created an online master’s program to help make the training more affordable in hopes of attracting more people to the field.Students in cybersecurity get a 75 percent discount, so the master’s degree costs about $15,000, compared with about $60,000 for the traditional on-campus program. The online program enrolled 125 students in September and hopes to have 1,000 students annually within three or four years.“Nationally, we graduate twice the number of psychology majors as opposed to engineers,” said Nasir Memon, professor and associate dean for online learning at the N.Y.U. Tandon School of Engineering. “We graduate as many park rangers as compared to computer scientists.”Students frequently graduate in fields that lack opportunity for long-term careers, he said. If they want to switch to computer science in traditional programs, they can face daunting barriers, like multiple semesters of catch-up courses and a requirement to take the Graduate Record Examination.“So one of the things we did is start a bridge program, where we say, we don’t care what you did in your undergrad; you could have done physics, anthropology, anything, just come on in,” Professor Memon said.The welcome the school extends is in the form of an intense, four-month online program of computer science courses with a price of $1,500. If students pass, they are eligible for the full program.This year, 230 students were accepted into the bridge program, 22 percent of them women. That number compares with 11 percent of women in the cybersecurity force over all, according to a 2017 report by the Center for Cyber Safety and Education and the Executive Women’s Forum on Information Security, Risk Management &amp; Privacy.Shamla Naidoo, global chief information security officer for IBM, has had success reaching out to mothers returning to work, as well as to veterans, to find potential cybersecurity workers.“We’ve been talking about this for the last few years,” Ms. Naidoo said. “The first year, I spent a lot of time worrying about it. After that I thought, there’s no point in worrying about it, I’m going to have to go act, and I’m going to have to act in a nontraditional way. Posting a job description and hoping people are going to show up and apply to the job wasn’t working because the people just didn’t exist. So rather than trying to hire the skills and knowing they’re not as easily available, let’s create the skills internally.”She created a system open to hiring people who have little or no experience, and, in many cases, even skills, in cybersecurity, with the understanding that they will come in, join a more experienced team and learn on the job. They are formed into teams of five to seven people solving one problem at a time, with the new employees teaming with more experienced security experts to watch.Many skills from other industries are transferable to the cybersecurity field. Cybersecurity experts need to be able to communicate policies to, as Ms. Naidoo put it, “increase the cybersecurity I.Q.” of an entire organization. For example, people from a finance background might be able to educate their co-workers in accounting about cyberrisk.She’s grown her team by about 25 percent over the last year with developers, consultants and research professionals. She said being more flexible in hiring, and hiring outside of the normal pipeline, had evened out some of the inequities in the field — like a relative dearth of minorities and women.“To solve the skills shortage, we have to hire people who have the right aptitude, who have the right attitude, people who are curious, are willing to learn,” Ms. Naidoo said. “Outside of that, I have very few other criteria. I’m opening the aperture for where we look. I’m trying to hire in nontraditional places, nontraditional groups of people, and so I don’t expect them to have the skills or the experience that we need. I will hire people wherever I can find them.”Michael Doran, 38, was a police officer in St. Louis for almost 10 years before going into cybersecurity.“I quickly found out a lot of the older detectives were not doing a lot of the computer crimes,” he said. “I saw my opening there to make a niche for myself.”After learning about the field of digital forensics, he took free, online courses through the National White Collar Crime Center. He then decided to get another bachelor’s degree and a master’s degree online in computer forensics and intelligence. He studied at Utica College from home while working full time.He went to the cybercrimes unit as a forensic digital examiner within the St. Louis police department’s cybercrime unit. But it didn’t take long for the private industry to scoop him up.“It was an offer I couldn’t refuse,” he said, speaking of more than doubling his salary to near six figures. “I took that chance, and I haven’t looked back since.”He’s now a senior security consultant within the enterprise incident management team for Optiv, a cybersecurity company, where he performs digital forensics and interacts with clients.More C-suite executives are filling their own skills gaps when it comes to cybersecurity, said Eric Rosenbach, co-director of the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard Kennedy School and former chief of staff at the Defense Department.He runs an online class for working, senior-level executives “who are only now seeing how seriously they need to take it because they’ve seen so many other C.E.O.s get fired for major breaches,” said Mr. Rosenbach.Offered at least six times a year, the classes educate 300 to 400 people each term. He says executives need to know how to minimize the legal, financial and public relations risks before an attack occurs.Beyond the particular needs of firms in the cybersecurity arena, there is also a skills gap in the larger population that needs to be addressed, Mr. Rosenbach said.“I’m surprised, even at Harvard, how few of the students here know very basic stuff about cyberhygiene, two-factor authentication, things like that, that people should be doing to protect themselves,” he said.“One thing I don’t think people appreciate as much is that cyber is about human issues, it’s about training people not to do dumb things like click on spear-phishing links, holding people accountable. There’s a lot of human leadership involved in trying to improve cybersecurity.”
Supported byAnother ViewBy Craig A. NewmanGet the DealBook newsletter to make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.__________Shareholders haven’t been successful in holding companies accountable for data breaches.That changed in the first month of 2019.The former officers and directors of Yahoo agreed to pay $29 million to settle charges that they breached their fiduciary duties in their handling of customer data during a series of cyberattacks from 2013 until 2016. Three billion Yahoo user accounts were compromised in the attacks. The settlement ended three so-called derivative lawsuits filed in Delaware and California against the company’s former leadership team and board, including Marissa Mayer, Yahoo’s former chief executive. Insurance coverage will pick up the tab.The settlement, approved this month by a Superior Court judge in Santa Clara, Calif., marked the first time that shareholders have been awarded a monetary damages in a derivative lawsuit related to a data breach. There have been very few breach-related derivative lawsuits, and all had been dismissed by the courts or settled without a payment to the shareholders.A derivative lawsuit is a legal mechanism that gives the owners of a company — the shareholders — a way to hold corporate directors and management accountable for their actions. Shareholders file a claim on the company’s behalf, with any money recovered going to the corporation, not the individual shareholders, because the violation harmed only the organization.Under the Yahoo settlement, the lawyers walk away with about $11 million in fees and expenses, with the remaining $18 million paid to Yahoo, now called Altaba after Verizon acquired Yahoo’s internet business in 2017.A $29 million settlement might seem trivial for a company that has a market capitalization of $38 billion. But it signals that director and officer liability for cybersecurity oversight is entering new and potentially perilous territory. That is especially so in cases like Yahoo’s, in which shareholders allege egregious misconduct at the highest levels of an organization.Those allegations might explain why the Yahoo case was settled.Insurers don’t typically cough up tens of millions of dollars to settle derivative cases, which can be tough for shareholders to win. They must show that board members breached their fiduciary responsibilities by consciously disregarding their duties. The chief justice of the Delaware Supreme Court has called these claims “possibly the most difficult theory in corporation law upon which a plaintiff might hope to win a judgment.”The parties jointly told the court that the settlement was fair, in the best interest of all parties, and that a series of data security improvements have been worked out to minimize the chances that this will happen again. But the facts of the case most likely led the insurers to conclude that their exposure could be greater than the settlement.The reason is that the actions alleged in the lawsuit are outrageous. The nearly 120-page complaint — which is heavily redacted — reads at points more like a criminal indictment than a lawsuit. It accuses Yahoo’s former leaders of engaging in an elaborate, yearslong plot to cover up hacks going back to 2013 and conducting a “sham” investigation to “conceal the largest hacking incident in U.S. history.”Yahoo was a pioneer of the internet era, and the core of its business was providing ways for users to communicate with one another confidentially. Yet Yahoo failed miserably at this fundamental mission, according to the shareholders’ complaint. The expectations for consumer privacy and data security are far different for an internet company than a corner hardware store. The insurance carriers clearly understood this fact.The company’s settlement with the Securities and Exchange Commission in April provided further fodder to justify a settlement. The S.E.C. tagged Altaba with a $35 million penalty for failing to make a timely disclosure of the data breach, the commission’s first action for a cybersecurity disclosure violation.But it’s the details of the S.E.C. settlement that most likely proved the most troubling for the insurers. According to the S.E.C., “In late 2014, Yahoo had learned of a massive breach of its user database that resulted in the theft, unauthorized access or acquisition of hundreds of millions of its user’s personal data.” The agency further alleged that “Yahoo senior management and relevant legal staff did not properly assess the scope, business impact or legal implications of the breach” and “did not share information regarding the breach with Yahoo’s auditors or outside counsel.”Yahoo didn’t disclose the breach until September 2016, when it was negotiating the sale of its internet business to Verizon. Although the transaction was completed, the acquisition price was lowered by $350 million to $4.48 billion. That made for bad optics, a fact that the insurers probably recognized.Any company that figured it had little to fear from shareholders after a breach should now think twice. And in the meantime, this is definitely not the time to cut back insurance for officers and directors.Craig A. Newman is a partner and chair of the privacy practice at Patterson Belknap Webb &amp; Tyler, a New York law firm.
Supported byBy Ellen RosenThey have names like Notpetya, Samsam and perhaps the most cynically named WannaCry.These are just some of the most recent cyberattacks that have not only affected financial institutions, retailers and shipping companies but have also plagued manufacturers, like Merck &amp; Company, the pharmaceutical firm, and the snack company Mondelez International.Whether they come from ransomware, phishing or more arcane, highly sophisticated means, manufacturers are increasingly vulnerable to attacks that can shut down production and have ramifications throughout a supply chain.And it is not just the giants that get hacked; external threats can be agnostic, affecting manufacturers regardless of size.Thomas Siebel, the chairman and chief executive of C3, an artificial intelligence platform based in Redwood City, Calif., and the founder of Siebel Systems, puts it more bluntly, “Manufacturers are sloppy when it comes to cybersecurity.”The Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company learned that the hard way in August. A third-party vendor shipped software to the chip maker without pre-screening it. An engineer at Taiwan Semiconductor failed to scan the software, which was infected with the WannaCry ransomware, installed it and then connected it to the company’s operating system. The undetected virus then spread.The chief executive, C.C. Wei, speaking at a news conference at the time, rejected rumors of hacking. Instead, he acknowledged, it was “purely our own act of negligence.”But the company was lucky. A full recovery took only a few days, and while initially it seemed that third-quarter revenue would be off by 2 percent, Elizabeth Sun, a company spokeswoman, said in an email that the revenues did not suffer because Taiwan Semiconductor fulfilled some of the delayed orders, while “increases in demand in other areas” helped to offset the losses.Mondelez International and Merck suffered much more significant losses after the 2017 Notpetya attack, although they described them differently in filings.In its annual report for 2017 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Mondelez stated that the “malware affected a significant portion of our global sales, distribution and financial networks.” The net revenue loss, the company said, was less than 1 percent of the company’s global net revenues of $25.9 billion. That still amounts to $103.6 million. In addition, the company incurred “incremental expenses of $84 million predominantly during the second half of 2017 as part of the recovery effort.”Merck, in its S.E.C. filings, stated that the attack “led to a disruption of its worldwide operations, including manufacturing, research and sales operations.” The fallout was significant: a $260 million loss in sales for 2017 with an expected additional loss for 2018 of $200 million. The total costs for expenses and remediation are $285 million, a net amount after insurance.Unlike Taiwan Semiconductor, neither Merck nor Mondelez described how the malware infected their operations. Boeing was said to have been attacked by WannaCry as well in March, but the company downplayed the hacking.While manufacturers weren’t traditionally at risk when hackers sought troves of individual data that could be sold for financial gain, motives have become more complex.Some using ransomware hope to extort money — sometimes in the form of cryptocurrencies — from companies whose systems are shut down. Others seek to steal intellectual property — a host of trade secrets including patent information and formulas, as well as blueprints and schematics.And last year’s NotPetya attack, which overall inflicted more than $1 billion in damage worldwide, was linked to the Russian military, the C.I.A. found.Irrespective of method or motive, the costs can be high, whether resulting from the ransom demands or the ensuing business disruption. Michael Tanenbaum an executive vice president of insurer Chubb, said attacks “have gone from being a nuisance to significant, with some demands exceeding seven figures.”Apart from the disruption to business, public companies that are hacked may also face scrutiny by the S.E.C. for failure to have a sufficient system of internal accounting controls, the agency warned in October.It doesn’t need to be that way, Mr. Siebel said. “It’s amazing what you can do with off-the-shelf cybersecurity products. Ninety percent of penetration can be stopped with fundamental practices that most people aren’t following, like employee training, two-factor authorization, changing passwords and fixing USB ports so they can’t download.”The vulnerabilities run from the mundane to the high-tech. Despite training and repeated warnings, employees still open phishing emails that can disrupt a company. Mr. Tanenbaum said that, according to a Chubb index, 50 percent of manufacturing losses in 2018 had resulted from phishing attacks or those known as “spear phishing,” which used some specific information to trick the recipient.“It means that individuals are clicking on links more readily in manufacturing than other industries,” he said. “This can cause real harm.”But there’s much more. A manufacturer’s exposure exists throughout a facility. Rare is the employee who punches a clock at the beginning of the day; instead, workers log in with passwords or biometrics.The vulnerabilities can be surprisingly simple and can emanate even from outdated equipment. John Reed Stark, president of John Reed Stark Consulting, a cybersecurity advisory firm, said a company, could, for example, have an old printer remain on a network even if it’s not used. A hacker could, through a phishing scheme, pick up the administrative passwords and then gain network access through the obsolete, but still connected printer. “And it can be difficult to know exactly what’s been exfiltrated — or stolen — from the network.”That was the vulnerability with the Notpetya attack — outdated Windows XP for which there hadn’t been updated security. While Microsoft did release a so-called patch to fix the problem, other outdated technologies still in use can result in exposure.So-called ntracontrol systems can connect aging as well as newer equipment, and frequently it’s difficult to shut some down without disrupting production. But if a manufacturer doesn’t take equipment offline to update security, there’s a risk that a ransomware attack, for example, could take an entire production line down, Mr. Tanenbaum explained.The growth of the Internet of Things — the direct connecting and communicating of disparate pieces of equipment — makes the potential for abuse even worse. While it is not yet considered an immediate concern, as hackers develop more sophisticated methods, the exposure could grow exponentially.“Manufacturing equipment is getting smarter, and we’re now moving into the information technology world in the manufacturing space,” said Manesh Patel, the senior vice president and chief information officer of the Sanmina Corporation, a Fortune 500 maker of optical, electronic and mechanical products based in San Jose, Calif. Many I.T. organizations, he added, focus on operations such as human resources, but still aren’t as well connected to the manufacturing side of the business.MForesight an independent, nonprofit manufacturing consortium focused on “technology, policy and the work force” has sounded the alarm and among other recommendations, suggests establishing organizations to “facilitate fault-free, anonymous sharing of incidents, threats, vulnerabilities, best practices and solutions.” The group also suggests developing a “comprehensive framework specifically for manufacturing supply chain cybersecurity, similar to existing frameworks on cybersecurity and cyberphysical security.”While comparing information seems at odds with companies that often compete, Mr. Patel, for one, stressed the importance of superior cybersecurity measures over a perceived competitive advantage.Mr. Patel, who said his company’s investment in cybersecurity measures has “increased 100 percent over the past three years,” also recommended segmenting, which means keeping systems on a network separate from each other. This can permit vendors to regularly update its equipment without having access to other parts of the system.Segmenting, he explained, secures a network so that it is not exposed to a potential breach from the vendor. It’s a relatively new area and if done incorrectly, can cause its own headaches. “We’re at the early stages of getting the grips of it.”Mr. Siebel has also asked known hackers to test his system by trying to infiltrate it. “We have hackers beating up our systems, and so far only one guy has gotten through, and we paid him a reward. He found a vulnerability, and we fixed it.Another approach is to adopt something called whitelisting. For years, Mr. Patel said, most companies had software that excluded known viruses, essentially blacklisting potential problems. But that was too reactive and sometimes exposed systems to unknown attackers. Now, he said, the better approach is to whitelist — that is specify approved software applications that are permitted to be active on a computer system. “It’s increasingly become one of the most important types of defenses.”Manufacturers also need to know the precautions that others — whether suppliers or customers — are taking, especially as they have increased access to equipment.“You are only as strong as your weakest link,” Mr. Stark said. “Hackers will find that weakest link and can break in and attack others in the supply chain. Companies are connected in ways that are extremely complex, and anyone in the supply chain can be vulnerable and could be the source of an attack.”
Supported byBy Daniel VictorHONG KONG — A lot of people don’t use computers. Most of them aren’t in charge of a nation’s cybersecurity.But one is. Japanese lawmakers were aghast on Wednesday when Yoshitaka Sakurada, 68, the minister who heads the government’s cybersecurity office, said during questioning in Parliament that he had no need for the devices, and appeared confused when asked basic technology questions.“I have been independently running my own business since I was 25 years old,” he said. When computer use is necessary, he said, “I order my employees or secretaries” to do it.“I don’t type on a computer,” he added.Asked by a lawmaker if nuclear power plants allowed the use of USB drives, a common technology widely considered to be a security risk, Mr. Sakurada did not seem to understand what they were.“I don’t know details well,” he said. “So how about having an expert answer your question if necessary, how’s that?”The comments were immediately criticized.“I can’t believe that a person who never used a computer is in charge of cybersecurity measures,” said Masato Imai, an opposition lawmaker.Even before his admission on Wednesday, Mr. Sakurada, who is also overseeing the 2020 Olympics in Tokyo, had occasionally attracted media coverage for head-scratching public comments. A week before his comments on cybersecurity, The Asahi Shimbun wrote that he showed a “knack for giving baffling replies.”His responses to questions about Olympic preparations “showed a stunning lack of understanding of basic issues concerning the event,” the newspaper wrote.He fumbled questions about how much the event would cost and whether North Korean officials would be attending, frequently turning to his aides for help, according to the newspaper. He said he had stumbled because he did not know the questions ahead of time.In 2016, he apologized after saying that so-called comfort women — Koreans who were abducted and forced to become sex slaves for the Imperial Japanese Army before and during World War II — were “prostitutes by occupation” and that people had been “heavily misled by propaganda work treating them as if they were victims.”His comments came a month after Japan and South Korea had officially settled a long-simmering dispute about reparations for the women, which remains a sore spot in relations between the two countries.The Japanese prime minister, Shinzo Abe, gave Mr. Sakurada oversight of cybersecurity and the Olympics and Paralympics last month in a cabinet shake-up.Hisako Ueno contributed reporting from Tokyo.
Supported byBy Stacy CowleyTwo years ago, IBM opened one of the nation’s first commercial cybersecurity ranges in Cambridge, Mass., to let companies practice responding to simulated cyberattacks. It describes the experience as “a game of Clue mixed with a Disney roller-coaster ride.”In a windowless bunker packed with a data center, wall-to-wall monitors, atmospheric controls, dozens of work stations and a functional TV studio, participants have about four hours to investigate and respond to a fictional data breach. It’s like an escape room for security nerds.The experience proved so popular — about 2,000 people, including chief executives and entire corporate boards, have played IBM’s game, which has an eight-month waiting list — that IBM decided to build a second range.But this time, it’s going mobile.The move is a reflection of the extent to which the threat of cyberattacks has captured the attention of organizations of all kinds, including the technology companies Facebook and Google, banks, military installations and those who run industrial control systems, like electricity and water providers. Tampering was a major issue in the election of President Trump, of course, and is cause for concern as the midterm elections approach.While companies are scrambling to get up to speed, they can’t always send an entire team away for a few days of training on how to spot and respond to a cyberattack.Starting Monday the company is introducing its mobile cyber command center, tucked into a heavily customized semitrailer truck. What IBM calls its “cyber tactical operations center” will make stops at college campuses and security-focused events before heading to Europe for a lengthy tour.Officially, the trailer is intended for cybersecurity education and as a mobile response unit. Unofficially, it’s also a playground packed with tech bling where geeks can experiment with ways to combat cyberattacks that have yet to be imagined.“People have put all kinds of cool things into trailers, but nobody has ever put a cyber command center into one before,” said Caleb Barlow, a vice president at IBM Security, where he leads the companys X-Force Threat Intelligence organization and created the Cambridge range.Touch screens displaying real-time threat monitoring — preferably with as many blinking charts and scary graphics as possible — are a must in any cyber war room. For the truck, IBM bought a 12-foot-long exterior screen that it said was one of the largest high-definition displays ever mounted to a vehicle.It also crammed in 20,000 feet of networking cable, two satellite dishes with cellular links, a generator-fueled power plant and a light tower with the intensity of 60 car headlights. Its data center, stuffed with server racks and multimedia controls, fits into a space the size of a large refrigerator.“This is toward the upper end of the most complicated trailers we’ve ever built,” said Mike Galvin, a sales manager for Featherlite, a manufacturer in Cresco, Iowa, that makes specialty trailers for emergency responders, mobile medical clinics and Nascar teams.On the road, the truck looks like any other shipping trailer hauling goods. But when it parks, it unfolds and triples its size. Beneath an extended canopy, IBM can unfurl a command post with 22 Mac-equipped work stations and a six-seat conference room.The main training room closely resembles IBM’s Cambridge range, with touch-screen monitors on three walls showing charts, video clips and forensic material like snippets of malicious computer code. From a tablet, IBM’s employees can adjust the room’s displays. A tap on the tablet’s “breaking news” button shifts the room’s lighting from a soothing blue to urgent red.“It helps us get the cortisol going,” Mr. Barlow said. “People react unconsciously to the visual cues.”Cyber ranges take their inspiration from the military. Just as soldiers train in simulated environments for the conditions they might face in battle, cyber defenders regularly practice on virtual networks. A growing number of companies participate in cyber war games and stage mock attacks to test their defenses.But few have the resources to build their own training arenas — a gap that security vendors are eager to fill. The companies Cyberbit and SimSpace make custom virtual ranges, and the military contractor Raytheon opened a 30,000-square-foot “live fire” range in 2015 for its customers.Sean McKee, a senior cyber threat manager for TD Bank, visited IBM’s Cambridge range this year and was intrigued enough to plan a two-day training exercise there in December for 40 TD Bank employees.The bank tests its crisis management plans at least once a year, incorporating everyone from front-line responders to its top executives, but its capabilities are less immersive than IBM’s, Mr. McKee said.In IBM’s training game, if an executive bungles a media interview, the range’s TV screens show the company’s stock price plunging as customers fire off angry Tweets. (Clips from Equifax’s widely criticized response to a data breach that exposed sensitive information on more than 145 million people are prominently featured in IBM’s presentation.)“People immediately get to see the results of their actions,” Mr. McKee said. “It gives them a sense that there are other forces at play here and the decisions you make in a moment of crisis are going to have a lasting impact on your organization.”Cybersecurity has become one of corporate America’s most pressing challenges, especially for companies that hold money or sensitive personal details. At least $445 billion was lost last year to cybercrime, a global economic study found, and an estimated 11 billion records have been stolen in data breaches, according to data compiled by the Privacy Rights Clearinghouse.Regulators, lawmakers and corporate customers have responded with more stringent requirements that companies improve their defenses and practice their crisis-response plans for handling significant attacks.“We’ve had growing demand from boards and C-suites, and it’s hard to get those people out to Cambridge,” Mr. Barlow said. “This is a way to bring training to them.”At the debut in Brooklyn, IBM plans to show off its new mobile system at a customer conference. Next week, it will head to the National Mall in Washington for a training event tied to efforts to prevent election hacking, and in November, it’s going to the Rochester Institute of Technology for a national penetration testing competition for college students.IBM is still figuring out exactly what it will do with its new toy. The truck is a fully functional command center, Mr. Barlow said. It could, in theory, be sent to large events — IBM works on cybersecurity for the United States Open and Wimbledon tennis tournaments — to handle real-time threat response.But its main purpose will be training. IBM plans to re-create its Cambridge mock-attack scenarios and build custom exercises for companies looking to test their skills.Mr. McKee, a former Canadian army officer, said that his bank, like many, had responded to escalating threats by increasing the pace and complexity of its training exercises. TD Bank’s session in December at the Cambridge range will mix technical challenges for the bank’s security incident response team with legal, public relations and privacy trials for its top executives.“I always run these exercises with the caveat that this is not a test,” he said. “A test is pass or fail. If you have certain areas where you go down in a flaming ball of fire, that’s a success. You found a critical vulnerability in your response.”
Supported byThe administration’s new policy of striking first at online attackers might invite cyberattacks, not deter them. By Josephine WolffMs. Wolff is an assistant professor at the Rochester Institute of Technology. At first glance, it would be easy to confuse the Trump administration’s new National Cyber Strategy with its predecessors: the Obama administration’s 2009 Cyberspace Policy Review and George W. Bush’s 2003 National Strategy to Secure Cyberspace. All three documents emphasize strikingly similar goals: the importance of hardening critical infrastructure, working with the private sector, securing government networks and establishing more robust partnerships for sharing information about online threats. Despite its similarities with previous administrations’ plans, however, the National Cyber Strategy represents an abrupt and reckless shift in how the United States government engages with adversaries online. Instead of continuing to focus on strengthening defensive technologies and minimizing the impact of security breaches, the Trump administration plans to ramp up offensive cyberoperations. The new goal: deter adversaries through pre-emptive cyberattacks and make other nations fear our retaliatory powers. The framework for this shift to an offense-first strategy is found in three recently announced pieces of policy. The first, the National Cyber Strategy, outlines a broad vision of how the administration plans to approach online issues and emphasizes the importance of imposing “swift, costly and transparent consequences” on online attackers. The second is the new Department of Defense cyber strategy, a more detailed plan for how the military will approach cybersecurity. It outlines a plan to “defend forward” by going after threats “before they reach their targets” and disrupting “malicious cyber activity at its source.” And the third is the classified National Security Presidential Memorandum 13, which makes it easier for the military to launch offensive cyberoperations by largely eliminating a lengthy interagency approval process put in place by the Obama administration.The idea of using offensive cyberattacks for defensive purposes is not a new one — discussions about the potential risks and rewards of “hacking back,” especially in the private sector, go back more than five years. But for the American government to embrace this strategy is a sharp change from the cautious, defense-oriented approach of the past decade. President Barack Obama was notably restrained in his authorization of offensive cyber missions. When deciding whether to use the Stuxnet worm to compromise uranium enrichment facilities in Iran in 2010 (his administration’s most famous use of offensive cyber capabilities), he reportedly expressed repeated concerns about the precedent it would set for other countries. The Obama administration’s forbearance and careful decision-making around cyberattack authorization aligns with the 2015 Department of Defense cyber strategy, which identified controlling the escalation of cyber conflicts as a key strategic goal. That goal is conspicuously absent from the Department of Defense’s new strategy. The Trump administration’s shift to an offensive approach is designed to escalate cyber conflicts, and that escalation could be dangerous. Not only will it detract resources and attention from the more pressing issues of defense and risk management, but it will also encourage the government to act recklessly in directing cyberattacks at targets before they can be certain of who those targets are and what they are doing. One of the advantages of the slow, unwieldy approval processes put into place by previous administrations is that they gave the government ample time to ascertain who was behind a cyberattack. That is not always easy to do: Many adversaries route cyberattacks through compromised third-party machines in other countries, such as university computer systems. Rushing to retaliate may make it more likely that the United States will lash out at the wrong target, which may invite new attacks rather than deter them. It could also lead to more attacks from existing adversaries like Russia and North Korea, from whom we already face substantial online threats. These countries have demonstrated their considerable online capabilities in cyberattacks directed at hospitals and power companies. If the United States pre-emptively attacks their servers and online infrastructure, it will only provoke greater and more damaging shows of force. And what these countries are capable of will be every bit as terrifying and harmful as what we can do. There is no evidence that pre-emptive cyberattacks will serve as effective deterrents to our adversaries in cyberspace. In fact, every time a country has initiated an unprompted cyberattack, it has invariably led to more conflict and has encouraged retaliatory breaches rather than deterring them. Nearly every major publicly known online intrusion that Russia or North Korea has perpetrated against the United States has had significant and unpleasant consequences. When North Korea compromised Sony Pictures in 2014 and stole the company’s data, it experienced a national disruption to its internet connectivity the following month. More recently, Russia has faced sanctions, indictments identifying their key online activities and personnel, and possibly covert cyber operations as punishment for a series of online intrusions and computer compromises. While nobody knows where these counterattacks originated, experts believe some of them came from the United States. Under the new attack-first policy, it’s likely that North Korea or Russia will retaliate against the United States in similar ways if threatened. For the United States, this is an especially risky approach given how much of our infrastructure — from energy distribution to financial systems to voting — is digitized and how vulnerable that dependence on computer networks makes us to cyberattacks.A smart national cyber strategy would focus on securing our computer systems, data and networks by allocating more money for their protection and by allocating more time and energy to regularly update, measure and test their security. It would charge the government with attacking its own servers and systems domestically to identify potential vulnerabilities before foreign adversaries have a chance to exploit them, rather than encouraging officials to strike out at overseas targets. And it would reserve the use of offensive cyber capabilities for situations that allow for careful consideration of the possible unintended consequences, narrow tailoring to a specific mission and contained, targeted damage.Ironically, the new national cyber strategy also charges the United States government with enhancing cyber stability “through norms of responsible state behavior.” As the rest of its policies make all too clear, this administration has already committed itself to irresponsible uses of cyber force that may serve to destabilize everyone’s online infrastructure, including our own.Josephine Wolff is an assistant professor at the Rochester Institute of Technology and the author of “You’ll See This Message When It Is Too Late: The Legal and Economic Aftermath of Cybersecurity Breaches.”Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion).
Supported byOp-Ed ContributorBy Nathaniel FickLast week, we learned that researchers had discovered two major flaws in microprocessors of nearly all the world’s computers. The revelation came on the heels of a distressing series of major hacks: In 2017, Yahoo revealed that all of its three billion accounts were compromised, WannaCry ransomware shut down hospitals across the globe, and an Equifax breach affected approximately 145.5 million consumers in the United States. The latest news about the computer security problems — whose names, “Spectre” and “Meltdown,” appropriately convey their seriousness — is just the latest evidence that true digital security remains out of our reach.But when these vulnerabilities are exposed and damaging attacks occur, there are few lasting repercussions. Almost without fail, stock prices bounce back, customers return, executives keep their jobs or exit with golden parachutes, and government mostly looks the other way. After the news of Equifax’s massive breach, for example, the company’s stock dropped roughly 35 percent. But it’s already recovered nearly half of its lost market value, and Fortune reported that the former chief executive officer Richard Smith retired with as much as $90 million in compensation. Resilience is one of the hallmarks of stable, mature markets, but something isn’t right here.The tepid consequences are part of a growing problem. From a corporate governance and accountability perspective, cybersecurity today is being treated like accounting was before the fallout from the Enron scandal inspired the Sarbanes-Oxley Act’s increased standards for corporate disclosures. With the privacy and personal data of hundreds of millions of people at risk, and especially now with the increasing ubiquity of connected devices in our lives, the security of digital assets is too important for that kind of treatment. We need to bolster a culture of responsibility around cybersecurity, combining stronger and more uniform corporate governance with a clearer government commitment to enact better defensive policies.A complex hack may not be a C.E.O.’s fault, but it is absolutely his or her responsibility. Investors and consumers need to demand more from the executives to whom they entrust their digital lives. The same holds true for government. Protection of the welfare and livelihood of its citizens is a foundational principle of government, and yet for more than a decade there has been very little consequence for nation-states and state-affiliated groups who’ve pilfered the intellectual property, and violated the personal privacy, of citizens and companies around the world.Strengthening a culture of responsibility will require changes by both companies and the government. Last year, the New York State Department of Financial Services took a promising step by implementing new data-security regulations for certain financial companies operating within the state. It includes rules for reporting cybersecurity events within 72 hours, annual proof-of-penetration tests, and, by 2020, third-party assessments — all designed to increase accountability and remove the fog of uncertainty that often surrounds breaches. The federal government would be wise to follow New York’s lead and implement similar laws on the federal level. Without federal action in this regard, increased regulation of cybersecurity practices will happen anyway, but in a fragmentary and disjointed way. More uniform regulations can help a more uniform standard to emerge, providing companies with the predictability and certainty they need in order to evaluate their risk management and security investments the right way.While more must be expected of companies, more should be expected of government as well. American businesses are under attack by our nation’s geopolitical adversaries, and by nonstate groups affiliated with them. Just imagine if American shipping companies were battling foreign navies, or if domestic airlines were fighting an adversary’s air force. This asymmetry locks the businesses into fights they cannot win.In its most dire scenario, the increasing velocity and severity of cyberattacks on American companies may encourage more firms to take matters into their own hands by “hacking back” against their attackers. This would open a Pandora’s box of ugly consequences. Even large Wall Street banks, spending hundreds of millions of dollars each year on security, cannot win against the Chinese or Russian militaries, so they escalate at their peril.But if private companies and individuals are not to fight back in self-defense, then their government must do a better job on their behalf.In short, the federal government must ensure that deterrence works in the digital domain. Cyberconflicts often pit the vast resources of nation-states against those of private companies. Businesses can only be reasonably expected to agree to increased cybersecurity regulation if they have confidence in the government to perform its basic function of protecting its citizens.Just as policy frameworks exist to respond to, and dissuade, physical attacks on Americans and their interests, foreign and domestic, so the government must deter adventurism in cyberspace. Notably, this doesn’t merely mean that one hack justifies another — rather, the full range of diplomatic, informational, economic and military options should be on the table. Failure to make such consequences clear and credible contributes to a fundamental failure of deterrence in cyberspace and exposes the United States government, American businesses, and individual citizens to many more such attacks in the future.Every business is now a digital business, and nearly every citizen is increasingly reliant on the connected world. We live in an era of mass targeted attacks where nation state-level resources are being directed against companies and private citizens, and until our security culture changes, we can expect to see more massive breaches throughout 2018 and beyond.Nathaniel Fick is the chief executive of Endgame, a cybersecurity software company.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 
Supported byBy Daisuke WakabayashiSAN FRANCISCO — A cybersecurity company said it had discovered a flaw in WhatsApp, the Facebook-owned messaging service with 1.5 billion users, that allows scammers to alter the content or change the identity of the sender of a previously delivered message.By creating a hacked version of the WhatsApp application, scammers can change a “quote” — a feature that allows people within a chat to display a past message and reply to it — to give the impression that someone sent a message they did not actually send, according to the company, Check Point Software Technologies.WhatsApp acknowledged that it was possible for someone to manipulate the quote feature, but the company disagreed that it was a flaw. WhatsApp said the system was working as it had intended, because the trade-offs to prevent such a deception by verifying every message on the platform would create an enormous privacy risk or bog down the service. The company said it worked to find and remove anyone using a fake WhatsApp application to spoof the service.“We carefully reviewed this issue and it’s the equivalent of altering an email,” Carl Woog, a spokesman for WhatsApp, said in a statement. What Check Point discovered had nothing to do with the security of WhatsApp’s so-called end-to-end encryption, which ensures only the sender and recipient can read messages, he said.WhatsApp has 1.5 billion users on its platform, making it the world’s most widely used messaging app. It has gained popularity for the simplicity and security of its service, providing encryption so that even the company does not know the content of its users’ messages. Facebook acquired WhatsApp in 2014 for $19 billion.But it has come under fire in recent months for the spread of misinformation on its platform. In India, false rumors about child kidnappers circulating through WhatsApp led to mob violence. In Brazil, false stories about deadly reactions to vaccines for the yellow fever spread over the messaging service.Mr. Woog of WhatsApp said the company was taking “the challenge of misinformation seriously,” putting limits on how widely a message can be shared to different groups and attaching labels when a message has been forwarded. However, WhatsApp said the issue raised by Check Point was unrelated to its efforts to curb misinformation.Oded Vanunu, head of vulnerability research at Check Point, said the ability to alter messages gave attackers a powerful tool to spread misinformation from what appeared to be a trusted source. It is especially problematic in group chats, which can include up to 256 people. Multiple messages can come in at once and it can be easy to lose track of what someone has said, he said.“The public relies on the integrity of the message,” said Mr. Vanunu. “WhatsApp needs to adjust to prevent this simple manipulation.”For now, the issue appears limited to a discussion among security experts. Both WhatsApp and Check Point Software said they had not seen regular users creating fake quote messages in chats.Check Point said it also discovered a way within group chats to send a message to a specific individual within the discussion. That individual is tricked into believing that the whole group saw the message and responds accordingly.WhatsApp played down the concerns raised by Check Point, saying most people know the person who they are messaging on the service. The company said 90 percent of all messages on the service are sent in one-on-one conversations, and the majority of groups are six people or less — making it less likely that an unknown person can infiltrate a conversation to trick other users.A person can check the validity of a quote message by clicking on it. Doing so will take you back to the point in the chat when the message was sent unless the message was deleted or the person was not a participant in the chat when the message was sent.WhatsApp said the potential fixes to this issue were not worth trying. One solution would be to create transcripts of every message exchange to verify the accuracy of every quote. Creating such a transcript is a significant privacy risk because those accounts of what people wrote to each other must be stored somewhere, the company said.Follow Daisuke Wakabayashi on Twitter: @daiwaka
Supported byBy Remy Tumin and Hiroko Masuike(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. Top leaders of intelligence agencies made their annual appearance before the Senate to discuss the biggest threats to national security.Cyberthreats from China and Russia were high on the agenda. Among other observations: North Korea is “unlikely to give up” all of its nuclear stockpiles and Iran is not actively trying to make a nuclear bomb — both direct contradictions of President Trump’s foreign policy tenets. Above from left, the F.B.I. director, Christopher Wray; the C.I.A. director, Gina Haspel; and the director of national intelligence, Dan Coats.Also notable was the absence of any rationale for building a wall along the southwestern border, which Mr. Trump has characterized as the country’s most critical security threat._____2. It’s so cold that…This is not the setup to a bad joke. Temperatures are growing dangerously low across the Midwest this week. You could get frostbite in as little as five minutes; it will be warmer in Antarctica than in Des Moines; it could feel like minus 65 in Minneapolis.Hundreds of schools are being closed, and the governors of Illinois, Michigan and Wisconsin have declared emergencies. Above, Lake Michigan freezing over in Chicago.How can it get so cold if the Earth is warming? Because climate and weather are not the same thing._____3. British lawmakers, voting on a broad spectrum of amendments to Prime Minister Theresa May’s E.U. withdrawal plan, embraced a measure that, in principle, rules out withdrawing without a deal.Parliament also rejected delaying Brexit beyond the March 29 deadline. Above, protesters on both sides of the issue outside Parliament on Tuesday.Before the voting session, Mrs. May raised the stakes by promising to reopen negotiations on the agreement — a 585-page text that the E.U. has said was its final offer. Critics think she is trying to run down the clock to present them with two options: her plan or no deal._____4. The U.S. State Department said it gave Juan Guaidó, above, the right to control Venezuelan assets and property in U.S. banks, one week after he declared himself the interim president of his country.The move is the latest part of the U.S. campaign to oust President Nicolás Maduro, whose re-election has been widely contested — but who still has the backing of the country’s generals.Venezuela has begun moving, carefully, against Mr. Guaidó. The chief prosecutor announced a formal investigation of him for antigovernment activities and encouraging protests. His assets have been frozen, and the government is trying to stop him from leaving the country._____5. Apple appears to be entering a rare period of vulnerability. The company said that profits were flat this quarter compared with a year ago, citing an economic slump in China.Consumer demand in China for expensive iPhones has slowed, particularly with the rise of cheaper, local alternatives. The company is also uniquely vulnerable to tariffs against China, where most of its products are assembled. Above, today at the New York Stock Exchange.And in another embarrassment for Apple, an iPhone bug allowed FaceTime users to eavesdrop through its video and audio calling app. Here’s how to disable FaceTime to avoid the glitch._____6. Pacific Gas and Electric, California’s largest utility, filed for bankruptcy protection. It is facing tens of billions of dollars in liability claims for two years of wildfires.Equipment owned and maintained by the utility sparked at least 17 of the 21 major wildfires that burned through California in 2017, but some argue that climate change and development in remote areas have made blazes more destructive. Above, a PG&amp;E crew working on power lines during the Camp Fire in November.The utility serves 16 million customers, whose electricity might become more expensive as PG&amp;E tries to recoup its losses from the fires. Here are answers to some other big questions about the bankruptcy._____7. Today’s 2020 update: Senator Kamala Harris, the most high-profile and politically connected black woman to run for president, would seem well positioned to secure the support of black voters that buoyed former President Barack Obama in 2008.Yet interviews in early primary states like South Carolina and her home state, California, show the challenges she faces: activists’ skepticism of her record as a prosecutor, the desire for a push further to the left, sexism and some concern that a female candidate might not beat President Trump. Above, Ms. Harris at a local sorority chapter in South Carolina.“I don’t know, I need to see her devotion to the African-American community,” said one resident of Columbia, S.C._____8. Want to know why you fall facefirst into the ocean every time you go surfing? Let’s go to the videotapes.At the new Surf Simply resort in Costa Rica, guests are filmed as they catch a wave, and that’s just the start of personalized, tech-based coaching. Surf Simply is so popular that sessions routinely get booked out a year in advance (a one-week stay starts at about $4,500).One repeat surf guest summed it up: “It’s the school for surf nerds — but it’s the coolest nerds you’ve ever met.”_____9. A few words from the stars.Over four seasons, the Netflix series “Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt” turned the story of a woman freed after being kidnapped and held underground for 15 years into a sprightly, joyous comedy.As the series ends, its lead actress, Ellie Kemper, above, reflects on what she learned from her castmates and what it’s like to “be a part of a show that seems to make people feel better.”And the actress and director Lena Dunham pays homage to her literary hero, Diana Athill, the British centenarian who died last week after a life of both fierce independence and marvelous affirmation._____10. Finally, Aztec legend meets science.The axolotl, a tube-sock-like salamander, was thought to be a god who transformed himself to avoid sacrifice. Many animals can perform some degree of regeneration, but axolotls can grow back a nearly perfect replica of just about any body part (excepting, of course, the head).Now, researchers reported the most complete assembly of DNA yet for the striking amphibian, also known as the Mexican walking fish. Fully mapping its genome could unlock some of the secrets of regeneration for humans.Have a restorative night._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.
Supported byBreakingviewsBy Richard BealesGet the DealBook newsletter to make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.__________Tensions over tariffs and pacts like the North American Free Trade Agreement have dominated recent economic headlines, but Thursday’s triple-whammy of cyber hacking news gives justified prominence to what may be an even bigger threat to global prosperity.Cyber crime costs the world almost $600 billion annually, according to a report published earlier this year by the think tank Center for Strategic and International Studies and the cyber security company McAfee. That’s a potential hole of around 0.7 percent in global gross domestic product, as measured by the International Monetary Fund.The I.M.F. said in July that the emergence of a trade war could dent world output by 0.5 percent by 2020. That’s a big concern, but at under $450 billion — calculated by simply translating the total estimated shortfall into dollars — not as large as the annual impact of cyber crime.Investors and companies are aware of both risks. They rank trade-related factors and cyber threats among their top worries, according to surveys by the professional services PricewaterhouseCoopers. But tit-for-tat political rhetoric and tariffs, along with tales of dairy farmers’ personal struggles with trade barriers, often make bigger headlines than stories about the nefarious manipulation of computer software.It is relatively easy, however, to grasp the implications of Bloomberg Businessweek’s investigation into alleged Chinese government interference in the manufacture of cloud-storage hardware used by American giants like Apple and Amazon. It’s also possible to relate to Britain and the Netherlands going after Moscow for trying to hack a multilateral chemical-weapons-monitoring body — especially after the dramatic poisoning of a former double agent in Britain. The same goes for the United States Department of Justice indicting Russian military personnel for cyber intrusions that affected sports-doping watchdogs.In a speech on Thursday, Vice President Mike Pence took aim at Beijing’s various efforts to advance its interests at the expense of Washington’s, from domestic policy to cyber crime and propaganda. Of course, the United States and its allies also participate in cyber offensives aimed the other way.With all this publicity, though, at least investors can’t claim they weren’t warned.Richard Beales is a columnist at Reuters Breakingviews. For more independent commentary and analysis, visit breakingviews.com.Get the DealBook newsletter to make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.
Supported byAnother ViewBy Craig A. NewmanThe public’s confidence in the capability of companies to protect customers’ personal information has taken a beating in recent weeks.Customers of Sears and Kmart, Best Buy, Saks Fifth Avenue and Lord &amp; Taylor, and Delta Air Lines recently learned that hacks have exposed their personal data, including credit and debit card numbers. And then there’s the disclosure that Cambridge Analytica harvested the personal information of nearly 87 million Facebook users.Despite these disclosures and others, we continue to entrust our personal information to businesses without any standard for judging how safe it is. It doesn’t have to be that way.When we head out for dinner in major cities, for example, the restaurant has a letter grade from the health inspector in the window. As a society, we recognize that when consumers dine out, they may be putting their health at risk. We require, in turn, that restaurants display the simple but powerful information about their hygienic standards.There is no equivalent standard by which a consumer may judge the data security practices of a business.That lack of public information about the cyber-preparedness of businesses is all the more striking given the relative severity of the threat. More than half the adult population of the United States was affected by the breach of Equifax last year.Unfortunately, we have become inured to these hacks. Our response to breaches has become routine: more calls for regulation, followed by congressional hearings and failed regulatory proposals. Consumers go about their lives, numbed by the frequency and the lack of consequences. Meanwhile, the hacks get worse.This cycle stems in part from a lack of information about the security practices of businesses. But forcing companies to explain how they are keeping the bad guys out would only help the bad guys.The simple grading system used by restaurant regulators can and should be a model to inform the public about the digital security of businesses that store sensitive consumer data. A letter grade is a crude measure to assess a complex issue like cybersecurity to be sure, but what the metric lacks in nuance it makes up for with brute force.Current measures to assess cyber-preparedness are either not compulsory or too complex. The federal government’s National Institute of Standards and Technology framework is widely respected, but it’s voluntary, underused and not easily digestible for the average consumer. Only seven Fortune 500 companies mentioned it in their annual filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission last year, and only one said it had adopted it.MSCI — an index provider and independent research firm for institutional investors — ranks companies on cybersecurity. More than a year before Equifax’s breach was revealed, MSCI scored Equifax a 0 out of 10 on privacy and data security. As prescient as it was, consumers would have had difficulty absorbing such a rating, which is just one of several components that MSCI uses to arrive at an environmental, social and governance, or E.S.G., rating of overall corporate citizenship.A new grading system should start with the basics: Are companies on top of data security, and if hacked, do they know how to reduce the impact?Each year, the Ponemon Institute, an independent research group, and IBM look at the cost of the average data security breach, as well as the average cost of each piece of data compromised. In 2017, the average cost of a data breach in the United States was $7.35 million, or $141 per record compromised. But if a company has an incident response team, uses encryption, trains its employees, has a business continuity program and monitors cyber-threat intelligence, that reduces the cost of the average data breach by nearly 47 percent. Using these five factors — weighed for their impact of cost reduction — is a simple starting point.There are plenty of details to be worked out about a cybersecurity grading system. But the one nonnegotiable aspect would be that, once assigned, letter grades must be made highly accessible to the public. Companies should be required to display their grades prominently at their physical locations, on their websites, on certain documents (mortgage applications, for example) and on credit card readers.A grading system would not solve every cybersecurity problem, nor prevent every breach. But our sad state of affairs — in which we are equal parts fearful, apathetic and ignorant about digital security — must change. Providing clearer information to the public is the most productive next step we can take.Craig A. Newman is a partner and chair of the privacy practice at Patterson Belknap Webb &amp; Tyler LLP, the New York law firm.
Supported byBy Nicole Perlroth and David E. SangerThe White House eliminated the position of cybersecurity coordinator on the National Security Council on Tuesday, doing away with a post central to developing policy to defend against increasingly sophisticated digital attacks and the use of offensive cyber weapons.A memorandum circulated by an aide to the new national security adviser, John R. Bolton, said the post was no longer considered necessary because lower-level officials had already made cybersecurity issues a “core function” of the president’s national security team.Cybersecurity experts and members of Congress said they were mystified by the move, though some suggested Mr. Bolton did not want any competitive power centers emerging inside the national security apparatus.The decision was criticized by Mark R. Warner, a senator from Virginia and the ranking Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee. “I don’t see how getting rid of the top cyber official in the White House does anything to make our country safer from cyber threats,” he wrote on Twitter.It was the latest in a series of steps that appeared to run counter to the prevailing view in Washington of cybersecurity’s importance.Two years ago, a commission established by President Barack Obama urged elevating the cybersecurity coordinator job and turning the position into an assistant to the president, on par to the assistant to the president for counterterrorism and homeland security — a reflection that various federal agencies did not have clear lines of authority or clear strategies in cybersecurity.President Trump began his administration with two respected veterans of cyber policy. He appointed Thomas P. Bossert, a lawyer in the administration of President George W. Bush, as the homeland security adviser.The cybersecurity coordinator who reported to him, Rob Joyce, had run the Tailored Access Operations unit of the N.S.A. — the unit that, until it was reorganized and renamed, was responsible for breaking into foreign computer systems as part of United States covert operations.Mr. Bossert and Mr. Joyce said Russia and North Korea were the culprits in major cyberattacks over the last year, and together they developed a system for making more public the decisions about which vulnerabilities to turn over to the private sector for patching — and which to retain in America’s arsenal for possible offensive use.Mr. Bossert was forced out on Mr. Bolton’s second day on the job, and Mr. Joyce returned to the N.S.A. on Friday.It is unclear how those issues will now be managed in the White House. Mr. Bolton has virtually no cyber-related experience. When he was last in government, as ambassador to the United Nations under President George W. Bush, cybersecurity was not formally considered a national threat. It is now listed as the No. 1 threat in the annual assessment that the director of national intelligence sends to Congress.Mr. Bolton has talked about “streamlining” the N.S.C., and so far that appears to have involved reducing many of the new positions created over the past decade.Mr. Bolton’s decision was first reported by Politico.The elimination of the cybersecurity role is likely to increase concern that the Trump administration is short-handed and unprepared to deal with increasing cybersecurity threats. The White House still has not presented a coherent plan to protect election systems in advance of the fall midterm elections.Russian hackers are believed to have penetrated election computers in a number of states, though there is no evidence that vote counts were changed. And authorities say hackers with Kremlin ties engaged in a wide-ranging campaign to attack the computer systems of Democratic officials and spread misinformation on social media before and after the 2016 presidential election.Security experts are also worried that hackers operating out of Iran or Russia could renew their efforts to penetrate computer systems in the United States, including machines that operate critical infrastructure like the electric power grid.The responsibilities of White House cybersecurity coordinator will be delegated to two members of the N.S.C.’s team.Joshua Steinman, who had little cybersecurity policy experience before joining the N.S.C., will assume responsibility for offensive policy, including responses to cyberthreats from foreign adversaries. The defensive and homeland security responsibilities will fall to Grant Schneider, who already serves in a dual role as acting United States chief information security officer and senior director for cybersecurity at the N.S.C.“Moving forward, these senior directors will coordinate cyber matters and policy. As they sit six feet apart from one another, they will be able to coordinate in real time,” Robert Palladino, an N.S.C. spokesman, said in a statement.Cybersecurity policy experts had been pressing the administration in recent weeks to keep the position. Michael Daniel, who was White House cybersecurity coordinator under the Obama administration, said the Trump administration was sending a message that “cybersecurity is not very important.”“The position is actually a very important one,” Mr. Daniel said. “The cyber threat landscape only getting worse, it’s not getting easier right now.”Follow Nicole Perlroth and David E. Sanger on Twitter: @nicoleperlroth and @SangerNYT
Supported byWhite Collar WatchBy Peter J. HenningAgatha Christie’s fictional sleuth Miss Marple once said in a BBC adaptation that “good advice is almost certain to be ignored, but that’s no reason for not giving it.” That may reflect how companies will respond to guidance recently issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission about how companies should deal with cybersecurity threats.Security breaches at companies like Equifax, Target and Yahoo over the past few years have exposed the personal information of millions of consumers. The federal government isn’t immune to hackers, either. The systems of the Office of Personnel Management and even the S.E.C. have been breached.The response from companies usually seems to be about keeping a lid on the hack. That’s something the S.E.C. would like to end, but its guidance may not go very far in changing how companies deal with cybersecurity issues.The S.E.C.’s guidance is full of good advice. The regulator tells companies that they need to have in place “disclosure controls and procedures that provide an appropriate method of discerning the impact that such matters may have on the company and its business, financial condition and results of operations.” Just as important, companies are expected “to disclose cybersecurity risks and incidents that are material to investors, including the concomitant financial, legal or reputational consequences.”Those are worthwhile reminders, but the S.E.C. has yet to institute any direct measures to compel companies to reveal the nature and scope of a cybersecurity breach.The Equifax breach, which affected more than 140 million people, came to the company’s attention in late July, but the public didn’t learn of it until early September. Whether keeping quiet for almost six weeks can be considered timely disclosure is an open question, but nothing happened to the company because of the delay.There will always be at least some lag time between discovering a theft of information and an assessment of its extent. Hackers don’t want to be discovered, so the scope of a breach may not be immediately apparent. But the S.E.C. pointed out that “an ongoing internal or external investigation — which often can be lengthy — would not on its own provide a basis for avoiding disclosures of a material cybersecurity incident.”The S.E.C. also warns companies about the potential for insider trading when they learn about a breach, which inevitably has a negative effect on the stock price once it is disclosed. It cautioned that “companies would be well served by considering how to avoid the appearance of improper trading during the period following an incident and prior to the dissemination of disclosure.”For example, just a few days after the breach at Equifax came to the company’s attention, four members of management, including the chief financial officer, sold $1.8 million worth of shares. An investigation by a special committee of the board of directors exonerated them, finding that none knew about the breach at the time, a key requirement to prove insider trading.The problem is that even the perception that corporate executives sold shares ahead of disclosing a cybersecurity problem can compound the negative publicity surrounding a breach.The S.E.C.’s guidance is certainly welcome, and it may nudge companies to be more aggressive in policing stock sales when a cybersecurity problem comes to light. The problem is that the advice can be easily ignored when a breach occurs. If the S.E.C. wants to send a message to companies, it may need to ratchet up the pressure by pursuing an enforcement action.Nothing gets the attention of corporate directors and executives like a case that describes how a failure to respond in a timely fashion resulted in a violation of disclosure requirements.The problem is that proving a case can be difficult because the standard for when information must be revealed is so elastic. Companies must reveal “material” information in a timely manner, which the Supreme Court said in Basic v. Levinson depended “on the significance the reasonable investor would place on” it. The point at which a cybersecurity breach reaches that level is almost impossible to describe with any precision.And that gives companies flexibility in deciding when the handiwork of hackers becomes material information for investors, despite the S.E.C.’s push for earlier disclosure.
Supported byBy Adam BaidawiMELBOURNE, Australia — The Australian government presented its annual cybersecurity report on Tuesday, revealing that one of its national security contractors had suffered a breach in which it lost a “significant amount of data” last year.Included in the report was a case study that said the government’s cybersecurity team discovered that an attacker had compromised the network of a “small Australian company with contracting links to national security projects,” adding that the attacker was on the network for an “extended period of time.”Though the report outlined the breach as a case study, Dan Tehan, a minister tasked with advising the prime minister on cybersecurity, did not divulge specifics to the local news media about who was affected or what data might have been compromised. “We don’t know and we cannot confirm exactly who the actor was,” he said Tuesday on ABC Radio.The revelation of the security contractor’s breach, and the lack of detail surrounding it, comes at a time of increased concern over the government’s ability to protect citizens’ personal information — especially when accounting for third parties that have access to sensitive data.Last week, Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull introduced a far-reaching plan to collect Australians’ driver’s license photos and distribute them across security agencies, leaving open the possibility of sharing them with private companies. Privacy advocates criticized the plan as risky, with some pointing to a hacking attack on Australian census data last year, and the revelation this year that Australians’ Medicare card details were being sold on the web for less than 30 Australian dollars, or around $23.Experts say that private industry has been one of the most glaring vulnerabilities in Australia’s cybersecurity. Tuesday’s report, the Australian Cyber Security Center Threat Report, noted that 734 private-sector systems of “national interest” were affected by cyberattacks last year.“Certain companies take cybersecurity quite seriously,” said Alana Maurushat, academic co-director of the Cyberspace Law and Policy Center at the University of New South Wales in Sydney. “But you have key industries to Australia who — while there may not be the same media coverage — you know through internal sources are being breached. Our mining industry has notoriously been rumored to have been breached by competitors.”Ms. Maurushat said that Australia as a whole was not far behind the rest of the developed world’s level of cybersecurity, but emphasized concerns about its private sector.“The crazy thing about this is that they don’t even know that they’ve been breached,” she said. “There are certain breaches that occur, and there are studies on this, where sometimes someone would be on your system for almost a year, without the breach even being noticed. That’s the stuff that keeps me up at night.”A cybersecurity report released this year by Telstra, the country’s dominant telecommunications company, said that 59 percent of surveyed companies in Australia had detected a security breach on at least a monthly basis. A similar number reported experiencing at least one ransomware attack. Over half of Australian organizations that came under such an attack paid the ransom, the report said.Ms. Maurushat said that, in part, Australia’s private-sector cybersecurity was lacking because of an acute shortage of skilled workers.The government report also noted “extensive” state-sponsored activity against Australia’s government, saying that its defense contractors continued to be targeted by foreign nations’ cyberespionage efforts.At a news conference on Tuesday, Mr. Tehan said that the government was pivoting toward offensive capabilities to “prevent and shut down safe havens for offshore cybercriminals.”Last year, the Australian government blamed foreign actors for an attack on its online census portal.“The whole census thing — that’s an I.B.M. mistake,” Ms. Maurushat said, referring to the technology company’s contracting role in the census. “That’s not a government mistake, that’s an industry mistake, from a company you wouldn’t expect to make those errors.”In a settlement over the census problems, I.B.M. paid the government about 30 million Australian dollars, or about $23 million.Not unlike vaccines and herd immunity, Ms. Maurushat said, a government’s cybersecurity is only as strong as those it chooses to share its data with.When asked whether Australia’s lagging digital infrastructure and poor internet speeds might have a detrimental effect on its security, Ms. Maurushat said that a beleaguered attempt to speed up Australia’s internet, the National Broadband Network initiative, may prove to be a silver lining.“It’s the opposite,” she said, adding that hackers rely on fast internet speeds. “So in some ways, if the N.B.N. is a disaster, it might be better for us.”Follow Adam Baidawi on Twitter @ads_b
Supported byBy David D. KirkpatrickLONDON — Russian hackers over the past 12 months have tried to attack the British energy, telecommunications and media industries, the government’s top cybersecurity official said Tuesday in a summary of a speech to be delivered on Wednesday.The warning, by Ciaran Martin, chief of the National Cyber Security Center, is the strongest indication yet that Russian cyberattacks on Western governments and industries may be far more persistent than United States or British officials have previously acknowledged.The speech also appeared to fit into a coordinated effort by the British government to publicly warn Russia that its efforts have been noticed. In a speech on Monday night, Prime Minister Theresa May addressed Russia directly. “We know what you are doing,” Mrs. May said. “And you will not succeed.” She accused the Kremlin of “threatening the international order on which we all depend.”Taken together, the two speeches are a sharp escalation in the public accusations around a conflict that has so far remained mostly in the shadows. Recent high-profile cyberattacks, however, have put new pressure on politicians to defend against the dangers.The most spectacular example is the break into the computer systems of the American Democratic Party during the 2016 presidential campaign, an attack American intelligence agencies have attributed to Russian hackers.But Britain this year was hit by the so-called WannaCry cyberattack, carried out by North Korea. It temporarily disabled the computer systems at several British hospitals, forcing the diversion of ambulances and the rescheduling of operations, before it was stopped by the lucky break of a lone amateur who successfully defused it.American government officials also reportedly concluded over the summer that Russia had penetrated the computer networks of companies that operate nuclear power stations and other energy facilities, evidently gathering information and probing for vulnerabilities. No operations were disrupted.The Russians also reportedly tried to break into the Irish electrical grid last summer, and British officials warned at the time that they appeared to be singling out British power companies as well. Russian hackers have successfully shut down power for a time in parts of Ukraine, which the Russians appear to treat as laboratory for testing such tactics.British and American intelligence officials say the Kremlin has deliberately cultivated a cottage industry of criminal hackers loosely affiliated with Russian intelligence agencies. Russian intelligence officials sometimes personally profit from the revenue from cybercrimes, and at other times they direct the hackers toward sabotage, espionage or other less lucrative objectives.Among other victories, the Russians appear to have collaborated with a group calling itself Shadow Brokers to release a trove of cyberespionage tactics stolen from the computers of the National Security Agency, including some incorporated in the WannaCry virus that have now been used against Western industries and governments.The summary released Tuesday of Mr. Martin’s speech provided no details of the specific Russian attacks over the last year on British energy, telecommunications or media companies. Nor did the statement discuss any possible Russian efforts to use social media or cyberespionage to influence elections in Britain, as the Kremlin has recently sought to do in the United States and France.But Mr. Martin said that fears of Russian election meddling have grown increasingly widespread throughout Europe. At a conference organized last month by the National Cyber Security Center, he said, two-thirds of the member states of the European Union were concerned about potential Russian interference in their internal elections.
Supported byBy Tariq PanjaEngland’s soccer federation has written to FIFA to express concerns about the leak of confidential antidoping correspondence by a hacking group believed to be based in Russia, and to request assurances about the soccer governing body’s cybersecurity preparations ahead of next year’s World Cup there.Since last year, leaks by the hacking group, known as Fancy Bears, have revealed confidential medical information of scores of top athletes, including tennis champions, track stars and an Olympic gymnast, who had received exemptions to take medication usually be banned under doping regulations. In August, the group turned its attention to soccer, naming 25 players granted similar waivers, known as therapeutic use exemptions, to take otherwise prohibited substances at the 2010 World Cup.Even before that hack, though, which also included an email from England’s Football Association’s integrity chief to FIFA, the English had been bolstering their cybersecurity to counter the growing threat from hackers worldwide, according to two people familiar with the organization’s plans. Among the precautions expected to be in place in Russia next year — England can qualify with a win or draw in its next match — England’s players and staff will be told to avoid public Wi-Fi networks as well as those in their team hotels, according to people familiar with the F.A.’s plans.The Football Association declined to comment on the letter, though FIFA confirmed its existence.“We can confirm that The F.A. has sent a letter to FIFA related to the Fancy Bears attack,” a FIFA spokesman said. “In its reply, FIFA has informed The F.A. in such context that FIFA remains committed to preventing security attacks in general, and that with respect to the Fancy Bears attack in particular it is presently investigating the incident to ascertain whether FIFA’s infrastructure was compromised.”In mocking messages revealing the 25 players’ names last month, the hackers also claimed there had been hundreds of positive doping tests in soccer in 2015 and 2016, including four in Britain linked to the use of the recreational drugs cocaine and ecstasy.WADA said its servers had not been compromised in the soccer case, suggesting the information had been acquired from FIFA’s computer systems.Coaches at the World Cup zealously guard their tactics and team selection plans for the monthlong event, often erecting fences around training fields to prevent such information from leaking out. Shortly before France’s opening game at the 2014 World Cup in Brazil, a drone hovered above the team’s practice session, leading the team’s coach to express concerns about possible spying. At the 2015 Rugby World Cup, photographers managed to capture details of Australia’s tactics after staff members failed to keep them covered during preparations for the championship match against New Zealand.Fancy Bears’ original leaks about international athletes emerged about four months after the The New York Times published the account of Russia’s longtime antidoping chief, who revealed that he had run a yearslong doping program involving top Russian athletes. The hacks also are seen as a response to sports federations who banned Russian athletes from the 2016 Rio Olympics.Russia has denied that its government is behind the attacks. But law enforcement authorities have determined they originated there, according to the World Anti-Doping Agency.“For the purposes of computer security in general, FIFA is itself relying on expert advice from third parties,” FIFA’s spokesman said. “It is for this reason that FIFA cannot and does not provide any computer security advice to third parties.”
Supported byBitsBy Sheera FrenkelEach week, technology reporters and columnists from The New York Times review the week’s news, offering analysis and maybe a joke or two about the most important developments in the tech industry. Hi everyone! I’m Sheera Frenkel, your friendly cybersecurity correspondent. To do my job, I have to spend a lot of time on Facebook and Twitter. And the more time I spend studying those sites, the less I find myself actually using them.Which brings me to the tech news for this past week — in which everyone seemed to be obsessed with who was, or wasn’t, allowed on Twitter.We started the week with a lingering question: Why was Twitter allowing Alex Jones, notorious far-right conspiracy theorist, to tweet?Mr. Jones and accounts associated with his media website Infowars were booted from Apple, Facebook, YouTube and other platforms last week for violating policies against hate speech. But Twitter did not ban Mr. Jones and Infowars, saying they had not violated its policies. Yet Twitter struggled to define its policies to my colleagues Cecilia Kang and Kate Conger when they visited the company last week.After journalists turned up examples of Mr. Jones’s tweets that contravened Twitter’s rules, the company said on Tuesday that it would suspend him from the platform for seven days after he tweeted a video calling for his supporters to get their “battle rifles” ready against the media and others. But the move was a temporary fix, and we still don’t know what exactly Twitter will and won’t allow on its service.That brings us to our next big Twitter question: Was Tesla chief executive Elon Musk on drugs when he tweeted on Aug. 7 that he was taking his company private?I’m asking thanks to rapper Azealia Banks, who took to Instagram this past week to recount how she had spent the weekend at Mr. Musk’s house waiting to record an album with his girlfriend, the electronic musician Grimes. Grimes, Ms. Banks said, never showed up. Then Ms. Banks dropped this bombshell: “Lol I waited around all weekend while Grimes coddled her boyfriend for being too stupid to know not to go on Twitter while on acid.”That immediately caught the attention of Tesla fans who were struggling to make sense of what was going on after Mr. Musk had announced on Twitter that he had secured funding to take the electric car maker off the public market at about $420 per share. The casual way in which Mr. Musk just tweeted the news out without regard to process raised a kerfuffle. And last week, the Securities and Exchange Commission served Tesla with a subpoena to learn more about the circumstances of the tweet.On Thursday, in an interview with The New York Times, Mr. Musk was asked if drugs were involved in his market-moving tweet. “Absolutely not,” he said.Andrew Ross Sorkin, our Dealbook columnist, wondered whether Twitter is the right forum for public company executives to be talking in the first place. And Kara Swisher, a contributing opinion columnist for The Times, asked on Thursday whether Mr. Musk was just plain crazy. She concluded that he wasn’t, but recommended that he delete the Twitter app from his phone.It isn’t bad advice. And neither is the advice our editors regularly give us when we are tempted to weigh in on a Twitter brawl: When in doubt, never tweet.In other tech news this past week:■ Google employees signed an internal letter protesting the company’s decision to build a censored version of its search engine for China. The letter, first reported by my colleagues Kate Conger and Daisuke Wakabayashi, was the latest example of how Google employees have challenged the company’s leadership. It also complicates Google’s attempt to return to China, which it withdrew from eight years ago to object to Beijing’s restrictions on free speech and hacking.■ File this under how the rich just keep getting richer. My colleague Erin Griffith wrote this week about how Silicon Valley start-ups are being showered with so much money — funding rounds of $100 million and up known as mega-rounds are booming — that they are struggling to figure out what to do with all of it.■ Cuba is one of the few remaining parts of the world where people still struggle to get online. But for nine hours on Tuesday, Cubans suddenly had the internet. During the duration of a test being run by the Cuban government, which partnered with a wireless internet company, Cubans could get online for free using their cellphones.■ The fake internet keeps getting more real. I wrote a story about a fake Facebook group that tricked Americans into showing up at protests. The group, Black Elevation, was one of dozens removed by Facebook for being part of an influence campaign trying to sway Americans ahead of the midterm elections.■ And lastly, this long read by Reuters was an incredible documentation of the ways in which Facebook’s failings in Myanmar led to people being killed. A lot has been written about how Facebook was used to spread hate speech in Myanmar, which led to brutal attacks against the country’s Rohingya minority. Reuters revealed that Facebook initially had only two Burmese speakers reviewing content from Myanmar and that it later turned to contractors. After Reuters’s report, Facebook announced it was hiring policy advisers on Myanmar and more Burmese-language moderators.Sheera Frenkel covers cybersecurity for The Times. She previously worked at Buzzfeed and spent years as a correspondent in the Middle East. Follow her on Twitter: @sheeraf.
Supported byBy Sui-Lee WeeBEIJING — As China moves to start enforcing a new cybersecurity law, foreign companies face a major problem: They know very little about it.The law — which was rubber-stamped by the country’s Parliament last year — is part of wide-ranging efforts by Beijing to manage the internet within China’s borders. Those efforts have been stepped up in the years since Edward J. Snowden, the whistle-blower and former American intelligence contractor, revealed that foreign technology firms could help governments spy.And while Chinese officials say the new rules will help guard against cyberattacks and prevent terrorism, critics, many of them from businesses, have their concerns. Companies worry that parts of the new law, which takes effect on Thursday, will make their operations in China less secure or more expensive. In some cases, they argue, it could keep them out entirely.The law will have a big impact on how business is done in China, said Michael Chang, an executive with the Finnish technology company Nokia and the vice president of the European Union Chamber of Commerce in China. But, he said, “There’s unfortunately a lot of confusion.”“Industry is not ready because the implementation rules are not clear,” Mr. Chang said, speaking at an event organized by the lobbying group to announce the results of its annual business confidence survey.“We still have a lot of unclarified territory that needs to be addressed as soon as possible.”The law would require that companies store their data within China, and would impose security checks on companies in sectors like finance and communications. Individual users, meanwhile, would have to register with their real names to use messaging services.But Mr. Chang said that officials had conveyed “less than half” of the specifics of how the law would be implemented.“A wide range of companies are doing data transfers — it’s the lifeblood of their business,” he said.Executives have complained that the wording of the law is ambiguous, fearing that it gives China’s ruling Communist Party substantial leeway to target them.One instance cited by Mats Harborn, president of the European Union Chamber of Commerce in China, in a round-table discussion with journalists, was that the government said it wanted to regulate “critical information infrastructure,” but had not defined what that meant.“The way it’s enforced and implemented today and the way it might be enforced and implemented in a year is a big question mark,” added Lance Noble, the chamber’s policy and communications manager. He warned that uncertainty surrounding the law could make foreign technology firms reluctant to bring their best innovations to China.In May, a coalition of business lobby groups representing European, American and Asian companies called on China to delay implementing the law, while the European Union Chamber of Commerce in China asked for additional time to allow companies to adhere because of the “substantial compliance obligations.”The Cyberspace Administration of China, the country’s internet regulator, has so far decided to delay implementation only of the regulations governing cross-border data flow, which will now take effect at the end of 2018, according to a revised draft of the rules that was seen by The New York Times.The regulator could not be reached despite multiple telephone calls.Paul Triolo of the political risk consultancy Eurasia Group noted the decision to delay that component of the law, saying in a report last week that “getting the cross-border data flow issue right is a prerequisite for Beijing’s efforts to promote economic globalization.” He wrote that China, for the time being, “is eager to avoid being seen as stifling digital trade.”The European Union and China plan to hold a summit meeting on Thursday in Brussels. Friction between them has mounted after the European Union imposed anti-dumping duties on Beijing, accusing it of flooding the European market with cheap steel.Many foreign companies are becoming increasingly skeptical of China’s promises of economic reform. Mr. Harborn, the lobbying group president, said he expected European officials to complain to Premier Li Keqiang of China about unequal market access in the country for European companies.The European Union Chamber of Commerce in China said that half the members who took part in its annual business confidence survey reported higher sales in China last year, thanks largely to a Chinese government stimulus package in the first half of the year. But 40 percent of respondents said they believed regulatory barriers would increase over the next five years.Follow Sui-Lee Wee on Twitter @suilee.Paul Mozur contributed reporting from Hong Kong. Carolyn Zhang contributed research from Shanghai.
Supported byletterA cybersecurity expert says multifactor authentication has had a positive effect.To the Editor:Re “Perils of Two-Step Authentication” (Op-Ed, Jan. 28):Josephine Wolff raises legitimate questions about the effectiveness of two-factor authentication and its use as a best practice. But she engages in the timeless tradition of using FUD — fear, uncertainty and doubt — to make her argument. Certainly, multifactor authentication is not the holy grail in identity authentication, but it has had a positive effect in securing data compared with the password-only approach, which has failed miserably. Until we are able to move security completely away from the end user, the end user has a responsibility to do whatever he or she can to manage risk. There will always be vulnerabilities in cybersecurity. Our objective should be to create resilient solutions that manage risk effectively. Best practices are used because they are informed approaches and solutions to common challenges. As we seek to create a culture of cybersecurity awareness around the globe, the best practice of multifactor authentication is not the ultimate goal, but is certainly an important step forward in educating the user on his or her responsibility in cyberspace. Kiersten E. TodtArlington, Va.The writer, a former executive director of the Presidential Commission on Enhancing National Cybersecurity, is managing director of the Cyber Readiness Institute, a nonprofit.
Supported byBy Jamie TarabaySYDNEY, Australia — Prime Minister Scott Morrison of Australia on Monday blamed a “sophisticated state actor” for the recent hacking of Parliament’s computer network, raising the specter of foreign interference in the country’s politics weeks before a national election.The government has not identified the country behind the attack, but Mr. Morrison said that along with Parliament, the networks of the major political parties were also affected.Mr. Morrison did not detail how the country’s security agencies had detected or dealt with the malicious activity, but he insisted that “there is no evidence of any electoral interference.”Cybersecurity experts, he said, briefed the country’s electoral commissions and met with state and territory officials. “They have also worked with global antivirus companies to ensure Australia’s friends and allies have the capacity to detect this malicious activity,” he said.Alastair MacGibbon, the national cybersecurity adviser, said on Monday that the government had not learned the identity of the hacker before it acted to block the activity.That defensive action, he said, “also does other unpleasant things, like remove some of the forensic evidence we’re interested in.”A government cybersecurity expert said one difficulty in identifying the perpetrators was that the hackers used tools that had not previously been seen.The nations most likely to carry out such an attack are China and Russia, security experts said, though Iran, Israel and North Korea also have sophisticated cyberwarfare capabilities.Australia has frequently warned of Chinese interference in its politics. Last year, the government barred the Chinese technology giant Huawei from building a 5G telecommunications network. In a speech in October, the head of the Australian Signals Directorate, an intelligence agency, hinted that the decision was about maintaining the integrity of data and critical infrastructure.“If it is China, then I think it’s important for the public to know that,” said Alex Joske, a researcher at the International Cyber Policy Center in Canberra. “Discussions about Huawei and influence will be issues during the election, and letting the public know that the Chinese Communist Party was in our system is important knowledge.”Mr. Joske said Russia, which interfered in the 2016 United States presidential election, had less interest in the Australian election.After the American experience in 2016, Western democracies should be increasingly aware of the vulnerability of their institutions, said Roderick Jones, founder and president of the cybersecurity firm Rubica in San Francisco.“It is gross negligence to have any significant breach of a system at this point, given everything that’s happened around the world, to have a penetration of a parliamentary system is just negligent,” he said.The Australian hack was above all designed to damage voter confidence, Mr. Jones said.“People are suddenly questioning electronic voting, some of those processes get brought into focus and people stop having trust in them. Every Western election has had interference, every one has been damaged in some way. Russia and China are more allied than ever to destroy confidence in the system,” he said.The prime minister’s acknowledgment of the hack represented a departure from past policy, in which the government has been reluctant to single-handedly call out cyberattacks by foreign governments. Last April, Australia, the United States and Britain accused Russia of state-sponsored hacking. In December, Australia followed the United States in condemning Chinese hackers for trying to steal intellectual property.The Australian government’s conundrum now is what it will do once it has uncovered the identity of the foreign state actor, said Fergus Hanson, head of the International Cyber Policy Center.“This sets up Australia for its first attribution without a coalition, it’s never had the confidence to say that for an attack that just affected Australia,” he said. “In a couple of months’ time, they’re going to have to come out and say who was behind it and then they’ll have to react to it.”How the Australian government responds will be closely watched, not least by the other members of the Five Eyes intelligence-sharing alliance: the United States, Britain, Canada and New Zealand.“Will Australia fall out of the intelligence-sharing community if it doesn’t act, or is shown to have less than robust cybersecurity around key infrastructure?” asked Mr. Jones of Rubica. “There’s not a lot Australia can do, but that’s the point of alliances.”Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article misstated the nationality of Roderick Jones, founder and president of the cybersecurity firm Rubica. He is British, not American.Want more Australia coverage and discussion? Sign up for the weekly Australia Letter, start your day with your local Morning Briefing and join us in our Facebook group.
Supported by“Even the smallest country, on a very low budget, can have an offensive capability.”ROBERT JOHNSTON, founder of the cybersecurity firm Adlumin and a key investigator on Russia’s 2016 hacking of the Democratic National Committee, on the proliferation of privatized spies for digital warfare.
FeatureAs the midterms approach, America’s electronic voting systems are more vulnerable than ever. Why isn’t anyone trying to fix them?CreditCreditPhoto illustration by Javier Jaén. Source photograph: Getty ImagesSupported byBy Kim ZetterIt was mid-July 2016 when Neil Jenkins learned that someone had hacked the Illinois Board of Elections. Jenkins was a director in the Office of Cybersecurity and Communications at the Department of Homeland Security, the domestic agency with a congressional mandate to protect “critical infrastructure.” Although election systems were not yet formally designated as such — that wouldn’t happen until January 2017 — it was increasingly clear that the presidential election was becoming a national-security issue. Just a month before, Americans had been confronted with the blockbuster revelation that Russian government actors had hacked the Democratic National Committee’s servers and stolen private email and opposition research against Donald Trump, the Republican presidential candidate.And now, it emerged, someone was trying to infiltrate the election system itself. The Illinois intruders had quietly breached the network in June and spent weeks conducting reconnaissance. After alighting on the state’s voter-registration database, they downloaded information on hundreds of thousands of voters. Then something went wrong, and the attackers crashed a server, alerting officials to their presence.It soon became clear that this would not be the last attack. In early August, Jenkins learned of another breach, this one on an Arizona state website, and it appeared to come from one of the same I.P. addresses that had been used to attack Illinois. This time, the intruders installed malware, as if setting the stage for further assault. Then reports from other states began to pour in, saying that the same I.P. addresses appeared to be probing their voter-registration networks. Against that backdrop, the D.N.C. hack was looking less like an isolated incident.“We started to ask: Are these things related?” Jenkins recalled. “Are they the same actors? Is this some kind of concerted effort?” He and his team realized that if Russian hackers were trying to disrupt the coming elections, D.H.S. needed to quickly get in touch with the state and local officials who ran them. But whom do you call when there are more than 10,000 election jurisdictions in the United States?Jenkins at first assumed that each state had a chief information officer who oversaw election security — but this turned out to be wrong. A staff member suggested that the Federal Election Commission must be the governing body over elections — but the F.E.C., they quickly realized, was focused on campaign finance, not election systems. Then a colleague did a Google search on election administration and came across the U.S. Election Assistance Commission, the federal body created by Congress in 2002 to serve as a federal liaison with state election officials. “I’m embarrassed to admit I didn’t know that the E.A.C. existed,” Jenkins said. “I would say that I’m not the only person working in the federal government that this was true for. This topic is not something that was really on anybody’s big radar.”Jenkins planned a call for mid-August for his boss, Secretary of Homeland Security Jeh Johnson, to discuss the problem with members of the E.A.C. and the National Association of Secretaries of State. But Jenkins’s knowledge of election hacking was limited to a conference panel he was on six months earlier about the security of internet voting. Although most American voters cast ballots in person or by mail, 31 states and the District of Columbia offer some form of internet voting to military personnel and citizens living overseas. Jenkins, concerned that Russian hackers might interfere with those ballots, intended to offer election officials a simple plan: “We were going to tell them that internet voting wasn’t safe, and it was a risk factor and you need to not do it.”But when Jenkins met E.A.C. officials and the executive director of the National Association of Secretaries of State for a brief discussion before the scheduled call, what was supposed to be a half-hour meeting bled into four hours, as he and his staff got a crash course in election administration. Internet voting, they learned, was the least of their concerns; the real problems were the machines used to cast and tally votes and the voter-registration databases the Russians had already shown interest in hacking. The entire system — a Rube Goldberg mix of poorly designed machinery, from websites and databases that registered and tracked voters, to electronic poll books that verified their eligibility, to the various black-box systems that recorded, tallied and reported results — was vulnerable.In August 2016, though, there was no time to address systemic problems. Many states would begin early voting in five to six weeks, and the machines themselves had to be programmed and locked down well in advance of Election Day. The Department of Homeland Security had to settle for doing Band-Aid security before the election, and even then only with states that requested help — mostly this involved remote-scanning internet-facing servers for known software vulnerabilities that could be patched, and providing a list of security best practices, like making sure vote-tabulation machines were not connected to the internet. Jenkins said the problems the agency couldn’t address were “troubling” but beyond its control. “You could spend years working on connectivity between voting machines and ballot-creating devices and try to get those things fixed,” he said. “But when you’re trying to do something quickly with a group of people who are resource-constrained as severely as election officials are, you kind of have to focus where you can focus.”Two years later, as the 2018 elections approach, the American intelligence community is issuing increasingly dire warnings about potential interference from Russia and other countries, but the voting infrastructure remains largely unchanged. D.H.S. has now conducted remote-scanning and on-site assessments of state and county election systems, but these are still largely Band-Aid measures applied to internet-facing servers. They don’t address core vulnerabilities in voting machines or the systems used to program them. And they ignore the fact that many voting machines that elections officials insist are disconnected from the internet — and therefore beyond the reach of hackers — are in fact accessible by way of the modems they use to transmit vote totals on election night. Add to this the fact that states don’t conduct robust postelection audits — a manual comparison of paper ballots to digital tallies is the best method we have to detect when something has gone wrong in an election — and there’s a good chance we simply won’t know if someone has altered the digital votes in the next election.How did our election system get so vulnerable, and why haven’t officials tried harder to fix it? The answer, ultimately, comes down to politics and money: The voting machines are made by well-connected private companies that wield immense control over their proprietary software, often fighting vigorously in court to prevent anyone from examining it when things go awry. In Ohio in 2004, for example, where John Kerry lost the presidential race following numerous election irregularities, Kerry’s team was denied access to the voting-machine software. “We were told by the court that you were not able to get that algorithm to check it, because it was proprietary information,” Kerry recalled in a recent interview on WNYC’s “Brian Lehrer Show.” He was understandably rueful, arguing how wrong it was that elections are held under “the purview of privately owned machines, where the public doesn’t have the right to know whether the algorithm has been checked or whether they’re hackable or not. And we now know they are hackable.”The ballot box is the foundation of any democracy. It’s not too grand to say that if there’s a failure in the ballot box, then democracy fails. If the people don’t have confidence in the outcome of an election, then it becomes difficult for them to accept the policies and actions that pour forth from it. And in the United States, it’s safe to say, though few may utter it publicly, that the ballot box has failed many times and is poised to fail again.There are roughly 350,000 voting machines in use in the country today, all of which fall into one of two categories: optical-scan machines or direct-recording electronic machines. Each of them suffers from significant security problems.With optical-scan machines, voters fill out paper ballots and feed them into a scanner, which stores a digital image of the ballot and records the votes on a removable memory card. The paper ballot, in theory, provides an audit trail that can be used to verify digital tallies. But not all states perform audits, and many that do simply run the paper ballots through a scanner a second time. Fewer than half the states do manual audits, and they typically examine ballots from randomly chosen precincts in a county, instead of a percentage of ballots from all precincts. If the randomly chosen precincts aren’t ones where hacking occurred or where machines failed to accurately record votes, an audit won’t reveal anything — nor will it always catch problems with early-voting, overseas or absentee ballots, all of which are often scanned in county election offices, not in precincts.Direct-recording electronic machines, or D.R.E.s, present even more auditing problems. Voters use touch screens or other input devices to make selections on digital-only ballots, and votes are stored electronically. Many D.R.E.s have printers that produce what’s known as a voter-verifiable paper audit trail — a scroll of paper, behind a window, that voters can review before casting their ballots. But the paper trail doesn’t provide the same integrity as full-size ballots and optical-scan machines, because a hacker could conceivably rig the machine to print a voter’s selections correctly on the paper while recording something else on the memory card. About 80 percent of voters today cast ballots either on D.R.E.s that produce a paper trail or on scanned paper ballots. But five states still use paperless D.R.E.s exclusively, and an additional 10 states use paperless D.R.E.s in some jurisdictions.The voting-machine industry — an estimated $300-million-a-year business — has long been as troubling as the machines it makes, known for its secrecy, close political ties (overwhelmingly to the Republican Party) and a revolving door between vendors and election offices. More than a dozen companies currently sell voting equipment, but a majority of machines used today come from just four — Diebold Election Systems, Election Systems &amp; Software (ES&amp;S), Hart InterCivic and Sequoia Voting Systems. Diebold (later renamed Premier) and Sequoia are now out of business. Diebold’s machines and customer contracts were sold to ES&amp;S and a Canadian company called Dominion, and Dominion also acquired Sequoia. This means that more than 80 percent of the machines in use today are under the purview of three companies — Dominion, ES&amp;S and Hart InterCivic.Many of the products they make have documented vulnerabilities and can be subverted in multiple ways. Hackers can access voting machines via the cellular modems used to transmit unofficial results at the end of an election, or subvert back-end election-management systems — used to program the voting machines and tally votes — and spread malicious code to voting machines through them. Attackers could design their code to bypass pre-election testing and kick in only at the end of an election or under specific conditions — say, when a certain candidate appears to be losing — and erase itself afterward to avoid detection. And they could make it produce election results with wide margins to avoid triggering automatic manual recounts in states that require them when results are close.Hackers could also target voting-machine vendors and use this trusted channel to distribute their code. Last year a security researcher stumbled across an unsecured ES&amp;S server that left passwords exposed for its employee accounts. Although the passwords were encrypted, a nation-state with sufficient resources would most likely be able to crack them, the researcher noted. Since ES&amp;S creates ballot-definition files before each election for some customers — the critical programming files that tell machines how to apportion votes based on a voter’s screen touch or marks on a paper ballot — a malicious actor able to get into ES&amp;S’s network could conceivably corrupt these files so machines misinterpret a vote for Donald Trump, say, as one for his opponent, or vice versa.Did anything like that happen in 2016? The Department of Homeland Security, the intelligence community and election officials have all insisted that there is no evidence that Russian hackers altered votes in 2016. But the truth is that no one has really looked for evidence. Intelligence assessments are based on signals intelligence — spying on Russian communications and computers for chatter or activity indicating that they altered votes — not on a forensic examination of voting machines and election networks. “We should always be careful to point out that there hasn’t been any evidence that votes were changed in any election in this way, and that’s a true fact,” said Matt Blaze, a computer-science professor at the University of Pennsylvania and a voting-machine-security expert. “It’s just less comforting than it might sound at first glance, because we haven’t looked very hard.” Even if experts were to look, it’s not clear what they would find, he added. “It’s possible to do a pretty good job of erasing all the forensic evidence.”And targeting voting machines is just one way to subvert elections. A hacker (or inside operator) could target voters themselves by deleting their names from the voter roll and electronic poll book — the device used at polling places to verify a voter’s eligibility. Or change their precinct assignments to send them to the wrong location, creating chaos and frustration that causes them to leave without voting. Bad actors could also undermine election results by altering tallies as they are transmitted to county offices on election night or posted to public websites. Although these are unofficial results, any discrepancy between these and official tallies compiled days after an election would sow distrust in the outcome, particularly if the winner of a race changes.The stakes are high when it comes to election security, and the concerns about Russian hackers are warranted. But the focus on Russia, or any would-be election manipulators, ignores the underlying issue — the myriad vulnerabilities that riddle the system and the ill-considered decisions that got us here. The mad history of election security in the United States is a history of how misguided politicians and naïve election officials allowed an unregulated industry to seize control of America’s democratic infrastructure.[Read about Amendment 4, the ballot that could enfranchise more people at once than any single initiative since women’s suffrage, but could also change the Florida electorate.] The ballot box is in the distressed state it is in today because of an overreaction — or rather a wrong reaction — to a previous systemic electoral breakdown: the presidential-election fiasco in Florida in 2000. Everyone remembers the dangling chads that led to a landmark Supreme Court decision and a nation divided over who won. But another election mishap occurred that night that got less attention, despite the fact that it played a significant role in pushing the presidential race into the hands of the justices. This one involved a memory card in Volusia County.Deborah Tannenbaum had a front-row seat for what occurred that night. A Democratic Party field director in Florida, she refreshed her web browser frequently as returns came in from around the county. At 10 p.m., Al Gore was ahead in Volusia, with 83,000 votes to George W. Bush’s 62,000. Things were going well for Gore across the state, and exit polls projected a six-point lead for him. But then something changed. “I had stepped out, and one of the assistants came, and he’s just like, ‘I need you to come here and verify the numbers,’ ” Tannenbaum recalled. When she looked at the county’s website, Gore’s total had dropped 16,000 votes. Tannenbaum called the county election office, alarmed. “I don’t know what’s going on down there, but you can’t take away votes!” she said.The mysterious drop would later be traced to Precinct 216, a community center in DeLand, where Gore’s total was showing negative 16,022 votes. It wasn’t the only mathematical absurdity in the tally. A Socialist Workers Party candidate named James Harris had 9,888 votes. But the DeLand precinct had only 585 registered voters, and only 219 of them cast ballots at the center that day.Unfortunately for Gore, reporters were focused on overall state returns and didn’t notice the funny numbers. At 7:52 p.m., Voter News Service — a consortium of media outlets reporting election results — projected Gore the Florida winner based on exit polls. But when the Volusia County numbers changed at 10 p.m., and Brevard County subsequently posted results inadvertently missing 4,000 votes for Gore, Bush shot into the lead; news outlets retracted their call for Gore and called the state for Bush. Gore was on his way to make a concession speech at 3 a.m. when he learned the numbers were wrong.Volusia officials blamed the mishap on a faulty memory card. The county used optical-scan machines made by Global Election Systems (a Canadian company later acquired by Diebold and renamed Diebold Election Systems), which the county had used since 1996. When the election ended, poll workers were supposed to transmit results to the county election office via modem; but the transmission failed, so a worker drove the memory card in, where officials inserted it directly into the election-management system to tally results. Logs for that computer, however, showed two memory cards for Precinct 216 inserted, an hour apart. The vote totals went haywire after the second card was loaded.Beyond the mystery of the two cards, there was another problem with this explanation. A faulty memory card should produce an onscreen error message or cause a computer to lock up, not alter votes in one race while leaving others untouched. And what kind of faulty card deleted votes only for Gore, while adding votes to other candidates?Ultimately, the phantom card was forgotten in the battle that ensued over dangling chads in other counties. Gore’s team requested manual recounts in four counties, including Volusia, but a Supreme Court ruling on Dec. 12 halted them, though not before Volusia completed its recount. The manual tally of optical-scan ballots in Precinct 216 gave Gore 193 votes, Bush 22 and Harris 0. Bush won Florida, and by extension the presidency, by just 537 votes.To this day, questions about the Volusia card remain unanswered. Internal emails from Global Election Systems later leaked to Bev Harris, an election-integrity activist, show that the manufacturer itself remained unsure about what happened. When a Volusia County elections worker named Lana Hires requested an explanation from Global, the response was vague. Talbot Iredale, a Global developer, responded that a corrupt memory card remained “the most likely explanation for the problem but since I know nothing about the ‘second’ memory card I have no ability to confirm the probability of this.” He then suggested a more ominous explanation. “There is always the possibility that the ‘second memory card’ or ‘second upload’ came from an unauthorized source.” To which a Global colleague replied: “Heh. Second shooter theory. All we need now is a grassy knoll.”The memory card in Volusia vividly demonstrated the kind of problems that could occur if states expanded their use of electronic voting machines without proper safeguards. But even as security experts showed how malicious insiders and outsiders could subvert the machines, the warnings went ignored.A month after the Supreme Court decision, Representative Steny Hoyer, a Maryland Democrat, met with Representative Bob Ney, an Ohio Republican and his colleague on the House Administration Committee, to talk about election reform. Hoyer wanted to make sure that what happened with Florida’s punch cards didn’t happen again. So, unmindful of the lessons of Volusia County, they decided to draft a bill that would push states to get rid of punch-card systems as well as lever voting machines, a century-old mechanical technology still being used in some states, and replace them with new electronic voting systems. But beyond setting parameters to protect civil rights and prevent disenfranchisement, the federal government couldn’t tell states how to run elections.So Hoyer and Ney devised a workaround: money. Their bill, the Help America Vote Act, or HAVA, offered states $3.9 billion to help administer federal elections and buy new voting equipment. But the money came with a few conditions: States couldn’t spend it on punch-card or lever machines, and if they wanted to use HAVA funds to replace these systems, they had to do so in time for the 2004 presidential elections (or by 2006 if they sought an extension). They also had to offer at least one accessible voting machine at each polling place so that disabled voters could cast ballots without assistance. And they had to consolidate county voter-registration files into a single statewide database to prevent voters from registering in multiple counties. HAVA also created a new agency — the U.S. Election Assistance Commission — to administer the funds to states and to serve as a clearinghouse for election best practices.Computers had been used in elections ever since the 1960s, when punch cards and computerized card readers and tabulators were introduced. And experts had been warning for just as long about the danger of placing too much trust in them. A 1969 front-page article in The Los Angeles Times described a “war games” exercise to determine if Los Angeles County’s new computerized punch-card readers and tabulators could be rigged without detection. Three computer scientists on the offensive team faced off against three computer scientists on defense. “In each test, the offensive team won,” the paper reported; the team’s “highly sophisticated techniques” were neither detected nor prevented. The importance of paper ballots to back up and verify digital vote tallies was also underscored by numerous election mishaps over the years. In Rock Island County, Ill., in 1984, for every one vote cast for a particular candidate, a computer tabulator gave him two; it also failed to count “no” votes on a referendum. In Moline, Ill., in 1985, a punch-card reader elected the wrong candidate for City Council by failing to properly count some votes; a recount flipped the race.Hoyer insists that the subject of security and paper trails didn’t come up when lawmakers were developing HAVA. But Rebecca Mercuri disputes this. A computer scientist at Bryn Mawr at the time, she told the House science committee — in a hearing that was meant to inform the lawmakers writing HAVA — that “any programmer can write code that displays one thing on the screen, records something else and prints out something else as an entirely different result. I have freshmen, by the way, who can do this. There is no known way to ensure that this is not happening inside of a voting system.”The experts also recognized even then that voting machines wouldn’t be secure if there weren’t adequate standards for testing and certifying them. Douglas W. Jones, a computer-science professor at the University of Iowa and the chairman of a board that tested and approved machines used in his state, testified to the science committee that the voting machines available to replace punch-card and lever machines weren’t secure, largely because the standards didn’t require them to be. The standards were created in the 1980s, when security was a nascent field and touch-screen D.R.E.s didn’t exist. He advised lawmakers against issuing large-scale funding for new machines until better standards and machines were available.But few in Congress took the critics seriously. Although lawmakers did include a provision in HAVA mandating the creation of new standards — with the aim that machines bought with HAVA funds would meet them — the purchasing deadlines they included in the bill forced states to buy their machines before the new standards could be completed in 2005 (they took effect in 2007). In October 2002, the bill passed with broad bipartisan support, and the clock began ticking down to the November 2004 deadline to replace punch-card machines.And with that, the gold rush was on, as a small group of vendors with little security expertise began lining up to win billions of dollars of federal money. Most of that money ended up going to buy D.R.E.s. In 2000, just 9 percent of American voting precincts were using D.R.E.s. After HAVA passed, the proportion ballooned to 67 percent. The basic technology was not new; the first direct-recording electronic voting machines went on sale in 1974, and touch-screen versions were introduced in the mid-90s. But before HAVA, election officials who wanted electronic machines generally chose optical-scan systems. Each machine was more expensive, but you needed fewer per polling place, because voters could fill out the ballots in simple booths and then quickly scan them.The new D.R.E. machines did offer real advantages. With direct recording, counties no longer had to print hundreds of thousands of paper ballots or store them for 22 months after a federal election, as federal law required. And the machines could be adapted to voter needs, by displaying digital ballots in multiple languages and font sizes. They also satisfied the accessibility requirement in HAVA, offering Braille keyboards, audio instruction and other aids for physically impaired voters.Under HAVA, states had to purchase only one accessible machine per precinct and could provide optical-scan systems for other voters. But some counties bought D.R.E.s exclusively, swayed in part by the National Federation of the Blind, which insisted that HAVA, in calling for “uniform and nondiscriminatory election technology,” required states to provide identical equipment for all voters. This interpretation benefited vendors, of course, who were more than happy to sell counties their most expensive systems.In November 2002, just days after Bush signed HAVA into law, Georgia underwent the nation’s first major test of D.R.E.s. The state had signed a $54 million contract with Diebold to use its paperless D.R.E.s exclusively statewide. As the November midterm elections approached, the company scrambled to get the machines in place for one of the closest races for governor that Georgia had seen — between Gov. Roy Barnes, a Democrat, and his Republican challenger, Sonny Perdue. Perdue won with just 51 percent of votes in a major upset. It was the first time in more than 130 years that a Republican became governor of Georgia. This wasn’t the only upset. Senator Max Cleland, a popular Democrat, went into Election Day leading his Republican opponent, Saxby Chambliss, by three points; he lost by seven.What happened next highlighted everything that was wrong with electronic voting machines and their vendors. Rob Behler, a contractor who worked in the Georgia warehouse where Diebold prepared its D.R.E.s for the election, came forward to reveal that many of the machines experienced frequent crashes or other persistent malfunctions. Diebold had given workers at least three software patches to fix the problems, he said, but the patches were not examined by the independent lab responsible for testing voting machines or by Georgia officials. Brit Williams, a retired academic overseeing the rollout for the state, denied to me at the time that Diebold installed any uncertified patches, but acknowledged that it did install one patch that a test lab took a “quick look” at.The Georgia patches underscored a disturbing reality — no one really knew what companies were programming into their black boxes, in part because the lab testing reports were confidential. Election activists and computer-security experts did get occasional glances inside the boxes, though, and what they saw wasn’t reassuring. Months after the Georgia election, Bev Harris, the election-integrity activist, discovered the FTP server that Diebold used to distribute software patches for its machines in Georgia. The server had been left unsecured, and Harris found about 40,000 files on it, including source code for Diebold’s D.R.E.s. She gave the code to computer scientists at Johns Hopkins University, who found several security problems with it, including an encryption key hard-coded in the software, a violation of basic security practices. The key was used to encrypt vote records and audit logs — the most critical data on a voting system — and was the same key for every Diebold system. Anyone who accessed the source code on Diebold’s unsecured server could find the key in the code.Over the next several years, reports commissioned by officials in California, Maryland and Ohio found more problems with Diebold machines and similar issues with machines from other manufacturers. Problems with voting machines in elections were also making headlines. In 2002 in North Carolina, for example, D.R.E.s made by ES&amp;S failed to record 436 entire ballots during early voting in Wake County, a failure the company attributed to a software bug. Two years later, in Jacksonville, N.C., a D.R.E. made by UniLect lost more than 4,500 ballots when its memory became full and stopped recording; it continued to let voters cast ballots, however, instead of locking up. The incidents that made headlines were disturbing enough, but the real concerns were the ones that weren’t being caught.The problems with voting machines did not go entirely unnoticed on Capitol Hill. In May 2003, Representative Rush Holt, a New Jersey Democrat, introduced an amendment to HAVA that would require all voting machines to produce a voter-verifiable paper trail and to mandate random manual audits. It was an opportunity for lawmakers like Hoyer, who missed the security issues with D.R.E.s the first time, to make up for the oversight. But still they resisted. Hoyer told me, “I didn’t think Rush was correct” about paper trails. Hoyer and other lawmakers believed that the new voting systems were “in fact reliable and secure and user-friendly. Now I think in retrospect we were obviously wrong, because our premise was the machines were not subject to being hacked. And now we know.”The troublesome 2004 presidential election in Ohio, in which Kerry was denied access to the voting software, provided a strong case for why paper and audits were necessary. A lot of Ohio counties still used punch cards, but some had adopted D.R.E.s and optical-scan systems. For one precinct of Franklin County, which used D.R.E.s made by a company called Danaher Control, the election-management system tallied 4,258 votes for Bush, though only 638 voters cast ballots. When officials pulled votes stored in the D.R.E., Bush’s total was 365. In Mahoning County, voters using 25 D.R.E.s made by ES&amp;S found that when they touched the screens to vote for John Kerry, the machines interpreted it as a vote for Bush, not an uncommon problem when touch screens are poorly calibrated. “Undervoting” — when a ballot shows no vote in a particular race — was also exceptionally high in the state. Democratic precincts across Ohio had 75 percent more undervotes than predominantly Republican ones. In two precincts in Montgomery County that used punch-card machines, the computer tabulators indicated that 6,000 ballots had no vote for president — an undervote rate of 25 percent, while 2 percent is normal. A congressional inquiry found “numerous serious election irregularities” in Ohio but ultimately couldn’t conclude whether fraud had occurred.The incidents in Ohio demonstrated that American elections still had integrity problems, but there was little constituency for change. In 2005, Holt introduced a variation of his 2003 reform bill, and once again it quickly died, in part because voting-machine vendors launched a formidable lobbying effort to quash the requirement of paper trails. Some state election officials joined the effort, arguing that adding printers to D.R.E.s would create problems for elderly poll workers if the printers jammed or ran out of paper. The American Association of People With Disabilities was also remarkably effective in lobbying against paper trails, arguing that they discriminated against blind voters, even though the same audio that assisted blind voters to mark their digital ballot could read the paper trail to them. The association persuaded the League of Women Voters and the American Civil Liberties Union, two politically powerful groups, to oppose paper trails as well.A second major undervote incident with D.R.E.s in 2006 also failed to move Congress. In Sarasota, Fla., more than 18,000 ballots cast on D.R.E.s made by ES&amp;S showed no vote in the race for the 13th Congressional District. Kathy Dent, the supervisor of elections, insisted that voters either didn’t see that particular contest or intended to leave it blank. But documents I obtained through a public-records request showed that poll workers in 19 precincts called her office on Election Day and during the primary months before it to pass along voter complaints about the machines. Many reported that when they tried to vote for Christine Jennings, a Democrat, the screen failed to register their touch. Jennings lost by fewer than 400 votes. The incident led Florida — the state whose punch-card fiasco prompted the nationwide switch to paperless D.R.E.s — to mandate the use of voter-marked paper ballots. But when Holt reintroduced his bill in Congress in 2007 and 2009 to do the same, he still couldn’t get any interest.Despite this proliferation of voting-machine problems, the industry was expanding its reach and control, even as it was concentrating power into fewer hands. By 2010, ES&amp;S was so big — it had bought Diebold’s election division and controlled more than 70 percent of the market — that the Justice Department filed an antitrust suit and required it to sell off some of its assets. Many election officials, baffled by the new technology and unable to hire dedicated I.T. staff, purchased complete suites of election services from vendors, services that in some cases included programming ballot-definition files for voting machines and assisting with tabulation. It became common to see voting-machine employees or their local contractors in election offices before, during and after elections, and in some cases even working in election offices full time. ES&amp;S, for instance, even installed remote-access software and modems on election-management systems to gain remote access to them from its Nebraska headquarters to troubleshoot when things went wrong. And when things did go wrong with machines, it was often the vendor who investigated and supplied the explanation that was fed to the news media and the public.The companies also expanded their reach into other parts of the elections process. Some states built their HAVA-mandated voter-registration databases in-house, but some outsourced this to Diebold and ES&amp;S, the companies that made their voting machines, as well as to other firms. And once these centralized databases were in place, the vendors saw an opportunity for another revenue stream: They persuaded states to replace paper poll books — the lists poll workers use to verify that voters are registered — with electronic poll books that could sync with the statewide databases. The software on these devices didn’t have to undergo testing and certification the way voting machines do, and there were inevitable problems — in 2006 in Denver, Sequoia electronic poll books crashed extensively, creating long lines for an estimated 20,000 people who left without voting. In 2008 in Georgia, Diebold electronic poll books caused delays lasting more than two hours.Over the years, as election officials became more comfortable with their voting equipment, many jurisdictions who gave control to vendors gradually took it back, but there are still districts where vendors and contractors are involved in every phase of elections, from writing the software that registers voters and determines their eligibility to cast ballots, to programming machines and counting the votes. And it’s not clear to what degree, if any, they’re subject to oversight.Sixteen years ago, lawmakers led Americans to believe that they had solved the problems of Florida in 2000. But the 2016 election made it clear that the problems simply shifted from one technology to another. Once again, lawmakers are proposing fixes that they say will help address the current state of elections, and once again, those proposals fall short.Legislators have introduced several bills that propose to bolster security, in part by mandating paper trails and manual audits. But only one of them, the Secure Elections Act, has advanced, and in the process it has been significantly watered down. In August, Republican lawmakers weakened the bill by allowing officials performing audits to rely on the digital images of paper ballots stored in optical-scan machines — images that can be manipulated by hackers and others, security experts say.This year, Congress appropriated $380 million to states to pay for security upgrades and replace some of the machines that were bought with HAVA funds more than a decade ago, in the belief that this will make elections more secure. But the new machines have the same problems as the ones they will replace — all machines on the market today were tested and certified to the standards HAVA put into effect in 2007, and technology has evolved considerably in the last decade. The Election Assistance Commission and its technical-guidelines committee are completing new standards, but it will be at least another two years before any machines will be tested and certified to them.Even those standards will almost certainly be inadequate. They will, for instance, most likely continue to exempt commercial off-the-shelf components from testing. (If a vendor uses the Windows operating system or a commercial modem in its machines and asserts that it hasn’t altered them, the labs don’t look at those components.) And they probably won’t require labs to do “penetration testing” to see if they can hack voting systems — one of the most effective ways to measure the security of a system. “These companies have seized a central role in our democracy,” said Senator Ron Wyden, an Oregon Democrat who is one of a small group of lawmakers who have shown a willingness to demand more transparency from the vendors. “But rather than recognizing that cybersecurity needs to be their top priority, they treat it as a public-relations problem that can be dismissed with spin.”The valuable work of testing system security has been taken up voluntarily by security researchers like the Finnish computer programmer Harri Hursti, J. Alex Halderman of the University of Michigan and the participants at the recent Def Con Voting Machine Hacking Village. But the researchers face hostility and sometimes even legal threats from vendors, who want to prevent them from finding and exposing problems with the machines. Before the Def Con event this year, which received unprecedented support and interest from election officials, ES&amp;S and other vendors sent comments to the United States Copyright Office expressing opposition to a proposed exemption to the Digital Millennium Copyright Act that would expand the rights of researchers to reverse-engineer election software.Even now, when the country is desperate to prevent Russian hackers from interfering with future elections, the company is more focused on asserting proprietary control over its systems than on working with communities of researchers who want to secure them. In addition to the comments it sent the Copyright Office, it also sent a vaguely threatening letter to its own customers, warning them against helping researchers by providing them with voting-machine software to examine. In that letter, ES&amp;S reminded election officials of an essential fact: The American people don’t own the software that now sits at the heart of their democracy; they just lease it.An earlier version of this article referred imprecisely to an area in Ohio where 638 voters cast ballots in the presidential election of 2004. It was in one precinct in Franklin County, not the county as a whole.Kim Zetter has covered cybersecurity for more than a decade. She is the author of “Countdown to Zero Day: Stuxnet and the Launch of the World’s First Digital Weapon.”
Supported byThe network must be secure enough for the innovations it promises.By Tom WheelerMr. Wheeler is a former chairman of the Federal Communications Commission.The Trump administration’s so-called “race” with China to build new fifth-generation (5G) wireless networks is speeding toward a network vulnerable to Chinese (and other) cyberattacks. So far, the Trump administration has focused on blocking Chinese companies from being a part of the network, but these efforts are far from sufficient. We cannot allow the hype about 5G to overshadow the absolute necessity that it be secure.Our current wireless networks are fourth-generation, or 4G. It was 4G that gave us the smartphone. Reaching the next level of mobile services, however, requires increased speed on the network. Fifth-generation networks are designed to be 10 to 100 times faster than today’s typical wireless connection with much lower latency (response time). These speeds will open up all kinds of new functional possibilities. Those new functions, in turn, will attract cyberintrusions just like honey attracts a bear.Some envision 5G as a kind of “wireless fiber” for the delivery of television and internet much like a cable system does today. Iranians hacking the delivery of “Game of Thrones” isn’t good, but the real transformational promise of 5G goes far beyond wireless cable and its security is much more critical.The most exciting part of the 5G future is how its speed will change the very nature of the internet. Thus far, the internet has been all about transporting data from point A to point B. Today’s internet-connected car may be able to get driving directions sent to it, but it is essentially the same as getting email: the one-way transportation of pre-existing information. The autonomous car is something vastly different, in which the 5G network allows computers to orchestrate a flood of information from multitudes of input sensors for real time, on-the-fly decision-making. It is estimated that the data output of a single autonomous vehicle in one day will be equal to today’s daily data output of three thousand people.Leadership in 5G technology is not just about building a network, but also about whether that network will be secure enough for the innovations it promises. And the 5G “race” is more complex and dangerous than industry and the Trump administration portray. When 5G enables autonomous vehicles, do we want those cars and trucks crashing into each other because the Russians hacked the network? If 5G will be the backbone of breakthroughs such as remote surgery, should that network be vulnerable to the North Koreans breaking into a surgical procedure? Innovators, investors and users need confidence in the network’s cybersecurity if its much-heralded promise is to be realized.“It is imperative that America be first in fifth-generation (5G) wireless technologies,” President Trump wrote in an October Presidential Memorandum of instructions to federal agencies. While the administration, especially the Trump Federal Communications Commission (F.C.C.), makes much of how the 5G “race” with China is a matter of national security, not enough effort is being put into the security of the network itself. Nowhere in the president’s directive, for instance, was there a word about protecting the cybersecurity of the new network.As the President’s National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee told him in November, “the cybersecurity threat now poses an existential threat to the future of the Nation.” Last January, the brightest technical minds in the intelligence community, working with the White House National Security Council (N.S.C.), warned of the 5G cybersecurity threat. When the proposed solutions included security through a federally-owned network backbone, the wireless industry screamed in protest. The chairman of the Trump F.C.C. quickly echoed the industry line that “the market, not government, is best positioned to drive innovation and leadership.” Government ownership may not be practicable, but the concerns in the N.S.C. report have been dismissed too readily.Worse than ignoring the warnings, the Trump administration has repealed existing protections. Shortly after taking office, the Trump F.C.C. removed a requirement imposed by the Obama F.C.C. that the 5G technical standard must be designed from the outset to withstand cyberattacks. For the first time in history, cybersecurity was being required as a forethought in the design of a new network standard — until the Trump F.C.C. repealed it. The Trump F.C.C. also canceled a formal inquiry seeking input from the country’s best technical minds about 5G security, retracted an Obama-era F.C.C. white paper about reducing cyberthreats, and questioned whether the agency had any responsibility for the cybersecurity of the networks they are entrusted with overseeing.The simple fact is that our wireless networks are not as secure as they could be because they weren’t designed to withstand the kinds of cyberattacks that are now common. This isn’t the fault of the companies that built the networks, but a reflection that when the standards for the current fourth-generation (4G) technology were set years ago, cyberattacks were not a front-and-center concern.The Trump administration has been told that cybersecurity is an “existential risk.” The new Congress should use its oversight power to explore just why the administration has failed to protect against that risk, especially when it comes to the next generation of networks.Tom Wheeler, the chairman of the Federal Communications Commission from 2013 to 2017, is a visiting fellow at the Brookings Institution and a fellow at the Harvard Kennedy School. His new book, “From Gutenberg to Google: The History of Our Future,” will be published in February.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.
Supported byBy Marc SantoraPRAGUE — In an attempt to push back against attempts to limit its reach in Europe, the Chinese technology giant Huawei threatened legal action against the Czech Republic if its cybersecurity agency did not rescind its warning about the risk the company poses to the nation’s critical infrastructure.As nations across Europe take the first steps to reconfigure the systems that control the internet, Huawei’s threat was the latest salvo in the escalating war over who will control the hardware that will underpin the new 5G, or fifth-generation, networks.For more than a year, the United States has been engaged in a global campaign aimed at limiting the reach of Chinese telecommunication firms, contending that they pose a threat to security.While American officials have not offered specific details to support their concerns, they have pointed to China’s National Intelligence Law, passed in 2017. They say the law requires Chinese companies to support, provide assistance to and cooperate in Beijing’s national intelligence work, wherever they operate.That law was one of the factors that led the Czech cybersecurity agency, Nukib, to issue a formal warning in December about the risk posed by Huawei and another Chinese technology firm, ZTE.The warning, which carries the force of law, requires all companies in the Czech Republic that are deemed critical to the nation’s health to perform a risk analysis that takes security concerns into account.It has already led several large companies and government ministries to distance themselves from Huawei, including barring the company from bidding on new projects.On Friday, the Czech newspaper Dennik N published excerpts from a letter from Huawei to the head of the Czech cyber agency, Dusan Navratil, and Prime Minister Andrej Babis threatening legal action.“Huawei cannot represent a cybersecurity threat as stated in the warning,” the letter said. “Huawei, according to the Chinese law, does not have any obligation to install backdoor or spyware into their products, and the company would never agree to such a request.”Radoslaw Kedzia, Huawei’s chief representative in the Czech Republic, wrote that the cyber agency had failed to provide any specific evidence of wrongdoing and failed to explain its analysis of the Chinese law.“As consequence of the warning, Huawei has already suffered losses and faces many difficulties,” he wrote in the letter, dated Feb. 1. “For example, it was excluded from public procurement, even those that do not concern critical infrastructure.”“Retail activities have been harmed and the brand damaged,” according to the letter. The company called on Czech officials to rescind the warning, adding that if they did not receive a reply by Feb. 14, they would take the matter to court.Officials at the cybersecurity agency acknowledged receipt of the letter, a copy of which was obtained by The New York Times, but declined to comment.The pushback by Huawei was part of a broader campaign by the company to defend itself across the continent.Huawei sent a letter to the British Parliament this week defending its track record and claiming that any malicious activity on its part would “destroy its business.”The embattled company, which was founded by a former engineer in China’s People’s Liberation Army, claimed that the attacks against it were unfounded.“The governments in some countries have labeled Huawei as a security threat, but they have never substantiated these allegations with solid evidence,” Ryan Ding, the president of Huawei’s carrier business, wrote in the letter to the British lawmakers.The United States, Australia and New Zealand have already barred the company from participating in the building of the new 5G networks.In the coming months, countries across Europe are expected to begin to put in place infrastructure that would allow for the superfast, widely connected networks.Which companies will lead that effort remains an open question. But as Huawei’s threat of legal action demonstrates, the Chinese firm has no intention of ceding the lucrative market.Hana de Goeij contributed reporting.
Supported byWheelsBy Jim MotavalliGoing back at least a decade, cars have been targeted by hackers, some who ended up working with the industry, others acting maliciously. But vehicles now carry far more electronic equipment, and autonomous driving, relying on sensors, cameras and radar, is on the horizon, with all kinds of ripe new targets.Concern that cars could be seriously hacked — by criminals, terrorists or even rogue governments — has prompted a new round of security efforts on the part of the auto industry.As far back as 2010, a disgruntled former employee at Texas Auto Center in Austin used a co-worker’s account to log into company software used for car repossession. He disabled over 100 cars, and owners who were up to date on their payments suddenly found their vehicles honking furiously, and unable to start.In 2015, a veteran hacker named Samy Kamkar built a device for under $100 that he said could find, unlock and remotely start any General Motors car equipped with the OnStar communications system. Luckily, Mr. Kamkar was acting as a “white hat,” and not selling his OwnStar device to unscrupulous hackers.“I worked with G.M. to resolve that issue,” he said, and that particular vulnerability is gone. “Cars are getting more secure, but it’s a long cycle to get the necessary new software and hardware installed.”Dan Flores, a G.M. cybersecurity and safety spokesman, confirmed the collaboration with Mr. Kamkar. “We recognize the importance of the work that researchers, like Samy, do to help advance the work in this area,” he said in an email.Securing cars is a big challenge, which is why some companies that traditionally prefer to go it alone have teamed up to share best practices.Digital threats to self-driving cars, according to a 2018 University of Michigan report, “include hackers who would try to take control over or shut down a vehicle, criminals who could try to ransom a vehicle or its passengers and thieves who would direct a self-driving car to relocate itself to the local chop-shop.”The average car has over 150 million lines of computer code, and some have even more than a Boeing 787, according to a 2018 KPMG report. That complexity, the report said, “creates a real risk of cyberattack — a risk we fear many companies in the automotive industry may be underestimating.”That view is widespread. “From my perspective, automakers were a little surprised and caught off guard by this threat,” said Doug Newcomb, a senior industry analyst at Wards Intelligence. “They added all this connectivity, but got ahead of themselves and don’t always think of the vulnerabilities that exist. It’s an ongoing issue, not a fix-it-and-forget-it thing.”Failing to protect consumers can be costly, said Steve Tengler, a principal at the consulting company Kugler Maag Cie who has worked at Ford, Nissan and G.M., and was a senior director of connected vehicle cybersecurity at Honeywell.Automakers are legally bound to provide state-of-the-art protection for their cars, Mr. Tengler said. “Legal precedents show that it’s not enough to provide a product that is kind of safe,” he said. “Companies don’t have to put themselves out of business to provide the safest technology, but they do have to work within their commercial ability.”Mr. Tengler said the industry was a frequent target. “Every automaker has been hacked — every one of them,” he said. “Attacks aren’t a matter of if, but when and how.”Once a car is out of warranty, automakers are used to cutting or at least loosening their ties. But hacking issues mean that protection will most likely require factory-to-junkyard monitoring.In 2015, Fiat Chrysler recalled 1.4 million cars and trucks after Chris Valasek and Charlie Miller demonstrated, in a Wired magazine article, that they could remotely control a Jeep Cherokee’s brakes, radio, wipers and other functions by gaining access through its UConnect infotainment system.The company declined to comment on any subsequent security changes.Dr. André Weimerskirch, vice president for cybersecurity and functional safety at Lear Corporation, said that automakers had made “huge improvements” in recent years, and that joint efforts involving the industry, academia and standards organizations had also led to gains.Most car hackers have been wearing those white hats, with no criminal intent, but imagining what could happen led to the 2015 formation of the Automotive Information Sharing and Analysis Center, known as Auto-ISAC. Most of the world’s automakers are members.Faye Francy, the center’s executive director, described the Jeep episode as “a good wake-up call for the industry.”“The hackers are smart guys, very educated,” she said. “It’s not simple to do what they did. We’re fortunate that there hasn’t been another breach, but it’s not impossible.”Not impossible, but still difficult. Ron Plesco, a principal at KPMG Cyber Security Services, agrees that hacking into a car’s driver controls requires “a lot of knowledge and effort.”“It’s not as easy as Hollywood claims it is,” he said.That’s one reason we haven’t seen more major attacks. But Mr. Plesco argues that today there isn’t much incentive for thieves, since the identity information stored onboard vehicles is fairly limited.“But,” he added, “that’s about to change as we do more purchasing through the dashboard of the car. The automobile is becoming another computer that can be hacked.”New infotainment and autonomous features are important selling points, but because most consumers assume their cars are safe, automakers tend to keep cybersecurity news in the background. Much is happening behind the curtain, however. Some private security firms say they are signing on with major automakers to provide expert protection.“There are multiple ways for hackers to get in, and it’s the job of the whole industry to defend against it,” said Dan Sahar, a vice president at Upstream Security in Israel. “Just one hack can cost a manufacturer tens of millions of dollars, and that doesn’t include the brand damage. And the threat is getting more serious.”According to Mr. Sahar, “2018 saw more than 60 documented automotive-related cybersecurity incidents, a sixfold increase in just four years.”Upstream is working with “a handful” of manufacturers, Mr. Sahar said. “Automakers are focused on cybersecurity, but few say they can do it on their own,” he said.A 2019 Upstream report extrapolates a cost topping $1.1 billion for a breach that requires a large recall. The opportunity will certainly be there for criminal hackers. Juniper Research of Britain estimated in a 2018 report that by 2023 some 775 million cars would be connected to the web in some way (up from 330 million in 2018).Mr. Tengler, of Kugler Maag Cie, said it was easy to picture the danger that hackers posed to autonomous vehicles — potentially redirecting them as part of a theft. But the Jeep hack proved “it doesn’t matter if someone is driving,” he said. “If they can take control of the car, the vulnerable technology is already there.”Thieves have stolen cars by using fairly simple electronic technology, some of it freely available. A device that amplifies the signals from a car’s remote can be used to unlock the target vehicle’s doors. Mr. Kamkar said he had built such devices from off-the-shelf components for approximately $50.“It’s a lot simpler than people think,” he said.Other devices include a radio transmitter that cycles through huge numbers of possible combinations until they “crack” the target car’s key fob. In 2006, that was reportedly how the soccer star David Beckham’s armor-plated BMW X5 was stolen in Madrid. A second X5 belonging to Mr. Beckham was also stolen.“Car thieves used to have crowbars; now they use laptops,” said Mr. Plesco at KPMG.Jono Anderson, also a principal at KPMG, said the auto industry needed to learn from aerospace.“They’re very familiar with this kind of security,” Mr. Anderson said, “but it’s new to the auto industry. Maybe it’s possible to hack the entertainment system in a plane and get free movies, but it’s virtually impossible to hack the actual communications.”
Supported byBy Sam RobertsHoward A. Schmidt, a computer crime expert who advised two presidents and drafted cybersecurity safeguards that were approved by Congress in 2015, died on Thursday at his home in Muskego, Wis. He was 67.The cause was brain cancer, his wife, Raemarie, said.The legislation, which evolved from precautions Mr. Schmidt proposed several years earlier, enabled government and industry to share information about potential risks from attackers’ codes and techniques, shielded companies from liability lawsuits for trading data and provided privacy protections for consumers.By the time the legislation was finally approved, though, critics complained that it had been diluted in response to corporate concerns and was already technologically anachronistic.Recruited by President George W. Bush after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, Mr. Schmidt returned to the White House under President Barack Obama.He also oversaw the creation of the National Strategy for Trusted Identities in Cyberspace, an online authentication program less vulnerable than ordinary passwords to hackers engaged in identity theft or in stealing secrets from private industry or government.Mr. Schmidt won the trust of much of the business community, which was fending off a barrage of cyberattacks but which also feared government intrusion and a damper on innovation. At the same time, he suggested that the threat of full-scale cyberwarfare between governments was exaggerated and that any such conflict would be unwinnable.With the United States portraying itself as a victim of cyberwarfare and much of the world viewing Washington as a perpetrator — citing attacks on Iran’s nuclear program as examples — the White House proclaimed its first formal international cyberspace strategy during Mr. Schmidt’s tenure.That strategy mirrored the planned response to other security threats, in which the United States reserved the right to use all necessary diplomatic and military means to defend itself in the event of a hostile cyberincident. Meanwhile, Mr. Schmidt said, nations were already acting defensively.“Governments are starting to say, ‘In order to best protect my country, I need to find vulnerabilities in other countries,’ ” he told The New York Times in 2013. “The problem is that we all fundamentally become less secure.”He said hackers exploited the fear that if one buyer failed to pay for secret information about a computer coding flaw, another would.“If someone comes to you with a bug that could affect millions of devices and says, ‘You would be the only one to have this if you pay my fee,’ there will always be someone inclined to pay it,” he said. “Unfortunately, dancing with the devil in cyberspace has been pretty common.”For much of his 40-year career, Mr. Schmidt was in the forefront of information technology and computer security for the military, government agencies and private industry. Most recently he was a partner with Tom Ridge, the former Homeland Security secretary, in Ridge Schmidt Cyber, a security consultancy.In the mid-1990s, while working for the Air Force Office of Special Investigations, Mr. Schmidt was credited with helping to establish the federal government’s first full-time computer forensic laboratory. He also served as chief security officer at Microsoft and chief information security officer at eBay.Mr. Schmidt was the president’s special adviser for cyberspace security in the Bush administration from late 2001 to 2003. He was also chairman of the president’s Critical Infrastructure Protection Board.The Obama administration recruited him in late 2009 to be its computer security adviser. He reported to the National Security Council.Mr. Schmidt was the first president of the Information Security Forum, an industry and government coalition, and was chief security strategist for a partnership between the Department of Homeland Security and a cybersecurity program at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh.Howard Anthony Schmidt was born on Oct. 5, 1949, in Philadelphia to Anthony and Edith Schmidt. He served three tours in the Air Force in Vietnam from 1968 to 1974; was a police officer in Chandler, Ariz.; and worked for the F.B.I. at the National Drug Intelligence Center.He graduated from the University of Phoenix in 1994 with a bachelor of science degree in business administration and earned a master’s degree from that university.In addition to his wife, the former Raemarie Lange, a forensic scientist, Mr. Schmidt is survived by his mother, Edith Curtis; his stepmother, Gloria Schmidt; his sons, Kyle, David, Andrew and Anthony; and eight grandchildren.Read more obituaries and follow our coverage on Twitter.
Supported byThe skills needed for cybersecurity jobs aren’t easy to learn in the classroom.By Josephine WolffMs. Wolff is an assistant professor at the Rochester Institute of Technology.Between September 2017 and August 2018, employers in the United States posted 313,735 job openings for cybersecurity professionals. Filling those jobs would mean increasing the country’s current cybersecurity work force of 715,000 people by more than 40 percent, according to data presented at the National Initiative for Cybersecurity Education Conference this month. With the number of unfilled cybersecurity jobs worldwide projected to multiply into the millions in the next three years, it’s no surprise that governments, companies and schools are racing to pour more resources into cybersecurity training and education programs. As someone who teaches in a rapidly growing computing security program at the Rochester Institute of Technology, this is good news for me and my students. I think we are doing a good and responsible job of training our students, who will be snapped up by recruiters. But I’ve watched as the field of cybersecurity has become formalized through a flurry of new degrees, certificates and curriculums, and I worry that some fundamental components of what make people really good at security — namely, the instincts to look at systems in unconventional ways and quickly identify possible ways to cause trouble — are being lost along the way.The idea of degree programs focused solely on cybersecurity is still pretty new. At R.I.T., the bachelor’s degree in security was introduced in 2007, and the dedicated Computing Security department wasn’t formed until 2012. That means we haven’t had a lot of time to debug these programs, especially since, in academic settings, every significant curricular change typically requires several meetings followed by extensive paperwork and committee approval. The field is so new that nearly every cybersecurity professional over the age of 30 does not have a degree in cybersecurity — many of them don’t even have degrees in computer science, and several don’t have college degrees at all.Cybersecurity has long been a field that embraced people with nontraditional backgrounds. Following the Equifax breach last year, some critics slammed the company for hiring a chief security officer who majored in music, prompting a considerable backlash from security professionals who took to Twitter to flash their own liberal arts degrees or lack of formal education. The poster child for the unconventional path to a cybersecurity job is Kevin Mitnick, who was convicted of illegal computer hacking and spent five years in prison before establishing a career as a highly sought after security consultant.It’s not a coincidence that someone good at cybercrime would also be good at cybersecurity. After all, many cybersecurity jobs involve trying to think like a criminal to test the security of a software program, computer network or hardware device. Many of my students go on to work for red-teaming or penetration-testing firms, where they try to probe and attack computer systems from the outside to identify potential vulnerabilities. Some of these skills can be taught in the classroom, through checklists of where to look for possible weaknesses and tools that can be used to help conduct those assessments. But the most effective red teams, like the most effective attackers, find vulnerabilities that no one has ever thought of before — much less included on a course syllabus.The security technologist Bruce Schneier wrote an essay a decade ago about what he called “the security mind-set,” or the ability to instinctively identify ways of subverting or compromising systems by using them in unexpected ways. “It’s far easier to teach someone domain expertise — cryptography or software security or safecracking or document forgery — than it is to teach someone a security mind-set,” he wrote.Almost by definition, college classroom settings and the students who thrive in them are not a natural fit for the kinds of disruptive, rebellious and troublemaking instincts that lend themselves to finding new ways to compromise computers. It can be hard to reward those skills — much less teach them — in a college course where there are supposed to be clear expectations and learning objectives, well-defined grading rubrics and set schedules.There are efforts to try to introduce these skills to the classroom, but they are few and far between. For example, the security researchers Gregory Conti and James Caroland published an article on what they called “Kobayashi Maru” assignments, named for a “Star Trek” training exercise, designed to force students to figure out creative ways to cheat. The example they used in their own class was an exam for which students were required to write down the first 100 digits of pi with very little notice. The students were expected (and encouraged) to cheat on the test but told that if they were caught, they would fail the exam. Of the 20 students in the class where this exercise was tested, all succeeded in cheating without being caught, much to their professors’ delight.There is plenty of useful and important material being taught in cybersecurity classes beside how to cheat, from programming and networks to cryptography, and my own area of economics and policy. But the students who graduate from our degree program in security often report that they got more out of their extracurricular security clubs and competitions than their coursework. That may not necessarily be bad, or even unique to cybersecurity (don’t get me started on the topic of how much I learned writing for my college newspaper), but it does suggest that as we race forward trying to train millions more people in cybersecurity to fill all the looming vacant jobs, there may be real gaps in the skills we know how to teach. We should think carefully about the skills we need, about the rules and principles that we know how to teach and also about how to encourage students to break those rules and find ways around those principles.Josephine Wolff (@josephinecwolff) is an assistant professor at the Rochester Institute of Technology and the author of “You’ll See This Message When It Is Too Late: The Legal and Economic Aftermath of Cybersecurity Breaches.”Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.
Supported byBy Paul Mozur, Daisuke Wakabayashi and Nick WingfieldSHANGHAI — Apple said Wednesday that it would open its first data center in China, joining a parade of technology companies responding to growing global demands to build facilities that store online data closer to customers.The move is a response to a strict new law in China that requires companies to store users’ data in the country. The new data center, in Guizhou, a province in southwest China, is part of a $1 billion investment in the province and will be operated in partnership with a local data management company, Apple said.The move is part of a worldwide trend regarding the security and sovereignty of digital data. Microsoft, Amazon and Facebook are among the big American technology companies plowing billions of dollars into building data centers in Germany, the Netherlands, France and other countries. While some of the expansion is for technical reasons — the online services operate faster when they are near customers — the companies are also reacting to growing pressure from European governments and customers to maintain some control over their data.As is the case with many laws, the digital security regulations approved last month in China were vaguely worded, leaving many foreign companies uncertain about which parts would be enforced and how. Already, Amazon, Microsoft and IBM have formed partnerships with Chinese companies to offer cloud computing services based in China. Apple, easily the most successful foreign technology company in China, had much to lose without a plan for its own data center in the country.Apple said in a statement Wednesday that the new center would keep “strong data privacy and security protections in place.” The company added that no back doors, meaning ways for the government or other organizations to get around Apple’s encryption protecting the data, would be created in its systems.“The addition of this data center will allow us to improve the speed and reliability of our products and services while also complying with newly passed regulations,” Apple said.China’s rules also call for security reviews and for users of messaging apps to register their real identities. The regulations are part of a Chinese industrial policy adopted to build local capabilities. For example, a government plan called Made in China 2025 names several industries, including robotics and electric cars, in which China hopes its companies will become leaders. Foreign business groups have said the laws unfairly discriminate against companies that are not Chinese.The iPhone is a symbol of middle-class ambitions in China and is the foundation of Apple’s business in the country, which accounts for 21 percent of the company’s global sales, making it Apple’s most important market after the United States.But the iPhone has also become emblematic of China’s long reliance on foreign technology. Even before China passed the cybersecurity law last year requiring that the online data of its citizen be stored domestically, the country was pressuring foreign technology companies to operate its computer servers within its borders.Apple already stores some of the data of China’s residents in local servers, but the new agreement goes one step further with a Chinese partner responsible for running its data center, managing the sales of its services in the country and handling legal requests for data from the government.In 2014, Apple first moved some of the data of its Chinese customers that had been overseas to a domestic plant operated by China Telecom. The change occurred shortly after state-run China Central Television raised security concerns that Apple was tracking the locations of iPhone users.Careful not to offend, Apple said it “appreciated” that CCTV had flagged the issue but explained that the company did not have access to its users’ locations.The opening date for the new data center has not been set, but when it does open, Apple’s iCloud will operate from an Apple plant run by Guizhou-Cloud Big Data Industry, a data management company. That means that if Apple customers in mainland China want to buy additional iCloud storage in the future, they will do so through Apple’s Chinese partner.Apple said, however, that it would retain the encryption keys for the data stored at its center and that Guizhou-Cloud Big Data would not have access, meaning it would not be able to see what photos or documents were stored in iCloud without Apple’s permission. This is the first time that Apple has formed a partnership with a local operator for its cloud services.Other American technology companies have also moved data into China in accordance with the new law. Airbnb said last year that it was moving its user data to a domestic location, citing a need to comply with local laws.Foreign companies like Apple have had to adapt in other ways to stronger Chinese government scrutiny, often by helping to expand Chinese technological capabilities. For instance, Apple said this year that it would establish two research and development centers in China. Last year, it invested $1 billion in Didi Chuxing, a Chinese ride-hailing service. Apple has been far more profitable in China than most of its Western peers, but that success has led to pushback from the government. More than a year ago, Apple’s iBooks Store and iTunes Movies were shut down in China, six months after they were introduced there.In December, complying with what it said was a request from the Chinese authorities, Apple removed news apps created by The New York Times from its app store in China. Apple did not specify what had prompted the request. The company also must undergo “security audits” on new models of the iPhone before gaining approval to sell them in China.Even though other American technology giants such as Facebook and Google are blocked in China, Apple has maintained a thriving business in the country by adhering to local rules. It also helps that Apple’s smartphones and computers do not carry the same political or security risks as social media platforms and networking equipment.Paul Mozur reported from Shanghai, Daisuke Wakabayashi from San Francisco and Nick Wingfield from Seattle.
Supported byBy Conrad De AenlleExchange-traded funds became the next big thing in portfolio management a couple of decades ago by being cheaper and easier to trade than mutual funds.These days, some managers are offering E.T.F.s as tools for specialization at the expense of diversification, carving up the stock market into ever thinner slices for investors eager to find other next big things.E.T.F.s have evolved from covering only broad indexes, such as the S&amp;P 500, to sectors like energy and health care, industries like homebuilding and gold mining, and lately to subsets of industries — niches within niches — often in ultracool areas like robotics, cybersecurity and video gaming that capture investors’ imaginations and then their money.While investment advisers occasionally use thematic funds when managing assets for their clients, they typically encourage small investors to avoid the practice, no matter how enticing it might be to try to find the next Amazon, Netflix or Google before it becomes a technological colossus.“We would prefer that someone build a portfolio around more diversified funds,” said Jason Browne, chief investment strategist of the FundX Investment Group, a firm that manages fund portfolios for high-net-worth individuals. He warned: “If you’re an average investor, you will probably look back and think this is something you were sold and not something thoughtfully invested in that’s aligned with your long-term goals.”Like Mr. Browne, Christopher Cordaro, chief investment officer of RegentAtlantic, a Morristown, N.J., financial-planning firm, said he sees more fund marketing than fund management at work with narrowly focused E.T.F.s.“It sort of reminds me of ‘The Graduate,’ when the guy takes Benjamin aside and says, ‘I’ve got one word: plastics,’” Mr. Cordaro said. Providers of these funds “are looking for things that sound good to people, then they give them an itch they’ll want to scratch.”Sam Masucci, chief executive of the ETF Managers Group, which manages about $3 billion across 12 thematic portfolios, said funds dedicated to such narrow market segments are especially dependent on investor demand and are introduced in areas experiencing a surge in popularity.His company’s thematic funds are a mix of actively managed and passively managed portfolios. In addition to cybersecurity and gaming funds, they cover some highly focused, even obscure, industries, including mobile payments and drone technology. And for anyone worried that all that cutting-edge technology will make human beings too efficient and productive, the company also offers the Alternative Harvest fund, which invests in companies involved in marijuana production.Anyone interested in these areas, despite admonitions like Mr. Browne’s, has several alternatives to choose from.A recent report on thematic E.T.F.s by Todd Rosenbluth, director of E.T.F. and mutual fund research at CFRA Research, highlighted two gaming funds — VanEck Vectors Video Gaming and eSports, and ETFMG Video Game Tech — and two that invest in cybersecurity: ETFMG Prime Cyber Security and First Trust Nasdaq Cybersecurity.The report also mentioned four that cover the burgeoning field of robotics: ROBO Global Robotics and Automation Index, Global X Robotics and Artificial Intelligence, First Trust Nasdaq Artificial Intelligence and Robotics, and iShares Robotics and Artificial Intelligence.The performance of many of them last year illustrates the perils of owning an idea that would seem to have a lot of promise but so far has not delivered on it. The S&amp;P 500 fell 6.2 percent last year, and the Nasdaq Composite Index, a benchmark for technology stocks, lost 3.9 percent. The ETFMG gaming fund lagged both indexes badly, losing 18.8 percent, while the VanEck gaming fund was down 12.6 percent just since its introduction in mid-October.The cybersecurity funds did much better. ETFMG Prime Security rose 6.5 percent in 2018, and the First Trust fund eked out a 1.3 percent gain.As for the robotics portfolios, their returns have been awful. None of the four came close to matching the Nasdaq index. Losses last year ranged between 14 percent and 29 percent.Because interest in these areas tends to come and go, Mr. Browne uses thematic E.T.F.s to carry out short-term asset allocation decisions. Haim Israel, head of thematic investing at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, by contrast, views several technologies covered by the E.T.F.s as long-term opportunities.The business and investment prospects associated with themes like Big Data, artificial intelligence, privacy and cyberthreats, the report said, will be helped by a “techceleration” resulting from the introduction of so-called 5G technology featuring much faster data transmission rates. The rollout of 5G “will bring about the fastest transformation in human history,” Mr. Israel predicted. The reduced time it will take to transmit data will help the spread of all sorts of technologies, like gaming or self-driving cars, he said.Mr. Israel’s analysis and outlook are plausible — for the world as it is today and for various technologies as they have developed so far. As for five years from now, who knows? Change, often radical and unforeseeable, is a hallmark of the sector, making most forecasts speculative at best. That is one of the main complaints that investment advisers have with thematic E.T.F.s.“We’ve been around long enough to see a lot of the ‘next big thing,’ said Leon LaBrecque, chief executive of LJPR Financial Advisors in Troy, Mich. “Remember Blockbuster or Boston Chicken? Anyone remember the first search engine? New tech becomes old tech.”For investors interested in taking a shot with thematic E.T.F.s, advisers suggest using risk capital, and then only small amounts of it.Mr. Masucci views thematic E.T.F.s as superior alternatives to buying individual stocks. These E.T.F.s “are a tax efficient, liquid, transparent way to give that exposure without relying on advisers’ ability to pick stocks,” he said.But Mr. Cordaro pointed to a conundrum that anyone contemplating investing in thematic E.T.F.s faces: “Because they can be riskier, you wouldn’t want them to be too much of your portfolio,” no more than 5 percent, he said. “The paradox is that’s not going to move the needle that much. You’re not going to make much money on it.”If you still want to try to move the needle, he advises doing it with funds that emphasize smaller, younger businesses that are pure plays in a particular niche and that don’t fill their portfolios with established companies that only dabble in fledgling technology.Mr. Rosenbluth noted in his report, for instance, that the VanEck and ETFMG gaming funds both hold the gaming stocks Activision and Electronic Arts, but only the ETFMG fund owns the larger, more diversified tech stocks Apple and Microsoft. By contrast, the ETFMG cybersecurity portfolio is more skewed toward smaller software companies than First Trust Nasdaq Cybersecurity, while the latter holds more in big defense companies like Raytheon than the ETFMG fund does.As for the robotics funds, the two with portfolios published on third-party sites like Morningstar’s, ROBO Global Robotics and Global X Robotics, each own big companies like Nvidia and Intuitive Surgical, and smaller ones like Helix Energy Solutions.In the end, the most effective way to invest in the next big thing may be to avoid trying to do it through thematic E.T.F.s at all.“Why even go for that ride is the question,” Mr. Browne said. When you own a diversified fund, “whatever drives the economy is going to be in your portfolio. It doesn’t rely on your or my predictions of what that’s going to be.”Mr. LaBrecque recommended a similarly broad, simple approach.“We can buy the S&amp;P 500 and get the new FANGs,” a reference to Facebook, Amazon, Netflix and Google, “and the next acronym of choice,” he said. “And we can get the companies that make all the stuff people buy on Amazon, and the cars people drive to the store to buy the food to eat while they watch Netflix. And when the next thing comes along, we can own that, as well.”
Supported byBy Jane L. LevereTravel companies were hit by one data breach after another last year — firms including Marriott, British Airways, Delta Air Lines and the travel booking site Orbitz.Marriott estimates that as a result of its breach — in which the reservation database of Starwood-branded hotels in its portfolio was hacked — 383 million guest records could have been affected and 5.25 million unencrypted passport numbers were possibly compromised. And experts expect breaches in the travel sector will continue.“Travel companies are a prime target of cyberthefts” because they have “highly sensitive, personally identifiable information,” said Eva Velasquez, chief executive of the Identity Theft Resource Center, a national nonprofit organization in San Diego that supports victims of identity theft and seeks to broaden public awareness.But travelers do have options to protect their information.Bruce McIndoe, president of WorldAware, a risk management company, recommends creating a “digital persona” when booking travel or making other online transactions. This can include setting up a new, disposable phone number using a service like Google Voice and RingCentral to screen any calls based on caller ID, and to forward these to the phone number that you want to protect.Mr. McIndoe also suggests creating what he calls a throwaway email address, to be used only when booking online, to protect your actual personal or work email from theft. You can also keep your home and work addresses private with a service like iPostal1.com, PhysicalAddress.com and PostScanMail.com, which can create a new mailing address for you. And you can rent a post office box from the United States Postal Service, though this cannot be used for many online transactions.There are many steps you can take to protect any device you bring on business trips. If you work for a large company or service provider, like a law or accounting firm, your employer may be able to provide clean devices, even some with special protections appropriate for whatever destination you visit.Before leaving on a trip, Sam Rubin, a vice president of the Crypsis Group, a cybersecurity consulting firm, advises all travelers, regardless of the size of their employer, to make sure their laptops are encrypted, via software like BitLocker for Windows laptops or Filevault, for Macs. He also suggests backing up data regularly, installing application updates and deleting unneeded and old data from devices.The Global Business Travel Association, a trade group for corporate travel managers, suggests using a privacy filter on your laptop and tablet screen when you’re traveling. To prevent theft, lock your devices when you’re not using them, through a PIN, password protection or physical locks and alarms. The group also recommends using a juice-jack protector — attached to the end of your USB cord — to protect against data skimmers when you plug the cord into a public charging station. If you bring your own charging device, you won’t need a public charger.Experts strongly recommend not connecting to unsecured public Wi-Fi systems anywhere in the world, not only at coffee shops like Starbucks but also in airports and hotels, among other places. If you must use these, Si-Yeon Kim, chief risk and compliance officer of American Express Global Business Travel, suggests minimizing the number of documents you open, and being careful of whatever information you transmit.Christel Cao-Delebarre, the global privacy officer in London for Carlson Wagonlit Travel, a travel management company, advises being “very careful about speaking with colleagues and possibly sharing confidential information in public places.” She also urges travelers not to leave confidential documents unattended either in conference or guest rooms at hotels and elsewhere.When it comes to working online, Mr. Rubin advises using two-factor authentication on all Internet-accessible accounts. He suggests locking and password-protecting your mobile phone and configuring it to automatically lock after a period of inactivity, and using secure passwords, with a different password for each device and account. Password managers like LastPass and Keeper can help you remember and manage these.As for making purchases online, consider signing up for a credit card to be used only for such transactions. You also can set up a virtual credit card for a one-time purchase whose cost you can limit. Some of these can also be used to pay for recurring charges; those amounts can also be limited. Virtual credit cards are issued by companies such as Bank of America, Citi, Capital One, American Express and Privacy.com. According to Mr. Rubin, if the virtual credit card is compromised, it should have no impact on your physical card.Another payment option, possibly more secure than credit cards, is PayPal, said Robert Austin, president of KoreLogic, a cybersecurity company.BCD Travel, another travel management company, advises against posting pictures online of your itineraries, tickets or boarding passes. It also urges travelers to never leave their boarding passes and tickets on an airplane or in a hotel room, and to shred these once you’ve used them, all steps to keep cyberthieves from obtaining your travel details. Another protective measure is to use digital boarding passes issued by the airline, and apps like BCD’s TripSource, TripLingo, Apple Wallet and Google Pay. This information will be protected by the security code on your mobile phone even if the phone is lost or stolen.John Reed Stark, former chief of the S.E.C.’s Office of Internet Enforcement and author of “The Cybersecurity Due Diligence Handbook,” advises setting up your credit card account to automatically notify you of all transactions via email or its app, which he said will make you aware of every transaction as it occurs. He also suggests setting up a separate email account for these alerts, so you can easily track them and not clog up other accounts.To further track any suspicious activity, he advises subscribing to a credit and identity monitoring company — such as Experian, TransUnion or Equifax — that can provide alerts relating to your credit rating, credit cards and banking.For additional protection, Mr. Rubin suggests the purchase of an individual cybersecurity insurance policy, offered by companies like Chubb and NAS Insurance. Although such policies have long existed for businesses, individual policies are a new development.Henry Harteveldt, president of Atmosphere Research Group, a travel research company, said his company had found that a growing number of travelers were becoming uncomfortable with sharing their personal information with travel sellers.“The lesson for travel suppliers here is that no matter how good they think their cybersecurity hardware and software practices are, they may never be good enough,” Mr. Harteveldt said. “Sadly, there will be one hacker a step ahead at some travel company.”
Supported byBitsBy Nicole PerlrothEach week, technology reporters and columnists from The New York Times review the week’s news, offering analysis and maybe a joke or two about the most important developments in the tech industry. Want this newsletter in your inbox? Sign up here.Hello, dear readers! I’m Nicole Perlroth, cybersecurity reporter here at The Times. I’m afraid the week’s news isn’t all unicorns and rainbows.This should come as a shock to no one, but President Trump’s confrontational diplomacy has energized state hackers in Iran and China. They are targeting companies and government agencies in the United States with renewed gusto, after a multiyear lull. The rebound in activity comes on top of the continuing threat from Russians, who have already started hacking European civil society groups before elections there in May.Consider this a preview of 2020.With the United States pulling out of the nuclear deal with Iran, Iranian hackers are hitting American banks, businesses and federal agencies with cyberattacks. They’ve significantly stepped up their game: harder to track down and more effective.We’re no longer talking so-called denial-of-service attacks that make websites hiccup. They’re exploiting weaknesses in the internet’s backbone to steal web traffic as it passes between government agencies, banks and businesses that manage their back-end infrastructure.The attacks rattled Homeland Security officials, who triggered an emergency alert during the government shutdown last month. Security researchers say that the attacks have not relented and that they’re hitting American targets with an unnerving success rate.The news out of China is even more troubling. Mr. Trump’s trade confrontations with Beijing have energized state hackers in Beijing, who have renewed attacks on American businesses, especially in high-tech and defense companies.Chinese industrial espionage notably dropped after President Barack Obama and President Xi Jinping of China reached a 2015 deal to cease cybertheft of trade secrets. Now, the gloves are off.Miriam Wugmeister, a cybersecurity specialist at the law firm Morrison Foerster, told me that Fortune 500 companies were being hit at “shockingly high” rates.It’s rare that victims step forward — state laws require companies to disclose breaches only if personal data is compromised — but T-Mobile, Boeing and General Electric Aviation are among the companies in the crossfire.If that’s not worrying you, consider my colleague Sui-Lee Wee’s blockbuster report Thursday on China’s campaign to build a DNA database, in part to track and suppress China’s minority Uighur population. Beijing could not have pulled this off without a big helping hand from Thermo Fisher, a Massachusetts equipment maker, and genetic material provided by a prominent Yale University researcher who says he was unaware the material was used as a surveillance tool.In other news:■ Lyft is racing to beat Uber to an initial public offering, my colleagues Mike Isaac and Kate Conger reported. Lyft is hoping to debut on the Nasdaq at a $20 billion to $25 billion valuation before it’s overshadowed by its bigger ride-hailing competitor, Uber, which bankers initially pegged at a $120 billion valuation.■ Google is losing advertisers after a YouTuber posted video showing the prevalence of pedophiles who comment on videos of children doing regular activities like gymnastics or stretching. My colleagues Dai Wakabayashi and Sapna Maheshwari reported that major brands like Nestlé and Epic Games have pulled advertising after users flagged their ads on children’s videos targeted by pedophiles.YouTube and other big tech companies are already under fire for failing to aggressively police their platforms. Last month, YouTube said it had tweaked its algorithm to stop recommending conspiracy theories to users. This past week, my colleague Kevin Roose wrote a terrific piece outlining one of the central challenges for the company: Some of YouTube’s biggest stars (and ad magnets) push conspiracies.Google is hardly the only company struggling with misinformation. This month, The Guardian discovered that YouTube’s recommendation algorithms and Facebook’s search results were still steering viewers from fact-based medical information to anti-vaccine misinformation. All this as the Pacific Northwest is still reeling from an emergency measles outbreak.■ Karl Lagerfeld, the fashion icon, died in Paris on Tuesday. True to form, no obituary had an accurate read on his age, though The Times noted he was “generally thought to be 85.”A tech newsletter this depressing would not be complete without my favorite Lagerfeld quote: “Sweatpants are a sign of defeat. You lost control of your life, so you bought some sweatpants.” (Thank God Karl Lagerfeld never set foot in Silicon Valley.)Nicole Perlroth writes about cybersecurity in the Times’s San Francisco bureau. Follow her here on Twitter: @nicoleperlroth.
Supported byBy Paul MozurHONG KONG — It has been a tough year in China for America’s technology companies.Uber sold off its operations there. Beijing ordered some of Apple’s services shuttered. And Microsoft faced a new inquiry.Now, in the final days of 2016, China’s internet regulator suggested the coming year may be even trickier. A report by the regulator on Tuesday suggested it would formalize a cybersecurity review system on tech products in the country.That could mean another problematic step for foreign tech firms in what has already become a tough market. The report did not offer details about what the government checks would look for, but the language was similar to that described in an article in The New York Times in May about foreign companies quietly submitting to security checks targeting encryption and data storage.Over the course of 2016 and part of 2015, a number of major foreign technology companies were subject to secretive Chinese security reviews. During the checks, Chinese officials would ask employees of the companies to answer questions about products in person. The reviews are run by a committee of engineers and experts with ties to the country’s military and security agencies.The checks have already raised alarms among American tech companies, and if formalized, they could create a new standoff between China and the United States over internet policy.The report, the first of its kind released by the regulator, the Cyberspace Administration of China, is part of a broader effort to streamline cybersecurity management in the country. More broadly, it outlined other details of efforts to enhance already unprecedented internet controls in China. For example, the report also doubles down on a cybersecurity law passed last month that raised concerns among human rights groups and foreign companies.Beijing has struggled to balance its goal of fostering innovation with its desire to keep control over a communication medium it believes could be destabilizing. While it includes boilerplate references to opening up, the report makes clear that the government will continue to err on the side of control for now.In a section subtitled “Peace,” the report said that Beijing would work to get ahead of a global cybersecurity arms race threatening international peace. In another part, the regulator said that China would use military means if necessary to protect its internet sovereignty. China has said in the past that the internet represents a new realm, akin to space, in which it must assert its rulership rights.The new report is the clearest signal yet of the government’s intent to crystallize those checks into a formal policy.The document includes a long list of economic sectors that could be deemed sensitive, which could mean that they would eventually be required to use only computing equipment approved by regulators. The sectors include energy, finance, traffic, education, research, industry, water management, manufacturing and health care, as well as communications systems and the internet.To some degree, bringing the checks into the open would be welcome. Some people who were aware of the security checks on encryption and data storage complained that they were vaguely defined and treated as a secret. For foreign companies, that left open the possibility that the checks could be used to extract trade secrets or to find weaknesses in products for state hackers.Still, if China were to be more public about the checks, it could lead to copycat policies from other countries, analysts have said.Drafts of proposed Chinese laws are typically released to domestic and foreign companies for comment. In this case, the reviews were carried out without formal legislative process, meaning that companies had little room to push back.Cao Li in Beijing contributed research.
Supported byletterA reader suggests that some of the good guys may in fact be bad guys when it serves their purpose.To the Editor:“Avoiding Hacking Stereotypes”  (Inside The Times, Sept. 24), like other reporting on the subject, classifies hackers into two groups: the “good” guys and the “bad” guys. The good guys, the cybersecurity professionals, some of whom are former bad guys, work for companies and organizations to bolster defenses against the bad guys, who hack with nefarious intent. But how can we know that these respected and lauded good guys are always good? Human nature being what it is, some of the good guys may not always be immune to the pressures and greed that may result in working a cybersecurity gig by day and operating illicitly at night.The public and the companies that have critical information on their computers and devices always need to be vigilant and on guard even if they employ cybersecurity experts.Robert GordonHouston
Supported byBy Zolan Kanno-YoungsWASHINGTON — Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, said on Monday that cyberthreats against the United States were a national security crisis that she described as her top priority — not the situation for which President Trump last month declared a national emergency.“On top of my list of threats, that many of you can guess, the word ‘cyber’ is circled, highlighted and underlined,” Ms. Nielsen said in a speech outlining her department’s focus in the coming year. “The cyberdomain is a target, a weapon and a threat vector all at the same time.”Mr. Trump has called the increasing flow of immigrants to the southern border one of the most urgent national security issues threatening the United States. Last week, issuing his first veto against legislation that would have blocked him from diverting Defense Department funds to build a border wall, the president described a recent spike in migrants crossing the border as an “invasion.”The Department of Homeland Security oversees customs officers and immigration agents who are on the front lines of the Trump administration’s campaign to close the border to illegal immigration.Ms. Nielsen did dedicate a portion of her speech on Monday to what she called a “humanitarian and security catastrophe” of Central American families traveling to the border. She also noted that the projected number of migrants who may be apprehended at the southern border this month was expected to rise to 100,000, up from 76,000 in February.But mentions of digital threats were dispersed throughout her approximately 35-minute address to an auditorium of various Department of Homeland Security officials.Among global jihadists and transnational criminals, Ms. Nielsen listed “cyberthugs and hackers and resurgent nation-state rivals” as an emerging threat to the United States. She asked two cybersecurity officials who helped safeguard the 2018 elections to stand for a round of applause.Ms. Nielsen also assailed President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and the Kremlin “for a concerted effort to undermine our elections and our democratic process using cyberenabled means.” And she said the average American citizen or company was “no match” for virtual threats from Russia, China, North Korea and Iran.“I am more worried about the ability of bad guys to hijack our networks than their ability to hijack our flights,” Ms. Nielsen said. “I am concerned about them holding our infrastructure hostage, stealing our money and secrets, exploiting children online and even hacking our democracy.”John Cohen, a former acting under secretary for intelligence during the Obama administration, said law enforcement could no longer look at the threats in the digital world and the physical world as separate issues. Extremist groups now circulate videos on the internet to inspire terrorist attacks, and drug traffickers are using the dark web — something Ms. Nielsen also highlighted in her speech.Mr. Cohen said he remained unclear on how Ms. Nielsen proposed combating cybersecurity threats.“There is an incredible amount of talent at D.H.S.,” said Mr. Cohen, also a senior adviser at the agency during the George W. Bush administration. “My concern is that talent and those capabilities are being underutilized, because in the eyes of many at the White House, the sole purpose for D.H.S. is to conduct its immigrant and border security activities.”Ms. Nielsen said the department was focused on increasing collaboration with the private sector, citing a summit meeting held in New York last year for industry and government officials. She said she expected the cooperation between various homeland security agencies to improve when the department consolidates at a former mental hospital next month.She praised the department’s work in defending the integrity of the 2018 midterm elections and said she was confident in her department’s ability to secure the 2020 presidential vote. Ms. Nielsen also said homeland security would continue to pursue prosecutions against foreign entities that hack the American digital infrastructure.“What worries me, though, is not what these threat actors have done,” Ms. Nielsen said, “but what they have the capability to do.”
Supported byTech FixBy Brian X. ChenSAN FRANCISCO — Facebook said on Thursday that millions of user account passwords had been stored insecurely, potentially allowing employees to gain access to people’s accounts without their knowledge.The Silicon Valley company publicized the security failure around the same time that Brian Krebs, a cybersecurity writer, reported the password vulnerability. Mr. Krebs said an audit by Facebook had found that hundreds of millions of user passwords dating to 2012 were stored in a format known as plain text, which makes the passwords readable to more than 20,000 of the company’s employees.Facebook said that it had found no evidence of abuse and that it would begin alerting millions of its users and thousands of Instagram users about the issue. The company said it would not require people to reset their passwords.The security failure is another embarrassment for Facebook, a $470 billion colossus that employs some of the most sought-after cybersecurity experts in the industry. It adds to a growing list of data scandals that have tarnished Facebook’s reputation over the last few years. Last year, amid revelations that a political consulting firm improperly gained access to the data of millions, Facebook also revealed that an attack on its network had exposed the personal information of tens of millions of users.In response, the company has repeatedly said it plans to improve how it safeguards people’s data.“There is nothing more important to us than protecting people’s information, and we will continue making improvements as part of our ongoing security efforts at Facebook,” Pedro Canahuati, Facebook’s vice president of engineering in security and privacy, said in a blog post on Thursday.Here’s a rundown of what you need to know about the password vulnerability and what you can do.Storing passwords in plain text is a poor security practice. It leaves passwords wide open to cyberattacks or potential employee abuse. A better security practice would have been to keep the passwords in a scrambled format that is indecipherable.Facebook said it had not found evidence of abuse, but that does not mean it did not occur. Citing a Facebook insider, Mr. Krebs said access records revealed that 2,000 engineers or developers had made nine million queries for data that included plain-text user passwords.A Facebook employee could have shared your password with someone else who would then have improper access to your account, for instance. Or an employee could have read your password and used it to log on to a different site where you used the same password. There are plenty of possibilities.Ultimately, a company as large, rich and well staffed as Facebook should have known better.There’s no easy way to know. Facebook is still investigating, and will begin alerting people who might have had their passwords stored in the plain text format.Facebook is not requiring users to change their passwords, but you should do it anyway.There are many methods for setting strong passwords — for example, do not use the same password across multiple sites, and do not use your Social Security number as a username or a password. You can set up security features such as two-step verification as well.There are a few other steps to take. I recommend also setting up your Facebook account to receive alerts in the event that an unrecognized device logs in to the account. To do so, go to your Facebook app settings, tap Security and Login, and then tap Get alerts about unrecognized logins. From here, you can choose to receive the alerts via messages, email or notifications.An audit of devices that are logged in to your account may also be in order, so that you know what laptops, phones and other gadgets are already accessing your account. On Facebook’s Security and Login page, under the tab labeled “Where You’re Logged In,” you can see a list of devices that are signed in to your account, as well as their locations.If you see an unfamiliar gadget or a device signed in from an odd location, you can click the “Remove” button to boot the device out of your account.Follow Brian X. Chen on Twitter: @bxchen.
Supported byBy Adam SatarianoBARCELONA, Spain — The United Arab Emirates said on Tuesday that it would use equipment from the Chinese technology giant Huawei to build a new high-speed wireless network, despite pressure by the United States to steer clear of the company’s products.The announcement, made at a major European trade conference, was another setback for a campaign by officials from the United States to persuade countries to restrict the use of Huawei equipment in next-generation wireless networks, known as 5G. The Trump administration claims Huawei’s equipment creates a cybersecurity risk that China’s government can exploit for espionage or sabotage, a charge Huawei has forcefully denied.But the plan detailed by the United Arab Emirates’ state-owned telecommunications company, Etisalat, was the latest indication that American officials are having difficulty persuading other countries to go along with their push against Huawei, the world’s largest maker of telecommunications equipment.The United Arab Emirates is a reliable ally of the United States in the Middle East, and a major buyer of American military equipment.Much of the American lobbying campaign against Huawei has focused on Europe, where Huawei sells antennas, base stations and other equipment used in telecommunications networks. Last week, the British authorities signaled that they did not believe a blanket ban of Huawei was necessary to secure the country’s wireless networks. The Czech Republic, France, Germany and Poland are also considering restrictions against Huawei.The United Arab Emirates made its announcement during the annual wireless industry conference, MWC Barcelona. The event, attended by more than 100,000 people from more than 2,000 companies, has become a referendum on Huawei. The United States sent a delegation of officials from the State, Commerce and Defense Departments to meet with representatives from telecommunications companies and governments to warn against using Huawei equipment.On Tuesday, the conference played host to dueling news conferences between Huawei and the United States.In the morning, Huawei’s rotating chairman, Guo Ping, said that the allegations against the company were baseless, and that it would never allow its equipment to be used for spying.“Huawei has not and will never plant back doors,” he said. “And we will never allow anyone to do so in our equipment.”By the afternoon, American officials had called a hastily arranged news conference to reiterate their concerns. Citing a Chinese law that requires companies to work with the government on national security matters, Robert L. Strayer, ambassador for cyber and international communications, said countries should be wary working with Huawei.The confrontation followed a statement last week by Secretary of State Mike Pompeo that countries that allow Huawei in its 5G networks may be blocked from information sharing with the United States.But the threats have failed to win new restrictions against Huawei. A frustration among those who have met with American officials is the lack of evidence indicating how Huawei could present a cybersecurity risk.The United Arab Emirates said Huawei would help build 300 5G towers in the first half of this year. Financial details weren’t disclosed.On Tuesday, Mr. Guo said people were right to be asking about the security of new wireless networks, but added that the United States also deserved scrutiny for its past behavior.“It’s an important question to ask,” he said. “And if you don’t understand this question, go ask Edward Snowden.” Mr. Snowden, a former government contractor, fled the United States in 2013 after revealing a wide-ranging internet surveillance program by American spy agencies and their allies.Follow Adam Satariano on Twitter: @satariano.
Supported byBy Nicole Perlroth and Katie BennerTwo Iranians were behind the ransomware attack that crippled Atlanta’s government for days this year, the Justice Department said in an indictment unsealed on Wednesday, detailing a sophisticated scheme of attacks on hospitals, government agencies and other organizations.The men, Faramarz Shahi Savandi and Mohammad Mehdi Shah Mansouri, chose targets with complex yet vulnerable systems — organizations that could afford to pay ransoms and needed to urgently restore their systems back online, prosecutors said.In the case of Atlanta, one of the most sustained and consequential cyberattacks ever launched against a major American city, the pair broke into the city’s computer systems and held their data hostage for about $51,000 worth of the cryptocurrency Bitcoin, prosecutors said.“They deliberately engaged in an extreme form of 21st-century digital blackmail, attacking and extorting vulnerable victims like hospitals and schools, victims they knew would be willing and able to pay,” Brian Benczkowski, the head of the criminal division of the Justice Department, said in a news conference on Wednesday.The Treasury Department also imposed sanctions on two other Iranians, accusing them of changing the Bitcoin obtained by the hackers into Iranian rial.Mr. Savandi and Mr. Mansouri, who are wanted by the F.B.I., created the malicious software SamSam Ransomware, prosecutors said, and began to gain access to their victims’ computers in January 2016. The software is well known to cybersecurity experts.Atlanta officials said at the time that they would not pay the ransom, even as the attack ground court, parking and employment systems to a halt. For days, police officers wrote reports by hand, warrants were not validated, applications for city jobs sat unprocessed and government workers were unable to access basic administrative systems.“Victims are encouraged not to pay the ransom,” said Amy Hess, a top F.B.I. cybercrime official. She added that there is no guarantee that the victims will get their data back.Mr. Savandi and Mr. Mansouri collected more than $6 million in extortion payments, law enforcement officials said. The cities and businesses targeted lost more than $30 million as they scrambled to fix computer systems and recovered data, according to court documents.Many of the victims were public agencies with missions that involve lifesaving and other critical functions. Among them were Allscripts Healthcare; Laboratory Corporation of America; the city of Newark; the University of Calgary; the Port of San Diego; the Colorado Department of Transportation; and hospitals and health care groups in Los Angeles, Kansas, Maryland and Nebraska.In the case of Mr. Savandi and Mr. Mansouri, the Justice Department indictment indicated that they belonged to the SamSam group, which is well known to cybersecurity researchers.The group was also known for meticulously encrypting its victims’ data, manually from file to file; changing file names to “I’m sorry”; demanding high ransom payments in Bitcoin; and giving victims only a week to pay before they made their data permanently inaccessible, according to major security firms like Symantec, the Crypsis Group and others.Cybersecurity researchers said they were surprised to learn that the SamSam group was based in Iran. Other than the group’s name — Samsam Kandi is the name of a tiny Iranian village — no indicators showed that the group was based in Iran.“They weren’t using any of the Iranian infrastructure or typical Iranian tools and, until now, ransomware was not a typical Iranian attack method,” said Allan Liska, an intelligence analyst at Recorded Future, a threat intelligence firm based in Boston.The defendants had used Bitcoin exchanges to launder their ransomware profits. People in countries with heavily sanctioned governments like North Korea and Iran are increasingly turning to cryptocurrency to bypass sanctions, Mr. Liska said.Though officials were careful to note that the suspects were not affiliated with the government of Iran, American officials and private-sector cybersecurity experts have been closely monitoring internet traffic out of Iran after President Trump’s decision to pull out of the deal over its nuclear program last May.Within 24 hours, monitors in the United States and Israel picked up a notable shift in Iranian state hacking activity, including renewed attacks on diplomats and foreign affairs offices of American allies, as well as employees at major telecommunication companies.
Supported byBy Andrew E. KramerMOSCOW — The treason trial of some of Russia’s top cybersecurity officials ended on Tuesday without solving the mysteries at the center of the case: Why had the men been arrested and what, if anything, did they have to do with Russia’s efforts to disrupt the 2016 American presidential election? Was the prosecution driven not by geopolitical concerns but by a businessman’s desire for revenge?The case began when Russian counterintelligence investigators seized several leading cybersecurity officials in raids conducted in early December 2016. With the arrests coming one month after the American election, speculation swirled that the men had been caught leaking information that helped the F.B.I.’s investigation into Russia’s election hacking.But no clear evidence of that has ever emerged, and the drawn-out trial wrapped up in a Moscow military courtroom without shedding any official light on the reasons for the arrests or if the timing of them, coming so close to the election, signaled a connection to the Russian meddling.Under the watchful eye of security forces wearing ski masks, journalists were allowed into the courtroom for the first time on Tuesday to hear the verdict. Speaking for about 10 minutes, a judge convicted the two main figures and sentenced them to lengthy terms in prison for treason, without saying why.Sergei Mikhailov, a former deputy director of the computer crimes unit of the Federal Security Service, the main successor agency to the K.G.B., was sentenced to 22 years in a penal colony on two counts of treason.Ruslan Stoyanov, a senior researcher at Kaspersky Lab, an antivirus company, was sentenced to 14 years on one count of treason. Two other suspects had earlier pleaded guilty and are awaiting sentencing.Both men convicted Tuesday had for years cooperated with United States law enforcement and Western computer security researchers on bread-and-butter cybercrime issues like stopping spam and bank fraud.But then came the election hacking scandal in 2016, and the men’s arrests signaled that this type of cooperation would stop.Cooperating with the United States was “something that went out of fashion after the scandal,” said Andrei Soldatov, the author of “The Red Web,” and an authority on Russian internet policies.As part of the election interference operation, two Russian hacking groups intruded into the servers of the Democratic National Committee. One group was affiliated with the F.S.B., Mr. Mikhailov’s agency, and the other with the Russian military intelligence organization known as the G.R.U., according to United States government officials and cybersecurity researchers who studied the breach.Only the G.R.U. leaked the stolen information, according to a United States interagency report on the hacking released in 2017. The special counsel investigating Russian meddling, Robert S. Mueller III, last year indicted 12 G.R.U. officers.The detailed accusations by American intelligence agencies against Russia, and the stated high level of confidence in their findings, gave rise to questions about whether they had sources inside Russia.Leaks about the treason case reported in the Russian news media, as well as interviews with defense lawyers and a witness, have indicated that the defendants’ ties to American officials long predated the presidential campaign, and that the information they passed on was not directly related to the hacking investigation.Kommersant, a Russian newspaper, reported this month that Mr. Mikhailov and Mr. Stoyanov were accused of revealing to the F.B.I. information about F.S.B. investigative methods while cooperating with American colleagues on a criminal case nearly a decade ago.Mr. Mikhailov, through intermediaries, passed the data to the F.B.I. in 2011 while investigating ChronoPay, a Russian online payments processing company, the newspaper report said, potentially opening a window on money flows in the Russian online underworld — information that could also be useful in the investigation of the election hacking.At the time, Russia was under diplomatic pressure from the United States and Canada to prosecute the company’s owner, Pavel Vrublevsky, for selling counterfeit erectile dysfunction pills to Americans through websites. Mr. Vrublevsky has denied ties to that scheme.Mr. Mikhailov led the successful prosecution of Mr. Vrublevsky on a separate accusation of hacking the payment system for online ticket sales at Aeroflot, the Russian national airline.Outside the courtroom on Tuesday, a defense lawyer, Inga Lebedeva, told reporters that Mr. Vrublevsky had initiated the treason case in a vendetta against the F.S.B. official and the cybercrime researcher who had put him in prison in the Aeroflot case.“His goal was revenge,” Ms. Lebedeva said. At no point during the closed trial, she said, had Russian meddling in the 2016 United States election come up.“The boys think that in their activities against hackers and criminals they stepped on somebody’s tail,” Ms. Lebedeva said of the two defendants. She said both men would appeal their convictions.Mr. Vrublevsky, in an interview, said he had testified against the pair in the treason trial and believed that they had indeed illegally passed information to the American authorities, but not about election hacking. “These guys were selling fairy tales to the United States about people doing business, like me,” he said.Still, the arrests amounted to a purge of the leadership of the cyberwing of Russia’s main intelligence agency in the midst of the electoral hacking scandal, an issue carrying immense implications for Russia’s relations with the United States.Along with Mr. Mikhailov, who was reportedly dragged from an F.S.B. meeting with a bag over his head, Russian counterintelligence officers detained his deputy, Dmitry A. Dokuchaev. Mr. Dokuchaev pleaded guilty in the treason case.The United States has not accused Mr. Dokuchaev of having any role in the election hacking but has indicted him in a separate cybercrime case that overlaps with sanctions imposed on Russians for election meddling. Federal authorities in Washington and San Francisco in 2017 accused Mr. Dokuchaev, who at the time was also facing the treason charge in Russia, of doubling as a cybercriminal while working at the F.S.B. He was accused of hacking Yahoo and stealing 500 million passwords.That indictment identified him as having overseen the work of one of three others named in the Yahoo hack, a suspected cybercriminal, Aleksei A. Belan, whom the Obama administration placed under sanctions in relation to the election hacking.
Supported byBy Melissa EddyBERLIN — After hackers, later determined to be working for Russia, broke into Parliament’s main computer network three years ago, the government vowed to fortify its cybersecurity. The authorities schooled lawmakers about changing passwords, using two-step identification and other measures to protect online data.But on Friday, nearly 1,000 lawmakers and other prominent Germans, including rappers, journalists and internet personalities, awoke to find links to their street and email addresses, private chats from social media, bank account details and pictures of their children published on Twitter, in another major breach aimed at the country’s political establishment.All those attacked had a history of criticizing the far right, whose politicians appeared to be spared, raising suspicion that the hacker or hackers were sympathetic to their agenda, though the authorities said they had no indication yet who was behind the attack.The breach spread a fresh round of alarm in Germany, a country where citizens especially covet their privacy, and once again raised the disconcerting question of whether even the most vigilant and sophisticated individuals and governments can safeguard their computers and the valuable personal, financial and other sensitive information that resides there.Even beyond Germany, the attack fit into a building pattern of breaches with the seeming aim of shaking confidence in the political establishment or undermining important players in it.The weaponization of hacked information has become an increasingly common theme in politics, said Jonas Kaiser, a Harvard University expert who studies online misinformation.“A lot of leaks and hacking campaigns have become a more normal part of the political discourse,” he said.The most notable examples were emails from the Democratic National Committee that were stolen during the 2016 election in the United States and have become part of the investigation into whether Russia sought to tilt the vote in President Trump’s favor. On the eve of voting in France’s 2017 elections, hackers similarly made a public dump of what was presumed to be a mix of real and fake emails from the campaign of Emmanuel Macron, now the president.This time, the leaks went on for more than a month as the hackers teased and dribbled out their bounty. It was only late Thursday, when the Twitter account of a popular German YouTuber, Simon Unge, who has some two million followers, was hijacked that the extent of the attacks finally came into fuller light.Mr. Kaiser said the authorities would try to determine whether the attack was perpetrated by a state-backed group. The release of personal information by an individual or small group would generate a different response than one done by a government, he said.Cybersecurity experts said the hacker or hackers appeared to have taken considerable effort to collect and spread the looted information across different servers in an attempt to make tracing them and taking down the data more difficult.Angela Merkel’s government vowed a thorough investigation. “The German government takes this incident very seriously,” said Martina Fietz, a spokeswoman for the chancellor.As the country’s main cybersecurity defense team called a crisis meeting to coordinate with domestic and foreign intelligence agencies early Friday, Twitter took down the accounts used by a hacker calling himself GOd that had been broadcasting links to the information since early last month.The hacker released the information through links published on Twitter in the form of an Advent calendar, where a window is opened every day leading up to Christmas, revealing a picture or treat.“The first window is for a very special beloved moderator who everyone knows,” read the entry for Dec. 1, which included links to private information from the comedian Jan Böhmermann, who several months ago had started an initiative to discredit a group of far-right internet trolls.Starting on Dec. 20, Germany’s established political parties appeared, beginning with the Free Democrats and followed by the Left, the Greens and Social Democrats.Dec. 24 — the final day in the calendar — was reserved for the conservative Christian Democrats and Christian Social Union. The published link led to servers hosting lists of personal information ranging from internal party documents to screen shots of private chat exchanges to images of a personal ID card, front and back.Only the main opposition force in Parliament, the far-right Alternative for Germany, or AfD, was excluded. Stephan Brandner, a member of Parliament with the party responsible for justice affairs, condemned the hack. “Protection of private data goes for everyone, including politicians, regardless of which party they belong to,” he said.Germans prize personal privacy — a legacy of abuses by the Nazi- and Communist-era secret police — and the country has long had some of the world’s strictest laws protecting personal information. Germany was the first country to force Google to allow individuals to blur images of their homes on its Street View mapping service, following outrage over the amount of data the company was collecting.But German defenses have not caught up to German fears, rendering the country exceedingly vulnerable to attacks.Although the Twitter accounts used for disseminating the information were taken down early Friday, several hours later, many of the servers hosting the information remained accessible.Lukasz Olejnik, an independent cybersecurity and privacy adviser, said the attack showed deliberate planning. Dispersing the content among servers across the internet made it more likely the information would remain accessible even after Twitter shut down the account that initially published the links, he said.“The attacker’s intent is not clear at this moment but it is clear that a considerable effort was put in,” said Mr. Olejnik, who is also a research associate at the Center for Technology and Global Affairs at Oxford University. “It was work intensive.”Germany’s cybersecurity office said it was investigating whether the data was harvested in a central attack, a series of separate ones originating from different services, or in private communications.“At this time, there is no indication that the government network was breached,” the office, known by its German initials B.S.I., said in a statement.Beyond Germany, the hacking adds to concerns about the security of European parliamentary elections in May, which many officials fear are vulnerable to digital interference and disinformation campaigns by hackers or state-backed groups. Last month, European Union officials announced a plan to better coordinate responses to false messages around the elections.Leading members of the Greens and the Social Democrats said they filed criminal charges against unknown individuals for illegally publishing their personal data. A spokesman for the Left party confirmed that the information of some of its members had been exposed, including that of Dietmar Bartsch, the leader of its caucus in the lower house of Parliament.Mr. Böhmermann, the first person targeted in the leak, tried several months ago to organize opposition to the far-right group Reconquista Germanica, which spreads disinformation and harasses, provokes and belittles opponents.The data, which included Mr. Böhmermann’s phone numbers, personal chats and photographs of his two young sons, was advertised as, “Nice things that you can have fun with.”Germany’s main government network was breached by hackers in 2015, and the authorities worried that information obtained then would be used against politicians leading up to the 2017 election. Those fears were largely unfounded.Hackers appeared to have again penetrated the German government’s main data network last March — a system that was supposed to be particularly secure and is used by the chancellor’s office, ministries and Parliament.Luca Hammer, an independent German social media analyst who studies activity on Twitter, said that because no right-wing troll chat groups had picked up the leak, the hacker may have been a single individual.“They had to get into a popular Twitter account to get noticed,” he said over Twitter. “Therefore I assume they acted alone. But I don’t know.”The attack prompted warnings in German media about the need for greater vigilance by the government and of how individuals can better protect themselves online.A commentary in Süddeutsche Zeitung drew a parallel between the cyberattack and terrorism. “Even if in this case nobody has been injured or killed,” the aim of the hack was to trigger “a diffuse fear” in German society at large.“The question of whether public spaces are safe for the individual turns out to be the same for Facebook and the Outlook mailbox as it is for soccer stadiums and the Oktoberfest,” the paper wrote.Adam Satariano contributed reporting from London.Follow Melissa Eddy on Twitter: @meddynyt.
Supported byBy Karen WeiseSEATTLE — A group of hackers associated with Russian intelligence targeted civil society groups across Europe ahead of May elections there, Microsoft said on Tuesday.The attacks, disclosed by Microsoft in a blog post, demonstrate the continuing spread of a broad online campaign aimed at disrupting real and potential political opponents of Russia’s president, Vladimir V. Putin. The company said it had found that hackers targeted more than 100 email accounts at think tanks and nongovernmental organizations that work on issues including election security, nuclear policy and foreign relations.Microsoft didn’t address what country the attacks came from, but it blamed a group of hackers sometimes called Fancy Bear. Online security companies have identified Fancy Bear as a Russian group, and it is widely believed to be tied to Russian intelligence.Fancy Bear was involved in the 2016 hacking of the Democratic National Committee in the United States, according to the party and security researchers. Last year, the American authorities indicted 12 Russian intelligence officers related to the hacks of the party headquarters and the Clinton presidential campaign.Russian officials have denied that Moscow had any role in the hacking attempts.Despite scrutiny of groups like Fancy Bear, the attacks have continued. Last year, the same hacking group similarly targeted Republican think tanks that had criticized President Trump before the midterm elections in the United States. Microsoft also detected those as part of its cybersecurity operations.Increasingly the attacks have also targeted groups that are not directly involved in elections but seek to steer debate or focus on specific targets, as both the 2018 attacks and the new attacks disclosed in Europe show.Microsoft said the latest attacks had taken place in advance of the European Parliament elections, which are set for May, “as well as several key national elections.”The company said the attacks occurred between September and December and took the form of spearfishing campaigns. Spearfishing involves sending emails that appear to come from legitimate sources to get users to click the links inside. If a user clicks those links, hackers can install malware, steal passwords or conduct other online mischief.The German Council on Foreign Relations, the European offices of the Aspen Institute and the German Marshall Fund of the United States were among the groups that were targeted and agreed to be disclosed, Microsoft said.In a statement on its website, the German Marshall Fund said groups beyond candidates and their political campaign managers must be increasingly vigilant.“Everything we do as an organization, from our policy research to our work strengthening civil society, is dedicated to advancing and protecting democratic values,” it said. “The announcement serves as a reminder that the assault on these values is real and relentless.”The other groups could not immediately be reached for comment.The targeted research institutes have done work related to issues important to Russian policy and its continuing use of misinformation to influence elections. The German Marshall Fund, for example, has investigated Russia’s use of social media to spread political messages in its favor in various elections in Europe. The German Council on Foreign Relations has published reports related to arms control and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, which has been at odds with Russia.Microsoft has been tracking the increase in hacking attempts by nation states, including Russians, as part of its Defending Democracy Program, which it announced last year to provide protection to candidates, political parties and nongovernmental organizations working in the field of elections.It said it was expanding its AccountGuard cybersecurity service free to campaigns and nongovernmental organizations that use its Office 365 software in 12 new European markets to protect against these kinds of hacks.A Microsoft executive, Tom Burt, said in the blog post that Europe was the birthplace of democracy, and that “as the ongoing attacks demonstrate, this idea is increasingly under threat.”
Supported byThe new secretary of state must fix an infrastructure that’s extraordinarily vulnerable to hackers. By Adam Levin and Beau FriedlanderMr. Levin is the founder and chairman of CyberScout. Mr. Friedlander writes about cybersecurity.The governor’s race in Georgia between Stacey Abrams and Brian Kemp has turned into an ugly, drawn-out affair, and we won’t know the final results for a while. Mr. Kemp, the Republican, declared victory and resigned as Georgia’s secretary of state so he wouldn’t be responsible for overseeing the counting of votes in the race — though before he resigned he did make an unsubstantiated claim that Democrats were hacking the election.There is a silver lining in this mess: The new secretary of state could finally fix Georgia’s astoundingly insecure voting system, one of the most poorly protected in the country.This has been a rough election for Georgians. Accusations of racism and voter suppression have abounded. An outside investigation found that more than 340,000 voter registrations had been improperly canceled by Mr. Kemp’s office. A significant number were reinstated by court order, but there is no way of knowing if voter turnout would have been even higher if the Kemp purge hadn’t happened. On top of this, an indictment of 12 Russian intelligence officers as part of Robert Mueller's inquiry into election interference suggests that the election system in counties in Georgia were targeted for hacking in 2016. That’s not all. Earlier in the campaign cycle, a cybersecurity researcher discovered that Georgia’s entire voter database (housed at Kennesaw State University), which contains the records of 6.7 million voters, was at risk. And when the Department of Homeland Security told Mr. Kemp that Georgia had been  one of 21 states targeted by Russian hackers in 2016, he waved off the threat and declined help from Washington for the midterms, saying that the state had everything under control.It gets worse. Georgia is one of five states that rely solely on direct-recording electronic voting machines. These machines don’t have a paper trail, which makes it hard to detect manipulation of the vote. The whole point of securing an election is so voters feel confident that their vote will be counted properly. News of a hack was already a significant problem before Election Day because it jeopardized the integrity of the election.Democracy needs high voter confidence to work. According to Carbon Black, a cybersecurity company, one out of four people it surveyed considered skipping the midterm elections out of a concern about hacking. The potential exposure of Georgia’s voter data at Kennesaw State, the refusal of help from the Department of Homeland Security and the state’s inclusion in the Mueller indictment as a target of Russian hacking and Mr. Kemp’s apparent lack of interest in new vulnerabilities probably places Georgia near the bottom of the list of states that are prepared to withstand an attack on their election system.Mr. Kemp’s permament successor will be decided in a runoff on Dec. 4. How can the winner fix Georgia’s problems? Register new voters, encourage maximum participation in elections and use best practices to ensure the integrity of Georgia’s voter database. The new secretary should not emulate Mr. Kemp, who seemed to reject voter registration applications or declare previously registered voters ineligible every chance he got.The secretary of state should identify vulnerabilities in Georgia’s election systems before the Russians, a cybersecurity researcher or anyone else does. When informed of a problem, the secretary must promptly fix it. The Department of Homeland Security and private election security firms should participate in this process. Protecting election security requires collaboration.It’s crucial that the secretary stays abreast of the known vulnerabilities in voting machines used at polling stations and other devices connected to elections. The new secretary needs to collaborate with fellow secretaries of state to share threat assessments and solutions.Another task is to develop a method to detect fraud (like risk-limiting audits that many states use) that will identify unusual results as soon as possible after they are recorded. Aggressive testing is critically important to determine whether any change or patch to a system has introduced a new vulnerability. This is something that did not happen when Georgia quietly patched that reported hack that Mr. Kemp had blamed on the Democrats.A big part of the solution is for all state, county and local election officials to inculcate a culture of privacy and security. This requires continuous education and comprehensive training in threat identification and r best practices.There is a reason we’ve heard so much about election security since 2016: Democracy demands confidence in the vote. We don’t have that yet. Adam Levin is the founder and chairman of CyberScout, the author of “Swiped: How to Protect Yourself in a World Full of Scammers, Phishers and Identity Thieves.” Beau Friedlander writes about cybersecurity.
Supported byAnother ViewBy Craig A. NewmanGet the DealBook newsletter to make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.__________Five years ago, the Securities and Exchange Commission adopted a rule requiring investment firms to pay attention to identity theft. It never enforced it — until late last month.In a cease-and-desist order against Voya Financial Advisors, the investment advisory unit of Voya Financial, the commission used the “Identity Theft Red Flags Rule” to censure the firm for allowing hackers to access social security numbers, account balances and even details of client investment accounts.The S.E.C.’s action should set off alarm bells for every financial firm and board of directors under the agency’s watch. Most companies are probably not in compliance with the rule and, given the agency’s increased focus on cybersecurity, they should move quickly to address any issues.The rule — originally part of the Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul — calls for investment firms to maintain an up-to-date program for preventing identity theft, which should provide “red flags” or other warning signs when hackers might be trying to steal customer information. The rule also requires that a firm’s board of directors or senior leadership team administer the program.The S.E.C.’s charges in the Voya case were so egregious that it might explain why the agency finally dusted off the rule. In fact, Voya’s violation was deemed “willful” by the commission.For six days in 2016, cybercriminals called the firm’s helpline and impersonated Voya’s independent investment representatives — the staff members who make up the largest segment of the firm’s work force. Even though Voya’s system flagged some of the telephone numbers used by the hackers as potentially fraudulent, the callers were able to convince Voya’s helpline staff to reset their passwords and provide new ones over the phone, according to the S.E.C.The intruders used the new passwords to gain access to the personal information of 5,600 customers and create new online customer profiles.The hackers were able to change customer phone numbers and addresses so account statements and confirmations would be rerouted without triggering a fraud alert. In several instances, hackers used “@yopmail.com,” a disposable email service that lets users create temporary email address, to review incoming emails and then destroy everything, without automated verification messages being sent to the real customer.Surprisingly, Voya had an identity theft program in place for nearly a decade before the incident, but the program languished. It was never updated and fell far below the requirements of the regulation. It was not approved by the firm’s board of directors or senior leaders, as is required, and was ignored by Voya’s security team.In the settlement — in which Voya did not admit or deny the charges — the S.E.C. ordered the company to clean up a long list of data security issues. The agency for the first time also mandated a consultant to monitor the company’s compliance with the red flags rule.It’s likely that few companies and even fewer boards are aware of the rule. Many are familiar with the S.E.C.’s general data safe security regulation and its guidance to public companies about disclosing cybersecurity risks and data breaches. But the red flags rule — for all its timeliness and importance — has been ignored.Over the past few years, the S.E.C. has made cybersecurity a priority. Earlier this year, it updated its guidance to public companies, telling them to reduce cybersecurity risk factors and improve data breach disclosures. And in April, the S.E.C. pursued its first-ever cybersecurity enforcement action against Yahoo after the company failed to disclose for more than two years that hackers had made off with the personal information of more than 500 million users. Altaba, the company that has since purchased Yahoo, was fined $35 million for the tardy disclosure.It shouldn’t be surprising, then, that the S.E.C. is toughening its stance on data security issues. Although the S.E.C. only hit Voya with a symbolic $1 million fine, it’s doubtful that the agency will be as forgiving in the future. The penalty could be a mere starting point, with future fines quickly escalating.The choice for investment firms and their boards is clear: Shore up identity theft programs or risk increasingly serious consequences.Craig A. Newman is a partner and chair of the data security practice at Patterson Belknap Webb &amp; Tyler LLP, the New York law firm.Get the DealBook newsletter to make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.
Supported byBy Alina TugendPITTSBURGH — In a technology lab full of graduate students huddled over laptops, Prof. Marios Savvides flipped through photos on a computer screen searching for one full of people whose faces were barely recognizable to the human eye.“How about a riot?” Professor Savvides asked. He had just come upon an image of police officers wearing helmets and gas masks and rioters covering their mouths and noses with bandannas — all trying to shield themselves from the tear-gas- and smoke-filled air.Professor Savvides was delighted. It was a perfect example of where, with the facial recognition skills of artificial intelligence, “we can now recognize a face from very few pixels,” he said.The episode was unfolding at the Biometrics Center, part of the CyLab Security and Privacy Institute at Carnegie Mellon University.The center was created by Professor Savvides, who is a widely recognized expert in biometrics — the science of measuring and identifying people using facial and iris recognition systems. On any given day, the high-tech space is crowded with computers, robots, and other machines and populated with doctoral students working with him.CyLab, which includes the center, was founded in 2003 to expand the boundaries of technology and protect people when that technology — or the people using it — poses a threat.Based in the university’s 25,000-square-foot Collaborative Innovation Center, CyLab works in partnership with roughly 20 corporations — like Boeing, Microsoft and Facebook — and government agencies to do research and education in internet privacy and security.The subject has become one of the hottest areas of research and training in the United States these days as increasingly sophisticated hackers threaten not only personal computer security but also the operation of everything from banking systems to water purification plants to nuclear arsenals. While the threats mount, the number of people qualified to confront them is far too low, experts say, and educational institutions and government agencies are scrambling to fill the gap.More than 300 researchers and graduate students are working or studying at CyLab this year, making it among the largest cybersecurity training centers in the world. It offers more than 50 courses in security and privacy and has trained more than 75,000 people.Biometrics, the science of using hard-to-mask physical attributes — like facial characteristics, fingerprints, retinal scans and DNA — is just one specialty. CyLab is also engaged in broader uses for A.I., cryptography, network security and an array of other cybersecurity skills.One of the first times Professor Savvides and his group used his facial-recognition technology for something besides research was just after the 2015 Boston Marathon bombing. His lab took the blurry, low-resolution, surveillance image of the suspected bomber released by the F.B.I. and, using A.I. technology, reconstructed the image and sent it to the bureau.The next morning, the identity of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, who was convicted of the bombing, was revealed. Professor Savvides doesn’t know whether his reconstruction helped the F.B.I., but “we were extremely surprised to see the resemblance to Tsarnaev that was constructed from the very low resolution, pixelated face that even our human brain cannot comprehend,” he said.Professor Savvides was also happy to demonstrate another gee-whiz technology — long-distance iris scanning. Rather than requiring that an eye be placed directly up to a scanner, the device he helped invent looks like a very large camera lens with a smaller one on top and wings of infrared lights on either side. It can identify people by their irises from as far as 40 feet away.Like fingerprints, each person’s iris is unique; it stays the same as we age, and unlike fingerprints, cannot be scratched or covered up in some way short of removing the eye altogetherAnd fingerprints can’t be taken from a long distance.In a video he made, Professor Savvides showed how it would be possible for police officers to identify the driver of a car they’ve pulled over for a violation by capturing a detailed image of the iris as the driver glances into the side mirror and comparing it to their database of irises.Then police would know whether the person was driving a stolen car, had a criminal record or was on a terrorist list — and might be dangerous — before walking up to the car.It could also help speed up endless security lines at airports. Instead of a human agent taking a passport or a driver’s license and running it through a security check, the irises of travelers could be quickly scanned.Of course, the potential for abuse makes some people wary of the technology. An article in The Atlantic magazine on the concept noted that “identification to a degree comparable to fingerprints at a distance is not something our social habits and political institutions are wired for.”Professor Savvides gets annoyed with such talk.“We all want better computer and human relations — we’ve craved it for decades,” he said. “But biometrics and facial recognition are stigmatized by Hollywood.”Some of the CyLab work is focused on the threats that most affect people in their daily lives: password security.Lujo Bauer, director of the university’s Cyber Autonomy Research Center, within CyLab, said his research showed that to avoid being hacked, a computer user’s passwords had not only to be complex, but long.“A password that’s long and just slightly complex is stronger than a password that’s very complex but short,” said Mr. Bauer, an associate professor of computer science and electrical and computer engineering.Just changing a few words or adding numbers in a password already used does very little to stop hackers, who can easily try thousands of variations of a password in rapid succession, he said. As everyone has been told repeatedly, the worst thing to do is reuse passwords from different accounts. That may be how many people’s accounts have been hacked.One way to check if your account has been compromised in a data breach is to go to haveibeenpwned.com.Other research from CyLab has discovered that, contrary to common assumptions, older people are less likely to be a target of phishing than 18- to 25-year-olds, perhaps because younger people are more likely to take risks, said Jason Hong, a professor at Carnegie Mellon’s Human-Computer Interaction InstituteMuch of cybersecurity is, as Kathleen Carley, a professor at Carnegie Mellon’s School of Computer Science, put it, “employing computer techniques to better understand society and employing our knowledge of society to better understand computer techniques.”Her work is social cybersecurity — that is figuring out how to make social media “a free and open place without undue influence.”It’s a subject that has become a major societal issue with the suspected Russian hacking of the 2016 election in the United States.Most people, she said, don’t realize the impact of bots, which are software applications that run automated tasks over the internet. The role of bots is to convince and direct individuals; it could be for relatively innocuous reasons such as marketing, but increasingly bots are used by organizations or governments to run schemes or sow discord on social media by creating or amplifying an existing conversation, making it more virulent and divisive.The bots exploit how human brains are wired. People hear something repeated over and over, seemingly from many sources, and it soon seems like the truth.“They are affecting the country’s values and beliefs,” she said.One example, which Professor Carley and her team discovered in 2015, was a bot used to persuade Syrians and those in the Syrian diaspora to go to a website to donate to charity for Syrians.“We believe it was actually a money-laundering site for ISIS,” she said.In that case, the bots, or botnet, which are bots connected together and controlled as a group, were identified simply through human detection. But A.I. researchers have now created algorithms to identify bots.The one Professor Carley and her team created is called bot-hunter.Perhaps even more insidious are bots that generate and magnify discord on social media, “warping the information environment,” Professor Carley said, and affecting everything from how people vote to what they buy to how they view others in society.There are relatively few bots compared with real human accounts, but they are so active that their effect is far out of proportion to their size, she said.One popular example is the big role bots played in the civil unrest in Ukraine in 2013 believed to be fomented by the Russians, Professor Carley said.She and others are developing technological fixes, such as using A.I to do automatic fact-checking, to identify bots and to identify posts with abusive language. But, she said, “the tools are in their infancy,” and technology alone won’t solve this problem “Policymakers and the public have to be educated,” she said.But technology can solve a lot, and that is why graduate students working with CyLab have helped create a digital cybersecurity game for those over 13 years old called picoCTF, for Capture the Flag.In its fourth year, the competition attracted more than 27,000 students from around the world this time, usually working in teams. It is played over two weeks and involves increasingly complex challenges — requiring high-tech solutions — to capture the flag. Only participants in the United States are eligible for the top prize — a visit to Carnegie Mellon and $5,000. But the prestige is high.And while fun, it is also a way to encourage young people to think about a profession they may never have considered before.“There’s a dramatic shortage of people in cybersecurity,” said Martin Carlisle, a professor and director of academic affairs at Carnegie Mellon who oversees the contest. “And we know the vast majority of students have picked their major by the time they get to college.”So targeting middle- and high-school students, he said, is a way to get them excited about a career in cybersecurity before they’re already in college.This year’s winner? Dos Pueblos High School in Goleta, Calif. It was the only team that solved every challenge, although thousands made significant inroads, he said.“This was one of the few competitions I could access as a high school student,” said Carolina Zarate, who entered the contest in Maryland and who is now a graduate student studying information security at Carnegie Mellon.She helps develop problems for picoCTF and is also part of Carnegie Mellon’s competitive hacking team, which has won four out of the last six competitions at the Def Con conference, considered to be the Olympics of hacking competitions.For Ms. Zarate, the interest in cybersecurity was always there, but she said she hoped the challenge got more people involved.“If you think how many new areas technology is touching — what if someone hacked self-driving cars or bitcoins?” she said. “I want my money and life to be safe.”
Supported byBy Adam SatarianoLONDON — A British review of Huawei found “significant” security problems with the Chinese company’s telecommunications equipment, a conclusion that supports a United States effort to ban it from next-generation wireless networks.The British report, released on Thursday, said there were “underlying defects” in Huawei’s software engineering and security processes that governments or independent hackers could exploit, posing risks to national security. While the report did not call for an outright ban of Huawei equipment, it was endorsed by the country’s top cybersecurity agency.The conclusions buttress the Trump administration’s push to convince its allies that Huawei, the world’s largest maker of telecommunications equipment, creates grave risks to national security. The White House has accused Huawei of being an arm of the Chinese government that can be used for spying or to sabotage communications networks, a charge that Huawei has vehemently denied.But the American push has run into hurdles. Many countries, including Britain, have resisted the effort to ban Huawei, arguing that the risk can be mitigated. It is a critical time for wireless carriers as they prepare to spend billions of dollars to introduce next-generation wireless networks, known as 5G, which governments see as essential infrastructure for a rapidly digitizing global economy.The British report highlights broader challenges facing many countries. While Huawei products may pose cybersecurity risks, the company is a key provider of the equipment needed to build 5G networks. If countries issue an outright ban, they could face costly delays in adopting the technology that not only will increase the download speeds of mobile phones but is expected to create breakthroughs in manufacturing, transportation and health care. And Huawei is already a central part of many countries’ telecommunications networks, making a ban logistically difficult.Governments are looking to continue using Huawei’s equipment while limiting its risks. Germany, India and the United Arab Emirates, among others, have signaled they are unlikely to follow the Americans’ lead on a ban of Huawei’s 5G equipment.In a statement, Huawei said the British report “details some concerns about Huawei’s software engineering capabilities. We understand these concerns and take them very seriously.”This week, the European Union issued recommendations on securing 5G networks that didn’t call for a Huawei ban. The British government is expected to issue new telecommunications regulations this year.One main concern raised by the United States and others pushing for a ban is Huawei’s ties to the Chinese government, which maintains tight control over the national economy. A law adopted by China in 2017 has been interpreted as requiring companies to provide assistance to Beijing on national security matters.Garrett Marquis, a spokesman for the National Security Council, said the United States commended Britain “for taking a hard look at its telecommunications vendors in order to ensure the maximum security of its networks.” He added, “We share many of the concerns listed in the Oversight Board’s report.”The British authorities are trying to differentiate Huawei’s security flaws from a broader effort by Beijing to infiltrate its networks. The report on Thursday described a company with poor engineering practices and problems stemming from those engineering flaws, more than one operating at the orders of Chinese authorities.In the report, British officials determined that Huawei could not replicate much of the software it built, meaning that the authorities could not be sure what code was being introduced into the country’s wireless networks. They added that Huawei had poor oversight of suppliers that provided components for its products.“There remains no end-to-end integrity,” the report said.A senior American government official, speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss sensitive internal deliberations about Huawei, said the British finding of pervasive sloppy engineering underscored concerns about the security risks and hidden costs of using cheaper Huawei equipment in 5G networks.The environment at Huawei could allow for the intentional introduction of an exploitable flaw that would be lost in the background noise of poor practices, the official said. The official added that the intelligence community did not expect to find overt, smoking-gun “back doors” in Huawei code clearly meant to permit illicit access to network data. Instead, it expects “bug doors” — flaws that can be explained away as a mere mistake if they come to light, but that can be exploited for the same purposes by China or by other sophisticated actors who discover them.Since 2010, Britain has had an oversight board, now led by the National Cyber Security Center, tasked with overseeing Huawei’s operations. The company’s products and code are reviewed at a security lab about 70 miles outside London. In November, after British officials raised questions with Huawei about its practices, the company pledged to spend $2 billion over the next five years to improve its software and security processes.The approach is seen as a potential model for other countries looking to add more safeguards over Huawei. Germany has opened a security lab in Bonn where Huawei’s equipment and code can be reviewed. The company has also opened a facility in Brussels to appease the concerns of European Union officials.British officials have remained confident the Huawei risk can be managed. Ciaran Martin, the head of the National Cyber Security Center, said this year that an outright ban wasn’t necessary because the country had strong oversight and kept Huawei equipment outside the most sensitive areas of the country’s networks.Yet Thursday’s report remained sharply critical of Huawei. “No material progress has been made,” the report concluded.Follow Adam Satariano on Twitter: @satariano.Adam Satariano reported from London. Charlie Savage and Julian E. Barnes contributed reporting from Washington.
Supported byDr. Elena Miriam Welt and Jason Ira Burke were married Oct. 20 at the Willard Intercontinental Hotel in Washington. Rabbi Jacob Singer-Beilin officiated.The bride and groom, both 32, graduated from Washington University in St. Louis.The bride is a physician in a pulmonary and critical care fellowship at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington. She received a medical degree from Rutgers New Jersey Medical School.She is the daughter of Andrea F. Welt and David M. Welt of Livingston, N.J. Her mother is an administrative assistant at the Temple B’nai Jeshurun Rabbi Barry H. Greene Early Childhood Center and Camp T.B.J. in Short Hills, N.J. Her father is a lawyer and the senior partner in the law firm of Welt &amp; Kuzemczak in Clifton, N.J.The groom is a technology consultant at Zeichner Risk Analytics in Arlington, Va. He received a law degree from Fordham. He is currently pursuing a master’s degree in cybersecurity at George Washington University.He is a son of Sharon B. Burke and Dennis B. Burke, also of Livingston. His mother is a lawyer in private practice specializing in divorce mediation in West Orange, N.J. His father is a founder and the chairman of the board at Essextech, a company that provides cybersecurity solutions to businesses in Rochelle Park, N.J.The couple grew up in the same town in New Jersey and attended Washington University in St. Louis. But they did not connect until they both moved to Washington in 2014. They had their first date at Hank’s Oyster Bar.
Supported byBy Christine NegroniVitaly Kamluk, a cybersecurity and malware expert, was returning from vacation on Singapore Airlines in February when his wife noticed a small circle that looked like a camera lens along the lower edge of the video screen in the seat back.“It really looked like a camera to me, but you can never be sure,” Mr. Kamluk said. So he took a photo of the circle and tweeted it to the airline.He got a quick response from Singapore, which acknowledged that it was a camera but said it had been “disabled.” He also got plenty of attention on Twitter.Now, two senators have asked eight airlines based in the United States to respond in the next few weeks to questions about the cameras, including whether the airlines have used them “to monitor passengers” and whether passengers have been “informed of this practice.”“I think it’s just outrageous,” said Senator Jeff Merkley, Democrat of Oregon, who sent the letter along with Senator John Kennedy, Republican of Louisiana. “I don’t want a camera staring at me, and I don’t think most passengers do.”Of the carriers that received the letter, at least three do not have any kind of embedded seat back screen. According to the Airline Passenger Experience Association, an airline trade group, the American carriers that do have cameras have not made them operational.The high-definition cameras and the microphones that go with them are part of a new generation of systems offered by Panasonic and Thales, the two biggest airline entertainment system manufacturers. David Bartlett, chief technology officer for Panasonic, said the devices allowed passengers to have the same kind of interactive technology in the sky that they use on the ground.“Whenever you introduce a new technology, you’re going to have challenges,” Mr. Bartlett said. “But I would say the demand for it has never been stronger than today. The expectation of a connected experience has never been stronger than it is today.”Mr. Bartlett gave a number of potential uses for the cameras, including seat-to-seat or seat-to-ground video chats, motion-activated control of movies, games and other options displayed on the screen and smart lighting that dims when the camera detects that the passenger is sleeping. Airlines, he said, could also create digitally branded frames so passengers could take selfies and share them on social media.The entertainment system manufacturers are embedding the cameras across all their product lines, which means, according to Joe Leader, chief executive officer of the Airline Passenger Experience Association, that airlines had no choice but to install them. And though the cameras have been on airliners for several years, most passengers did not seem to notice them.Of the reaction to Mr. Kamluk’s tweet, Dr. Leader said, “When people are surprised, it hits a nerve,” especially if they see a camera where they do not expect one.Emirates, based in Dubai, has found a use for the camera installed on a portable tablet in its first-class suite. Using an app called Room Service, a passenger can talk to flight attendants.“We use it to allow the passenger to ask the crew for something, and they have a crew screen and camera in the galley,” said Patrick Brannelly, vice president for passenger experience at Emirates. The passenger has to enable the camera to be seen by the crew, but the passenger cannot see the crew in the galley, he said. “Emirates would never allow the camera to be on without making it 100 percent clear to the passenger that it was on.”After the tweet by Mr. Kamluk in February, the Airline Passenger Experience Association said its members were committed to obtaining “advance explicit customer permission” before using the cameras. In a statement, the association added that airline passengers were “typically tracked outside the aircraft dozens of times on a typical journey through stores, security, roadways and airports by cameras without any permission.”The two senators, in a statement, said that Americans “have an expectation that they are monitored in airports as a necessary security measure.” But they added, “The notion that in-flight cameras may monitor passengers while they sleep, eat or have private conversations is troubling.”Mr. Kamluk said he saw cybersecurity risks in the seat back cameras and the microphones attached to them.“It’s all connected to a computer system, and that is connected to the network, which is connected to the internet, so I see a way it can be accessed remotely,” he said.Mr. Merkley said he was concerned that airlines might misuse the cameras. Even before receiving airlines’ replies to his letter, he said he was unlikely to be convinced by the responses.“I have paid a fair amount of attention to privacy issues,” he said. “They’re not going to convince me to trust them when there’s a camera and mic in front of me. I don’t want them there. It is a huge violation of trust.”As far as turning cameras into revenue-producing tools, the airline industry’s holy grail, several people who work on the revenue-generating side of the business say that’s not in the near future.“I’m not aware of any practical use for these cameras,” said Jay Sorensen, a consultant specializing in airline revenue. “There’s no role they can play.”He added, “In my role trying to generate revenue for an airline, the best way to sell more stuff on board is to have humans trained and motivated to sell things to passengers.”Mr. Kamluk suggested the new technology might be improved with an old-fashioned mechanical solution.“A better option for those who are concerned is to introduce a way to disconnect the microphone and camera with a click of the button so that passengers could disable the hardware,” he said. “Disconnect the wires by pushing a button.”A spokeswoman for United Airlines, Maddie King, said in an email that her airline was working on something similar — covering all of the cameras on its in-flight entertainment systems.But Dr. Leader said the airline industry group’s members were confident passengers would want the cameras in the future.“Threatening legislation to penalize airlines for providing next-generation in-flight entertainment, with cameras that are not in use, and installed only for future possibilities with explicit passenger approvals, would be a disservice to airline passengers,” Dr. Leader said. He predicted that the senators would eventually agree.
Supported byBy David E. Sanger and Emily CochraneWASHINGTON — The campaign committee for House Republicans discovered in April that the email accounts of several of its senior officials had been hacked by what analysts later concluded was a “foreign entity,” people who have been briefed on the case said on Tuesday, highlighting the continued vulnerability of the United States to interference in its elections.The hack of the organization, the National Republican Congressional Committee, exposed thousands of emails from four senior aides for months, and perhaps longer. The hack was terminated when the staff members, alerted to the intrusion, changed their passwords. The committee called in the F.B.I. to investigate.But the committee waited eight months — until after Republicans lost 40 seats and control of the House of Representatives in the midterm elections — to disclose publicly what had happened. It remains unclear who was behind the hack.Over the weekend, Defense Secretary Jim Mattis told a defense forum at the Reagan Library in California that President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia “tried again to muck around in our elections this last month, and we are seeing a continued effort along those lines.” But he gave no indication whether he was referring to the Republican committee email breach or other activity including a disinformation campaign.By all accounts, the hack was not as widespread or sophisticated as the Russian effort to take over the computer systems of the Democratic National Committee in 2016. In that instance, the Russians implanted malware into the computer server that ran many of the Democratic committee’s operations and had free run of its communications networks. It was an operation American intelligence officials have testified was personally ordered by Mr. Putin.The breach of the Republican campaign committee, first reported by Politico, appears to have been more limited. The intrusion into the four email accounts was detected in April by a vendor for the committee.“The N.R.C.C. can confirm that it was the victim of a cyberintrusion by an unknown entity,” Ian Prior, a spokesman for the organization, said in a statement. “The cybersecurity of the committee’s data is paramount, and upon learning of the intrusion, the N.R.C.C. immediately launched an internal investigation and notified the F.B.I., which is now investigating the matter.”Mr. Prior declined to comment further, citing the continuing investigation. None of the emails appear to have been published. That could suggest that the hackers were just testing to see if they could break into the committee, or that they found the trove of stolen material insufficiently interesting.This was not the first time the Republicans had been a target. In 2016, Russian hackers broke into the servers of an outside vendor who appeared to have largely outdated documents from past presidential campaigns, James B. Comey, then the director of the F.B.I., told Congress in January 2017.Mr. Comey said that Russian hackers executed “limited penetration” of old Republican National Committee computer systems that were “no longer in use.”Until then, Republican officials — led by Sean Spicer, who later became Mr. Trump’s first press secretary — denied that the Russians had gotten into the party’s systems. Mr. Trump himself mocked the Democrats for the breach they suffered, saying Republicans had far stronger cybersecurity.The hack of the Republican campaign committee discovered this spring came after years in which cybersecurity and the risk of interference by foreign governments or other malicious actors have loomed large in American politics, putting both parties on guard.In this case, senior House Republicans, including Speaker Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin; Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the House majority leader; and Representative Steve Scalise of Louisiana, the majority whip, were not aware of the breach until Politico reporters contacted them, a person familiar with the investigation said.The person said that the techniques used by the hacker or hackers suggested that the breach was carried out by “a sophisticated actor.” The chief evidence was the lengths to which the hacker or hackers went to cover their tracks, another person familiar with the investigation said. “It was not a very broad or big hack,” that person added, “but it was skillful.”That alone would suggest that the hackers might be state sponsored, or at least experienced. But often it is difficult to tell whom hackers are working for, and state-sponsored hackers often go to considerable lengths to hide that information.Until the announcement on Tuesday, Republicans had little to say about continued Russian activity in the midterm elections. While top national security leaders had warned before the November elections that Russia was engaged in a “pervasive” campaign to sow discord and influence American voters, Congress appropriated relatively few funds to protect election systems. And a once-bipartisan effort to pass legislation that was intended to ensure that state officials had the resources to protect machines and voter-registration systems failed before the bill even made it out of committee.Ever since the 2016 events, Democrats and Republicans have tried, and failed, to come to some kind of agreement over whether their candidates would exploit the revelation of emails or other hacked materials about their opponents. The talks have always broken down.In a statement, the incoming chairwoman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, Cheri Bustos, said that “we condemn all cyberattacks in the strongest possible terms, and we continue to urge all political committees and campaigns to agree publicly never to use stolen hacked materials for political gain.”
Supported byBy Marc Santora and Hana de GoeijPRAGUE — For more than 1,000 years, the sprawling castle complex perched high above Prague has been the seat of power for Holy Roman emperors, the kings of Bohemia and, now, the Czech president, Milos Zeman. And for the last four years, the Chinese technology giant Huawei has had a contract to fulfill the communication needs of the president and his staff.The presidential contract is the most visible symbol of how deeply Huawei has established itself in the Czech Republic, long viewed by China as a springboard country for its interests across the European Union.So when the Czech government’s cybersecurity agency issued a directive in December warning that Huawei represented a potential national security threat, company officials were shocked — as was Mr. Zeman, known for his closeness to China. Huawei has threatened legal and financial retaliation. Mr. Zeman has accused his own intelligence services, including the cybersecurity agency, known as Nukib, of “dirty tricks.”The unexpected confrontation in the Czech Republic comes as Huawei, already entangled in the trade war between China and the United States, is running into deepening problems in European Union countries, where it has worked for years to build inroads. Only weeks after Nukib issued its directive against Huawei, Polish authorities in January arrested a Huawei employee in Warsaw on charges of spying.Looming above everything is the question of which companies will build the infrastructure of the fifth generation of wireless technology, known as 5G. American officials regard the technology as a national security issue and have moved aggressively to limit the role of Chinese companies, especially Huawei.Speaking in Budapest on Monday, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, who is touring Central Europe, warned about “risks that Huawei’s presence in their networks present — actual risks to their people, to the loss of privacy protections.”Huawei is already hitting problems in Germany and Britain, traditional American allies. Yet few people would have predicted that the most direct action against the company would come from the Czech Republic, where Mr. Zeman has long courted Chinese investment and is planning to make his fifth visit to China in the spring. The Nukib directive has infuriated the president and driven a wedge into the Czech government.In an interview, Dusan Navratil, the head of the agency, said the stakes are high because 5G “will change the whole way societies function.” While the public might think of 5G as simply a matter of faster download times, the system is designed to be far more, linking everything from the cars we drive to the hospitals we visit in a way unimaginable only a decade ago.Mr. Navratil said one reason his agency penalized Huawei was China’s National Intelligence Law, which was passed in 2017 and requires Chinese companies to support, provide assistance and cooperate in the authoritarian nation’s national intelligence work, wherever they operate. While declining to discuss classified intelligence, he offered an analogy.“Imagine there is a restaurant where the hygiene is filthy rotten,” Mr. Navratil said. “The agency overseeing the restaurant has no evidence someone has gotten sick or died. But does that mean you should eat there?”As a result of the agency’s move, Huawei’s business in the Czech Republic could be devastated. The directive doesn’t affect consumer products, such as mobile phones, but it aims to severely restrict the role Huawei can play in 5G, and to block it from supplying equipment to public and private entities deemed critical to national security.“This is the first time we have ever issued such a warning,” Mr. Navratil said.Since then, the Ministries of Health and Justice announced that they would not honor existing contracts to buy servers from Huawei. The country’s largest carmaker, Skoda, has temporarily stopped Huawei from bidding on projects as it undergoes a security review demanded by the new cyberdirective.Even Huawei’s contract with the presidential offices is under review.In turn, Huawei has been hitting back. Last week, the company threatened litigation against the cyberagency, as well as economic retaliation. It also has intensified lobbying campaigns with some lawmakers and others in the political elite, including a Czech delegation that the company hosted in China last month.“The Chinese believe they are one to two years ahead of everyone and they see this as an effort to slow them down,” said Jaroslav Roman, a Czech Communist Party official on the visit. “They wanted us to know that if the discrimination continued, there would be repercussions.”Huawei officials have argued that the Chinese law regarding intelligence is being deliberately misinterpreted, a point disputed by many Western experts.But it is the threat of economic retaliation that has most alarmed many business leaders and lawmakers, given how ardently Mr. Zeman has built economic ties between the two countries. One example is PPF Group, the largest Czech company, which has focused on China in recent years.Its home lending business counts some 15 million Chinese customers, which is not much in Chinese terms but hugely important for the Czech-owned company. PPF also controls the country’s largest telecom provider, O2, and had signed a memorandum of understanding with Huawei regarding future projects before the security agency issued its warning. That will now have to be reviewed.Mel Carvill, a board member for Home Credit, a consumer loan company that is a part of the PPF Group, said the Chinese regulatory agency overseeing the home lending business had not taken any action against the company.“Of course, if relations between countries deteriorate, things might become difficult,” he said.Huawei officials, for their part, were so confident in their standing in the Czech Republic that in June, they decided to push for Czech security clearance to work on critical infrastructure — a move that may have contributed to the cyberagency’s decision to more closely scrutinize the Chinese company.“It was overreach on their part,” said Jakub Janda, the director at the Prague-based think tank European Values.Mr. Janda said there was particular concern about the dozens of technology assistants working for Huawei who had unlimited access to all the data gathered by their mobile partners.Unlike cases involving Russians accused of spying in the Czech Republic, Mr. Janda noted, concerns about Chinese espionage are kept quiet for diplomatic reasons. No one has been charged with spying in the country.Even as Huawei is trying to regain footing in the Czech Republic, the company is also mounting a public relations counteroffensive in Poland, after the arrest in January of the company executive. Last week, Huawei issued a news release in Poland, warning that communication services would increase by 300 percent if the company were excluded from the market.Meanwhile, Huawei has sought to ease Polish security concerns by promising to spend hundreds of millions on a new cybersecurity center. It has also offered the Polish government access to Huawei’s source code in order to prove that its equipment does not have a “back door” for the Chinese intelligence services.However, some experts have said such gestures are hollow, given how often codes can be updated or changed.For Mr. Navratil, the head of the Czech cyberagency, the issue facing security officials was as evident as it was urgent.“We are a sovereign country and we have a right to say what is in our security interest,” he said. It would be helpful, he said, if NATO or the E.U. would offer some specific guidance since it would give small nations greater ability to act without fear of retaliation.That does not appear to be happening anytime soon.“Given the stakes,” Mr. Navratil said, “we cannot just rush headlong into this.”
Supported byIoanna Thomas Kefalas and Alexander Nicholas Mark Niejelow were married Nov. 10 at New World Symphony hall in Miami Beach. Shaun Donovan, who became a Universal Life minister for the occasion, officiated.Until 2017, Mrs. Niejelow, 34, worked as the adviser to Mr. Donovan who was the director of the White House Office of Management and Budget, and until 2014 was the special assistant to him while he was the secretary in the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development, both in Washington. She also worked on several political campaigns, including in 2008 as the deputy campaign manager in John Kerry's senate race in Boston, and from 2007 to 2008 as a field director in various states for Hillary Clinton's first presidential campaign. The bride graduated from Boston University.She is a daughter of Foula T. Kefalas and Thomas K. Kefalas of Somersworth, N.H., who own a restaurant in Rouses Point, N.Y., and in Sommersworth.Mr. Niejelow, 36, is the senior vice president for cybersecurity coordination and advocacy in New York at Mastercard. He graduated from Duke and the Durham Police Academy. He received a law degree from the University of Pennsylvania.He is the son of Judith Rodin and the stepson of Paul R. Verkuil of Miami Beach. The groom’s mother retired as the president of the Rockefeller Foundation in New York and as the president of the University of Pennsylvania. She is now an adviser for several start-up technology companies, and on several boards including the New World Symphony and the Alliance for Green Revolution in Africa, which is based in Nairobi, Kenya. His stepfather, a lawyer, and president emeritus of the College of William and Mary in Williamsburg, Va., is currently a legal consultant focusing on law and economic regulation. From 2010 to 2015, he was the chairman of the Administrative Conference of the United States in Washington.The couple met in April 2014 while working at the Obama White House. He was the director of cybersecurity on the National Security Council, as well as the chief of staff of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator. She was Mr. Donovan’s director in the Office of Management and Budget. The first digits Mr. Niejelow asked for from Ms. Kefalas were not her phone number, but her Social Security number so that the C.I.A. could run security clearance for classified documents he had to give her boss. The couple got into a good-natured tiff over who had higher security clearance, and a few days later Mr. Niejelow asked her to the White House Correspondents’ Association dinner.
Supported byBy Sheera Frenkel and Jonathan MartinSAN FRANCISCO — Update: The suspected hack of the Democratic National Committee’s voter database was a false alarm, D.N.C. officials said on Thursday, and the unusual activity that raised concern was merely a test. The updated article is here.The Democratic National Committee said Wednesday that it was alerted to an attempted hack of its voter database this week and that it had notified law enforcement.The effort to target the Democratic Party’s voter file, known as Votebuilder, was not successful, and a party official said the identities of the culprits were unclear. When the Democratic National Committee was hacked in 2016 during the presidential campaign, the incident was  traced to Russia.This week’s attempt was aggressive, two officials briefed on it said. The hackers set up a fake page that mimicked the party’s login page for its voter-registration website, a tactic that could gather names, passwords and other credentials of those using the voter database. The hackers also may have sent emails to people within the national committee to try to trick them into using the fake page, a tactic known as “spearphishing,” the officials said.The Federal Bureau of Investigation is looking into the incident, one of the officials said.“This attempt is further proof that there are constant threats as we head into midterm elections, and we must remain vigilant in order to prevent future attacks,” said Bob Lord, chief security officer for the Democratic National Committee. He called the voter file “the party’s most sensitive information.”The combination of this attack on the committee, continued influence operations by Russia and others using social media, and efforts to breach think tanks underscores that the cyber age has changed elections forever. So many systems are vulnerable to manipulation, from the voter-registration systems in the 50 states to the inner workings of the parties, that the opportunities for foreign and domestic manipulation are many.“The focus has gone from using the cyber realm to steal secrets to using it to impose national power,” Rob Joyce, the White House cybersecurity coordinator until the position was eliminated a few months ago, said this month at Defcon, an annual convention that focuses on hacking and defenses against it.Ahead of the midterms, political groups and government organizations have been on high alert for new hacks and foreign meddling. Microsoft said this week that it had detected that hackers tied to Russian intelligence targeted the Senate and conservative think tanks in the United States, also by creating fake websites.And after Facebook last month identified a political influence campaign aimed at potentially disrupting the midterms, the company said this week that it had uncovered other disinformation efforts targeting people around the world.On Sunday, John R. Bolton, the national security adviser, suggested that Russia was not the only threat in the November elections.“I can say definitively that it’s a sufficient national security concern about Chinese meddling, Iranian meddling and North Korean meddling that we’re taking steps to try and prevent it,” Mr. Bolton said in an interview with ABC.Many of the hacking attempts are mimicking the techniques that were used to penetrate the Democratic National Committee in 2016. At the time, Russian state-backed hackers used trick emails to take senior party officials, including Hillary Clinton’s campaign chairman, John D. Podesta, to a page that looked identical to a password screen for Google’s email service, Gmail. In fact, the page gave attackers access to the officials’ accounts.Many of the warnings the national committee received several years ago about potential attacks either were ignored or did not reach the right individuals.Since then, the committee has taken steps to improve its cybersecurity. This year, it hired Mr. Lord, who previously held top technology roles at Yahoo and Twitter, and Raffi Krikorian, a former Uber executive, as its chief technology officer.The party’s team has put new security practices into place and begun testing employees in spearphishing drills to see if they will click on the malicious emails. The national committee has also improved its cooperation with the F.B.I., according to law enforcement officials.The Votebuilder database is a particular prize for hackers because it contains personal details on Democratic voters that could be used to unlock other information, including personal email accounts and files. A successful penetration of the database could have set off other hacks in a domino effect, cybersecurity experts said.A cybersecurity researcher from a firm called Lookout contacted the Democratic National Committee on Tuesday about the attempted intrusion, the two officials briefed on the matter said. Lookout confirmed that it had been in touch with the committee, and the attempt was also detected by DigitalOcean, a cloud service provider. CNN earlier reported the new hacking attempt.Lookout first detected the fake website late Monday, using a newly built artificial intelligence system that spots fake sites as they are created, said Mike Murray, the company’s vice president of security intelligence.“We realized the significance,” he said. “Within hours, we started waking up people to get them on the phone.”Because the website was caught so quickly, it is impossible to know who the hackers were or how they planned to use the site, Mr. Murray said. Such attacks are easy, he said, because anyone with decent programming skills can make a fake website in a few hours.“The adversaries are becoming more sophisticated in how they use these websites, but the attack is the same,” he said.Mr. Lord said the White House also needed to get involved to improve cyberdefenses.“These threats are serious, and that’s why it’s critical that we all work together, but we can’t do this alone,” he said. “We need the administration to take more aggressive steps to protect our voting systems.”The attempted hack was revealed as the Department of Homeland Security’s cybersecurity division hailed its efforts to protect the nation’s election systems from foreign intrusions.During a tour of the agency’s National Cybersecurity and Communications Integration Center near Washington on Wednesday, Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, and Christopher C. Krebs, her top deputy for cybersecurity, said the department was more prepared than it had been during the 2016 elections.“We are better positioned than at any time in history,” Ms. Nielsen said, standing before a bank of computers and giant monitors showing real-time threats to the nation’s cyber and physical infrastructure.An earlier version of this article misstated what cybersecurity officials said about hackers’ efforts to gain access to the Democratic National Committee’s voter database. The officials said the hackers may have sent so-called spearphishing emails to D.N.C. officials, not that they did send such emails.Follow Sheera Frenkel and Jonathan Martin on Twitter: @sheeraf and @jmartNYT.Sheera Frenkel reported from San Francisco, and Jonathan Martin from Washington. David E. Sanger contributed reporting from Sydney, Australia, and Ron Nixon from Washington.Interested in All Things Tech?  Get the Bits newsletter delivered to your inbox weekly for the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.
Supported byBy Nicole PerlrothSAN FRANCISCO — The Democratic National Committee believes it was targeted in a hacking attempt by a Russian group in the weeks after the midterm elections last year, according to court documents filed late Thursday.On Nov. 14, the documents say, dozens of D.N.C. email addresses were on the receiving end of a so-called spearphishing campaign by one of two Russian organizations believed to be responsible for hacking into the committee’s computers during the 2016 presidential race. There is no evidence that the most recent attack was successful.The documents, filed in federal court in New York, were part of an amended complaint in a lawsuit filed in April that claimed the committee was the victim of a conspiracy by Russian intelligence agents, President Trump’s 2016 campaign and WikiLeaks to damage Hillary Clinton’s presidential run.The new court filings say the time stamps and contents of the spearphishing emails received in November were consistent with separate cyberattacks around the same time tied to the Russian hacking group known as Cozy Bear, one of the two Russian groups suspected of breaching D.N.C. computers in 2016.Security researchers believe the hacking attempt against the D.N.C. in November was part of a broader campaign that used decoy emails that appeared to come from the State Department.That campaign had more than a dozen targets, including government agencies, think tanks, law enforcement officials, journalists, military personnel, defense contractors, pharmaceutical companies and transportation officials, according to a report by the cybersecurity firm FireEye. Researchers believe the goal was to ferret out American foreign policy, particularly related to Africa; Democratic policy positions; and the platforms of 2020 Democratic presidential hopefuls.FireEye said the attempted hacking of the D.N.C. in November resembled other recent attacks attributed to Cozy Bear, including in its “deliberate reuse” of old phishing tactics and reliance on a similar list of victims. But there were a few new wrinkles, including new decoy email addresses and different obfuscation techniques.The hackers sent some targets of the broader campaign three phishing emails at most. In other instances, they were more aggressive, sending as many as 136 emails to a single organization. In some cases, the malware-laced emails were successful. And once they gained access to a computer network, it was only a matter of hours before they were deploying stealthier hacking tools.The attackers in November compromised a hospital email server to launch their phishing emails, a common tactic of the Cozy Bear group, said Nick Carr, a senior manager at FireEye.Cozy Bear hackers are skilled at rummaging through a network without drawing attention, said Matthew Dunwoody, a FireEye security researcher. Once in, they often swap out their phishing tools for malware that can be hard to detect, he said.FireEye said that although Cozy Bear was the likeliest culprit, the firm could not firmly establish who was responsible for the 2018 campaign against the D.N.C. and other targets. CrowdStrike, another cybersecurity firm, also noted an uptick in hacking activity in November, but it could not say definitively that Cozy Bear was to blame.Cozy Bear, also known by security firms as APT 29 or the Dukes, was one of two Russian groups involved in the 2016 hacking of the D.N.C. It has not attracted the same scrutiny as the other group, Fancy Bear, or APT 28, which has been linked to a string of cyberattacks against the D.N.C., the International Olympic Committee and other international organizations.Cozy Bear has been active since 2016, security researchers say, and has been linked to a coordinated wave of hacking attacks on Democratic Party officials.The D.N.C. says in the amended complaint that the November campaign was consistent with a continuing push by Russian hackers to target Democratic candidates and party leaders. In 2017, Russian hackers are believed to have attempted a hack of the computer network of former Senator Claire McCaskill of Missouri and the networks of at least two other candidates in the midterm elections.Mr. Trump has long denied any collusion with Russia, and in December several defendants named in the D.N.C.’s lawsuit argued that it should be dismissed because the committee was using it to try to “explain away” the Democratic “candidate’s defeat in the 2016 presidential campaign.”On Friday, Geoffrey A. Graber, a D.N.C. lawyer, said the committee expected defendants named in the case to file another motion for dismissal soon.The Russian government has consistently denied hacking the D.N.C. In a “statement of immunity” from Russia’s Ministry of Justice, Russian authorities argued that even if it were responsible for the hacking, such a “sovereign act” would be considered a “military action” protected by a 1976 law that offers some immunity from lawsuits regarding foreign governments’ actions in the United States.Follow Nicole Perlroth on Twitter: @nicoleperlroth.Sheera Frenkel contributed reporting.
Supported byBy Daniel VictorTo Rudolph W. Giuliani, the former New York mayor who is one of President Trump’s lawyers, it was an example of how low Twitter would stoop to carry out its anti-Trump agenda.It was, decidedly, no such thing. It was just a typo, followed by an opportunistic prank by an improv actor in Atlanta.In a tweet on Tuesday, Mr. Giuliani said the social network had “allowed someone to invade my text with a disgusting anti-President message.” He was referring to a Nov. 30 tweet in which Mr. Giuliani — by failing to put a space after a period, and starting the next sentence with the word “In” — had inadvertently created a hyperlink.Mueller filed an indictment just as the President left for https://t.co/8ZNrQ6X29a July he indicted the Russians who will never come here just before he left for Helsinki.Either could have been done earlier or later. Out of control!Supervision please?G-20.In is a real domain name, but it hadn’t been used before Mr. Giuliani tweeted it. Twitter automatically converts such valid links into blue, clickable text.When Jason Velazquez, 37, who owns a web design firm in Atlanta, saw the tweet, he immediately bought the domain for about $5. He then created a page with a simple message, which anyone who clicked on Mr. Giuliani’s accidental link would see: “Donald J. Trump is a traitor to our country.” The whole process took him about 15 minutes, Mr. Velazquez said on Tuesday.It was the type of throwaway gag that entertains Twitter users for a few hours before forever fading from memory. But Mr. Giuliani preserved it in amber by following up Tuesday with the baseless accusation against Twitter, which has often been the subject of bias complaints from Republicans. He characterized it as evidence that Twitter employees were “cardcarrying anti-Trumpers.”A Twitter spokesman said “the accusation that we’re artificially injecting something into a tweet is completely false.” The company does not have the ability to edit users’ tweets, he said.As to Mr. Giuliani’s argument that the second “period no space” instance in his original tweet didn’t create a similar link, that’s because Helsinki.Either, so far, is not a working domain.Many Twitter users couldn’t resist noting that Mr. Giuliani, who spent 16 years as a security consultant, was originally brought into the Trump administration as a cybersecurity adviser. (He certainly has more digital know-how than Japan’s cybersecurity chief, who recently admitted that he doesn’t use computers.)It’s not uncommon for political figures to display a lack of understanding regarding the machinery of the internet. Ted Stevens, a former senator from Alaska, was roundly mocked in 2006 when he described the internet as “a series of tubes.”[Sign up for the Morning Briefing newsletter for a look at what you need to know to begin your day.]Nor is it the first time politicians have run into issues related to domain names. Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, for example, doesn’t own the www.TedCruz.com domain, which led to the site displaying a pro-Hillary Clinton message shortly after he dropped out of the presidential race in 2016.Mr. Velazquez said he’d had little time to carry out his mischief last week. He saw Mr. Giuliani’s tweet at 6:20 p.m. and had to act in an improv show at 7 p.m.He was at another improv show on Tuesday when he saw Mr. Giuliani’s follow-up. He said he was bewildered.“He could have deleted it and everyone would have forgotten about it, my tweet would have stopped going viral,” he said. “Instead he tweeted about it and created a conspiracy theory against Twitter.”
Supported byBy Andrew E. KramerMOSCOW — Before United States prosecutors accused him of having orchestrated one of the largest computer thefts, Dmitry A. Dokuchaev’s legal problems were deepening in Russia, where he was once known by the hacker alias Forb and specialized in purloining credit card numbers.Mr. Dokuchaev, a stocky 33-year-old who appears on an F.B.I. “wanted” poster wearing a blue suit and with a mop of sandy hair, is emerging as a central figure in fraught relations between the United States and Russia on cybersecurity issues.Those relations went into a deep chill in December, when the Obama administration accused Russian intelligence agencies of having meddled in the 2016 election by hacking computers of the Democratic National Committee to help Donald J. Trump win.Mr. Dokuchaev, a hacker-turned-security-officer in Russia, is a villain in the narratives of both countries about this conflict, for different reasons.The Russians have accused him of becoming a double agent for the United States. The American authorities say he doubled as a cybercriminal while working for Russia’s Federal Security Service, or F.S.B., the main security and intelligence agency in the country.Mr. Dokuchaev, who was arrested four months ago in Russia, is accused of treason, punishable by 20 years imprisonment, on suspicion of having passed information to the United States.While the precise nature of that information is unclear, signs have emerged that it may be related, at least indirectly, to the American accusations of electoral hacking.On Wednesday, federal prosecutors in Washington and San Francisco announced an indictment identifying Mr. Dokuchaev as one of the defendants in the theft of half a billion Yahoo accounts.“He’s a guy without many options,” said Pavel Vrublevsky, a computer entrepreneur and owner of an online payment processing company in Russia who was investigated in 2011 by Mr. Dokuchaev when he worked as an F.S.B. officer.The Kremlin on Thursday denied ties to criminal hacking. “We have repeatedly stated that there can be absolutely no question of any official agency, including the F.S.B., in any unlawful actions in cyberspace,” said Dmitri S. Peskov, the Kremlin spokesman.Mr. Dokuchaev was arrested in December along with another officer in the Center for Information Security, the cyberintelligence wing of the F.S.B. The Russian authorities have offered no details of the charges, but Novaya Gazeta, a Russian newspaper, reported they had been arrested in an investigation into leaks that had led the F.B.I. to Russian servers linked to electoral hacking.Regardless of the details, the Russian and American cases portend a bleak future for Mr. Dokuchaev, whose career encapsulates ties between criminal hackers and the security services in post-Soviet Russia.By his own account, he once went by the hacker nickname Forb. According to a 2004 interview he gave to Vedomosti, a Russian newspaper, Mr. Dokuchaev, then 20, worked from home in the provincial city of Yekaterinburg, taking orders from anonymous clients to crash websites and steal passwords.“I always believed that information should be free,” he told the newspaper. He also said carding, the online theft of credit card numbers, was the most profitable activity for Russian hackers, up to $30,000 a month, but was “the most dangerous cybercrime, punished mercilessly.”Vitali Kremez, director of research at Flashpoint, a cybersecurity company in New York that monitors underground hacking forums, said that until a few years ago, Mr. Dokuchaev had been actively involved in the world of stolen credit cards.On those forums, Mr. Dokuchaev inquired about buying skimmers, devices that allow thieves to steal credit card numbers as the cards are swiped. He also sought to buy encoders, used to transfer stolen card numbers onto new plastic cards.In January, RBC, a Russian newspaper, reported that Mr. Dokuchaev’s prosecution for credit card fraud had been averted when he agreed to work for the F.S.B.The evolution of a hacker into an F.S.B. officer was all but an open secret in Moscow. Until at least 2011, Mr. Dokuchaev was an editor of a Russian magazine titled Hacker, and he edited a section known as “Breaking In” under the byline Dmitry “Forb” Dokuchaev.By 2010, Mr. Dokuchaev was already working for the F.S.B.’s Center for Information Security and aiding the prosecution of hackers accused of crashing the online payment system of Aeroflot airlines, according to Mr. Vrublevsky, who was a defendant in that case.At the time, Russia was under diplomatic pressure from the United States and Canada to prosecute Mr. Vrublevsky on an unrelated charge of selling counterfeit Viagra pills to Americans through websites. Mr. Vrublevsky has denied ties to that scheme.In the indictment unsealed on Wednesday, the United States authorities indicated that Mr. Dokuchaev’s group also had dabbled in spam marketing for erectile dysfunction drugs.The American indictment contains no indication Mr. Dokuchaev played any role in Russian electoral hacking. But it identified him as having overseen the work of one of three others named in the indictment, a suspected cybercriminal, Aleksei Belan, whom the Obama administration had sanctioned in December after the United States intelligence agencies concluded Russia had tried to meddle in the election.Mr. Vrublevsky said he believed the treason arrests that halted Mr. Dokuchaev’s career had been related to the Aeroflot case and other events predating the presidential election.Amid diplomatic pressure from the United States and Canada to shut down the Viagra scheme, Mr. Vrublevsky said, Mr. Dokuchaev and a colleague had passed information about Russian hackers to the United States, later deemed treasonous.The information included data on payments through WebMoney, a Russian version of PayPal, used later by American law enforcement investigators to follow the trail to Russian hackers, Mr. Vrublevsky said.That data, he said, sharpened the Americans’ understanding of Russian hacking, which later aided the investigation of electoral hacking during the campaign.“America calling him a cybercriminal doesn’t rule out his being a spy as well,” Mr. Vrublevsky said.Follow Andrew E. Kramer on Twitter @AndrewKramerNYT. Vindu Goel contributed reporting from San Francisco.
Supported byBy Oleg MatsnevMOSCOW — Russia took a step toward government control over the internet on Thursday, as lawmakers approved a bill that freedom of information advocates worry will open the door to sweeping censorship.The legislation is designed to route web traffic through filters controlled by Roskomnadzor, the state communications watchdog, increasing its power to control information and block messaging or other applications.It also provides for Russia to create its own system of domain names that would allow the internet to continue operating within the country, even if it were cut off from the global web.The bill’s goal, according to its authors, is to “ensure a stable, secure and seamless” internet. Advocates hailed it as an important step toward an independent Russian internet, not reliant on traffic routed through other countries.They say that change is more necessary than ever, given the threat from terrorism and stringent cybersecurity policies adopted by the United States last year.The vote on Thursday in the lower house of Parliament — the second of three before the bill moves on to the upper house and then to President Vladimir V. Putin — was 320 to 15. The fact that 15 legislators opposed it, in an assembly where the Kremlin controls virtually all votes, was a sign of some unease.Civil society advocates say that the legislation allows a single government agency to accumulate unchecked powers over the internet. They fear that Russia, where the internet has been a last bastion of free speech as the government has shuttered independent news organizations, is now tipping toward the more tightly controlled Chinese model.“This is direct censorship,” said Filipp Kulin, co-founder of Usher II, an online project to monitor the scope of state-sponsored website blocking in Russia.There is still a legal framework restraining the Russian government that does not exist in China, where the “Chinese firewall” blocks many Western websites and other applications. Still, Russia is drifting toward that model, he said, in that those legal constraints are being increasingly ignored, and the latest bill would reduce public control over Roskomnadzor.Leonid Levin, the head of the communications policy committee in the lower house, said in a floor speech that the legislation had nothing to do with the Chinese model.Critics and even the Russian government itself have complained that the bill was too vague about the type of threats it was meant to address. They also pointed out that centralizing the system makes it much more vulnerable if something goes wrong.The bill comes a year after the government tried and failed to shut down Telegram, the popular encrypted messaging app once used even by the Kremlin to communicate with the press. The company, founded by a Russian entrepreneur who emigrated, refused to hand over to the government encryption keys, despite a court order.Roskomnadzor’s attempts to shut down Telegram by blocking entire sections of the web resulted in all sorts of other sites being inaccessible — online stores, service records for a Volvo service center, even the Kremlin museum’s ticket sales. The new law is expected to target specific applications with greater ease.The bill is expected to receive final approval before the end of the month. Once signed into law by Mr. Putin, the bulk of it will go into effect on Nov. 1.
Supported byNonfictionWhen you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.By Matt ApuzzoBREAKING AND ENTERING The Extraordinary Story of a Hacker Called Alien By Jeremy N. Smith 292 pp. Houghton Mifflin Harcourt. $28.When the F.B.I. warned the Democratic National Committee that hackers had broken into its system before the 2016 elections, the help desk dismissed it as a potential prank call. And when the Russians used a phony Google alert to try to snatch the email password from Hillary Clinton’s campaign chairman, the I.T. guy incorrectly said the warning was legitimate.In “Breaking and Entering: The Extraordinary Story of a Hacker Called ‘Alien,’” Jeremy N. Smith tells a tale of computer intrigue, but not through the eyes of the black hats whose misdeeds have dominated recent political news. Instead, Smith wants you to meet the people behind the help desk — the tech gurus and security consultants standing between us and digital carnage.With his 1989 best seller “The Cuckoo’s Egg,” the author Clifford Stoll demonstrated that the lowly computer technician can make a wonderful hero. He described tracking Russian spies across networks and solving an espionage mystery of the early internet era. Without such a singular case to crack, however, Smith must rely on the career trajectory of a cybersecurity expert to propel the story.That’s a lot to ask. When someone from your I.T. department sends an email telling you to change your password, does anyone stop and think, “I bet that guy has an interesting story!” Smith addresses this problem head-on, making clear at the onset that we are not talking about just any computer geek. We meet our leather-clad hero — a woman nicknamed Alien who runs a boutique cybersecurity firm — as she swaggers through a Las Vegas hacking conference. And Smith poses the story’s central question: How did she get to be such a badass?Despite the book’s subtitle, however, the answer turns out to be more predictable than extraordinary. Alien studied computer science at M.I.T. and parlayed a connection there into a job at Los Alamos National Laboratory, which launched her into the information security world.Further complicating things, Smith gives every character and company a pseudonym and changes the locations of key events. We are told this is to protect their privacy, but the effect is that Alien, on whom so much is riding, feels distant. This distance is compounded by the fact that “Breaking and Entering” includes long stretches of dialogue and precise details from decades-old events. When you never quite know how much about a character is fictionalized, such precision can make the scenes feel reimagined.Smith’s writing style, though, is crisp as he charts the course of Alien’s life in a series of vignettes, from uncertain undergraduate to successful business owner. The structure works because Smith is a lively storyteller. We are in capable hands as Alien tests corporate security by crafting phishing emails and schmoozing her way into executive suites to steal computers.But the format is also restrictive. Alien came of age during the birth of the modern information security age, and at times I wished we could have stepped back a bit from her story to see the bigger picture. Instead, tethered to Alien, we can see only as far as she can in the moment.For instance, Alien experiences several gut-punch reminders that she is a woman in a male-dominated industry. She is saddled with administrative tasks. A male peer introduces her as a “junior consultant.” And a roomful of men eye her with curiosity at a conference. These moments cry out for a pause, some context, a bit of reflection on the security industry in the #MeToo moment. But instead we are whisked off to the next vignette.The story offers just enough technological details to establish its bona fides without slowing its pace. It is a difficult balance. Alien’s social-engineering techniques have been detailed in books by and about the hacker Kevin Mitnick and elsewhere, and will come as no surprise to tech-savvy or security-conscious readers. More casual readers will get an introduction to that world, but not a guide to help them understand it.Which is a shame, since the real Alien — she is easily identifiable if one is so inclined — has a well-earned reputation as an expert in her field. Her work is taught at universities, bar associations and the world’s top conferences. She is, as Smith set out to show, a security badass. Yet we hear very little from her in the present. The focus on how she got there is interesting, and at times quite fun, but it comes at the expense of the wisdom she acquired on the journey.If there’s one lesson to be learned from Alien’s story, it is this: As Russian hackers challenge democracies and criminal attacks turn our personal data into commodities, we cannot turn to technology to save us. Security is only as strong as the employee who tapes his passwords to his cubicle, the overworked guard at the front desk and, yes, the person on the other end of the line when you call the help desk.Matt Apuzzo, an international investigative correspondent for The Times, is the co-author of “Enemies Within: Inside the NYPD’s Secret Spying Unit and Bin Laden’s Final Plot Against America.”
Supported byBy Adam Satariano and Raymond ZhongLONDON — When new employees join Huawei, they are given books about the Chinese telecommunications company’s achievements. One featured accomplishment is how the company has thrived in Europe.A chapter in one of the books describes the hard work of Huawei employees to win over European telecom providers and sell them equipment that forms the backbone of mobile wireless networks. It says little about how the company has also subtly lobbied, promised jobs and made research investments to ingratiate itself with European governments over the last 15 years.In Britain, for example, Huawei set up a special corporate board, led by John Browne, a former chief executive of the oil giant BP. It donated to schools, including Cambridge University; held parties for political leaders; and sponsored prominent charities like the Prince’s Trust, founded by Prince Charles. In Germany, Huawei opened facilities to conduct research on new innovations and sponsored events, including the recent convention of Germany’s governing Christian Democratic Union party.European governments have been welcoming. Last year, after Huawei announced a five-year commitment to spend 3 billion pounds, or about $3.8 billion, to expand in Britain, where the company employs 1,500 workers, Prime Minister Theresa May met in Beijing with Sun Yafang, Huawei’s chairwoman. Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany posed for pictures at the company’s booth at a trade show last year.Yet despite the careful cultivation, Huawei’s position in Europe is now at risk of unraveling. The United States has moved to restrict the use of Chinese technology because of concerns that it is being used for espionage. Last month, the American authorities asked Canada to detain a Huawei executive, who is the daughter of the company’s founder, on charges of committing bank fraud to help the company’s business in Iran. And federal prosecutors in Seattle are also investigating Huawei for intellectual property theft.[Read More: The United States plans to formally make its extradition request within a week.]The fallout is growing across Europe, which has become Huawei’s biggest market outside China, foreshadowing what the company faces in the rest of the world. This month, one of its employees was arrested in Poland and charged with espionage.Officials in Germany, France and the Czech Republic are now among those considering restricting Huawei from the next-generation wireless networks, known as 5G. The head of Britain’s intelligence service, MI6, has raised alarms about using Chinese networking technology. European carriers, including Deutsche Telekom, are reassessing their use of Huawei. And on Thursday, Oxford University announced that it would suspend donations and scholarships from Huawei.“Until there were red flags on security risks, it was smooth sailing for them in Europe,” Thorsten Benner, a founder and director of the Global Public Policy Institute, a policy think tank in Berlin, said of Huawei. “The movement that you’ve seen over the past three months is all in one direction: to find regulatory measures to curtail the use of Chinese equipment in Europe.”Heli Tiirmaa-Klaar, an Estonian diplomat involved in cybersecurity discussions with American and European officials about Huawei, said Europe was shifting on Huawei because of suspicions about China rather than specific actions by the company. She highlighted China’s history of hacking and stealing trade secrets, its poor record on human rights and internet censorship, and Chinese cybersecurity rules that could require network operators to defend national security interests.“The Chinese are increasingly departing from the common vision that we’ve had at the U.N. level about what are cybernorms and how we follow international law in cyberspace,” she said. “They have no willingness to play along in this space.”Huawei (pronounced “HWA-way”) has steadfastly denied wrongdoing. In a statement, the company said it had “established strong relations with customers, suppliers and governments across Europe, where cybersecurity has been our top priority.” It added that its growth in Europe was the result of its strong track record, not lobbying. Interacting with government officials is common among large corporations, Huawei said.For European countries, disentangling from Huawei won’t be easy. Its equipment is a crucial part of wireless infrastructure in Europe, and the company has spent hundreds of millions of dollars on 5G research, opening testing hubs in Britain, Germany and Poland. The company has said countries that ban Huawei, like the United States, risk delaying construction of the new hyperfast network.Huawei, based in Shenzhen, China, entered Europe in 2001 but struggled to gain a foothold. It kept pushing because it wanted to expand internationally. The European market became even more important after the company was mostly shut out of the United States in 2012 over security concerns.At one point in 2004, Huawei was so eager to woo European customers that it outfitted a shipping container with its wireless equipment and parked it in front of the headquarters of phone carriers in Germany. The marketing stunt was intended to get employees of those carriers to stop and look.“A lot of them said, ‘Who are you?’” said Stefan Scheuerle, a former Huawei sales manager in Europe who is now chief revenue officer at Sensorberg, a German tech company.In a breakthrough, Huawei struck a deal to provide equipment to BT Group, the British telecom giant, in 2005. To prepare its bid for the BT project, Huawei moved about 100 Chinese workers to hastily rented apartments outside London, according to “Growing Up in a Hail of Gunfire,” a collection of essays used as training material for new hires. The employees often worked until 3 or 4 a.m., and because they didn’t have credit cards, they had to use wads of cash to buy groceries.In 2005, Huawei also secured a deal with the European carrier Vodafone to sell about $1 million of gear. Even so, Mr. Scheuerle said, he was quickly given a new goal: Sell Vodafone $1 billion of equipment within three years. Huawei soon opened an office within steps of Vodafone’s complex in Düsseldorf, Germany.“When I left less than three years later, we were at $850 million — we were almost there,” Mr. Scheuerle said.Huawei moved other employees from China to help in Europe, and hired many non-Chinese employees. It was a jarring cultural change for newcomers unfamiliar with Huawei’s blunt management style; Mr. Scheuerle said staff emails criticized people by name for unsatisfactory work.Mr. Scheuerle held workshops for new employees to help them adapt to the company. He advised them to befriend Chinese colleagues with better knowledge of what was happening at Huawei headquarters in Shenzhen.Today, 12,000 of Huawei’s 180,000 employees are in Europe, up from 7,300 in 2013. The company has vowed to hire nearly 3,000 more by next year. In 2017, it earned more than $20 billion in revenue in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, roughly a quarter of its total business.Even when American officials warned allies of Huawei’s risks, the company largely deflected the concerns. It opened a testing center where British officials inspected its products. It opened 23 research and development facilities in 14 European countries, and supported work at more than 150 universities. The company also hosts government officials and business leaders from Europe at its Shenzhen headquarters.In 2011, Huawei created the board to oversee operations in Britain. In reality, the group has a limited view of Huawei’s inner workings and few responsibilities beyond quarterly meetings and attending some corporate events such as annual summer and winter parties, two people familiar with its activities said.Huawei said the board had legal responsibilities of directors overseeing compliance with laws, health and safety, and potential abuses of power.Now, as criticism mounts, Huawei is meeting with customers and government officials to assuage concerns. This includes allowing German officials to inspect its engineering and code.Next month at the mobile tech conference MWC Barcelona, formerly the Mobile World Congress, Huawei plans to announce new handsets and provide an update of its 5G plans. A new advertising campaign is also in the works, the company said.Follow Adam Satariano and Raymond Zhong on Twitter: @satariano and @zhonggg.Adam Satariano reported from London, and Raymond Zhong from Hong Kong.U.S. Seeks ExtraditionCanada’s arrest of Meng Wanzhou of Huawei has set off a diplomatic crisis with China. Page B4.
Supported byBy Mike IvesA prominent Vietnamese historian who criticized his government for not doing more to challenge Beijing’s territorial claims in the South China Sea has been ousted from Vietnam’s ruling Communist Party over comments he made on Facebook.The political purge of Tran Duc Anh Son, an expert on Vietnam’s claims in the South China Sea, is a rare window into how the party handles dissent among its rank-and-file members. It may also underline the sensitivities around Vietnam’s handling of its relationship with China, its largest trading partner and former imperial occupier.Vietnam’s state-run news media reported last week that Dr. Son, who is in his early 50s and worked for years at a state-run research institute in the central city of Danang, was expelled for posting false information and violating a code that governs party members’ behavior.“I knew this day would come,” Dr. Son said in an interview over a messaging service. He closed his Facebook account this week, saying he needed more time to work on book projects and transition to a new job as the director of a publishing house.Dr. Son said the Facebook comment that got him in the most trouble was a short question he posed last September under a cartoon that obliquely criticized the government.A character in the cartoon said: “Seventy-three years ago they corralled people to a rally to listen to the Declaration of Independence. Seventy-three years later they forbid people to gather to celebrate Independence Day.”That was an apparent reference to a famous 1945 speech by Ho Chi Minh in which the future Vietnamese president declared his country’s independence from France, and an oblique criticism of the Communist Party’s current leaders, who have escalated repression of political dissidents.Dr. Son said the question he wrote underneath the cartoon — “Is this true?” — prompted a monthslong investigation by Danang’s Communist Party Central Committee.He said he was also investigated for a Facebook comment — “How have things become this bad?” — that he left under a post featuring two articles in the state-run news media about the country’s education minister.Even though many Vietnamese have low opinions of the Communist Party, its members generally avoid criticizing it for fear of repercussions that would affect their livelihoods, said Mai Thanh Son, a senior researcher at the state-affiliated Institute of Social Sciences in central Vietnam.“The expulsion of Tran Duc Anh Son is a thoughtless decision,” he said. “It’s like releasing a tiger into the forest, and it contributes to stripping away the cowardly face of the ruling apparatus that the party represents.”In January, a cybersecurity law took effect in Vietnam that requires technology companies with users there to set up offices and store data in the country, and disclose user data to the authorities without a court order. Human rights advocates say Vietnam’s new cybersecurity law was meant to let the government better surveil its critics on Facebook, the country’s most popular social media platform.Facebook declined to comment on the record about Dr. Son’s account.The Foreign Ministry did not respond to emailed questions about Dr. Son’s expulsion from the party, including whether his criticism of Vietnam’s South China Sea policies had played a role.Vietnam has clashed repeatedly at sea with China, which claims most of the waterway as its own. Notably, in 2014 a state-owned Chinese oil company towed an oil rig to waters near Danang, provoking a tense maritime standoff and anti-Chinese riots at several Vietnamese industrial parks. The Communist Party likely fears a repeat of such anti-China-fueled Vietnamese nationalism, partly because some critics question why the government does not take a harder line against Beijing.Chinese officials and scholars seek to justify Beijing’s claim to sovereignty over South China Sea waters that encircle the disputed Paracel and Spratly archipelagos by citing maps and other evidence from the 1940s and ’50s.But Dr. Son and other Vietnamese historians argue that the Nguyen dynasty, which ruled present-day Vietnam from 1802 to 1945, wielded clear administrative control over the Paracels, decades before imperial or post-revolutionary China showed any interest in them.Dr. Son is a former director of a fine arts museum in Hue, Vietnam’s imperial capital, and a specialist in Nguyen-era porcelain. He developed an interest in Vietnam’s territorial claims as a student poking around archives of old maps and documents.In 2009, officials in Danang asked him to pursue his research on Vietnam’s maritime claims on the government’s behalf. He subsequently spent years traveling the world in search of material, including as a Fulbright scholar at Yale University.Dr. Son has said the historical evidence of Vietnam’s maritime claims is so irrefutable that the government should mount a legal challenge to China’s activities in waters around some of the sea’s disputed islands, as the Philippines successfully did in a case that ended in 2016.“I’m always against the Chinese,” he told The New York Times during an interview in 2017. But he said at the time that Vietnam’s top leaders were “slaves” to Beijing who preferred to keep the old maps and other documents hidden.“They always say to me, ‘Mr. Son, please keep calm,’” he said. “‘Don’t talk badly about China.’”The city of Danang, where Dr. Son lives and works, once had a reputation for its powerful, family-based networks that were willing to ignore dictates from the central government, said Bill Hayton, an author of books about Vietnam and the South China Sea and an associate fellow at Chatham House, a research institute based in London.But Mr. Hayton noted that Vietnam’s current leadership, led by the Communist Party’s general secretary, Nguyen Phu Trong, has lately disciplined some key Danang political figures, including firing Nguyen Xuan Anh, the head of the city’s Communist Party Central Committee.Even though Danang officials presumably supported and financed Dr. Son’s research, he added, “the current Vietnamese leadership does not want to rock the boat with Beijing and seems determined to keep a lid on criticism of China’s actions in the South China Sea.”Chau Doan contributed reporting.
Supported byEvita Almassi and Christopher Brian Main were married Aug. 25 in Redmond, Wash. The Rev. Mary Calhoun, a minister of the interfaith Church of Divine Grace, officiated at DeLille Cellars, a winery.Ms. Almassi, 30, is a digital marketing and communications manager at the National Women’s Health Network, a consumer group in Washington. She graduated and received a master’s degree in social work from the University of Washington.She is a daughter of Bita Almassi and Ardeshir Almassi of Medina, Wash. The bride’s father is the owner of Quality Auto Center, a used-car dealership in Lynwood, Wash. Her mother retired as an information systems analyst at the Virginia Mason Hospital and Seattle Medical Center, which is in Seattle.Mr. Main, 31, is a senior cybersecurity analyst in the McLean, Va., office of Splunk, a data analytics company. He graduated from the University of Maryland and received a master’s degree in cybersecurity from the Adelphi campus of the University of Maryland.He is a son of Bruce K. Main of Germantown, Md., and the late Margaret Hanford Main. The groom’s father retired as the operations manager at M&amp;M Professional Landscaping Company in Sterling, Va. The groom is also a stepson of Karen L. Main, a federal security compliance officer in the Washington office of KPMG, the auditing and professional services company.The couple met in 2014 through the dating website OkCupid, and had their first date in Washington.
Supported byBy Nicole PerlrothSAN FRANCISCO — Businesses and government agencies in the United States have been targeted in aggressive attacks by Iranian and Chinese hackers who security experts believe have been energized by President Trump’s withdrawal from the Iran nuclear deal last year and his trade conflicts with China.Recent Iranian attacks on American banks, businesses and government agencies have been more extensive than previously reported. Dozens of corporations and multiple United States agencies have been hit, according to seven people briefed on the episodes who were not authorized to discuss them publicly.The attacks, attributed to Iran by analysts at the National Security Agency and the private security firm FireEye, prompted an emergency order by the Department of Homeland Security during the government shutdown last month.The Iranian attacks coincide with a renewed Chinese offensive geared toward stealing trade and military secrets from American military contractors and technology companies, according to nine intelligence officials, private security researchers and lawyers familiar with the attacks who discussed them on the condition of anonymity because of confidentiality agreements.A summary of an intelligence briefing read to The New York Times said that Boeing, General Electric Aviation and T-Mobile were among the recent targets of Chinese industrial-espionage efforts. The companies all declined to discuss the threats, and it is not clear if any of the hacks were successful.Chinese cyberespionage cooled four years ago after President Barack Obama and President Xi Jinping of China reached a landmark deal to stop hacks meant to steal trade secrets.But the 2015 agreement appears to have been unofficially canceled amid the continuing trade tension between the United States and China, the intelligence officials and private security researchers said. Chinese hacks have returned to earlier levels, although they are now stealthier and more sophisticated.“Cyber is one of the ways adversaries can attack us and retaliate in effective and nasty ways that are well below the threshold of an armed attack or laws of war,” said Joel Brenner, a former leader of United States counterintelligence under the director of national intelligence.Federal agencies and private companies are back to where they were five years ago: battling increasingly sophisticated, government-affiliated hackers from China and Iran — in addition to fighting constant efforts out of Russia — who hope to steal trade and military secrets and sow mayhem. And it appears the hackers substantially improved their skills during the lull.Russia is still considered America’s foremost hacking adversary. In addition to meddling widely and spreading disinformation during United States elections, Russian hackers are believed to have launched attacks on nuclear plants, the electrical grid and other targets.Threats from China and Iran never stopped entirely, but Iranian hackers became much less active after the nuclear deal was signed in 2015. And for about 18 months, intelligence officials concluded, Beijing backed off its 10-year online effort to steal trade secrets.But Chinese hackers have resumed carrying out commercially motivated attacks, security researchers and data-protection lawyers said. A priority for the hackers, researchers said, is supporting Beijing’s five-year economic plan, which is meant to make China a leader in artificial intelligence and other cutting-edge technologies.“Some of the recent intelligence collection has been for military purposes or preparing for some future cyber conflict, but a lot of the recent theft is driven by the demands of the five-year plan and other technology strategies,” said Adam Segal, the director of the cyberspace program at the Council on Foreign Relations. “They always intended on coming back.”Officials at the Chinese embassy in Washington did not respond to a request for comment.Mr. Segal and other Chinese security experts said attacks that once would have been conducted by hackers in China’s People’s Liberation Army are now being run by China’s Ministry of State Security.These hackers are better at covering their tracks. Rather than going at targets directly, they have used a side door of sorts by breaking into the networks of the targets’ suppliers. They have also avoided using malware commonly attributed to China, relying instead on encrypting traffic, erasing server logs and other obfuscation tactics.“The fingerprint of Chinese operations today is much different,” said Priscilla Moriuchi, who once ran the National Security Agency’s East Asia and Pacific cyber threats division. Her duties there included determining whether Beijing was abiding by the 2015 agreement’s terms. “These groups care about attribution. They don’t want to get caught.”It is difficult to quantify the number of industrial-espionage attacks, in part because they have been designed mostly to steal strategic trade secrets, not the kind of personal information about customers and employees that companies must disclose. Only Airbus has acknowledged in recent weeks that Chinese hackers had penetrated its databases.Many of the attacks by the Chinese Ministry of State Security have been against strategic targets like internet service providers with access to hundreds of thousands, if not millions, of corporate and government networks.Last week, Ms. Moriuchi, who is now a threat director at the cybersecurity firm Recorded Future, released a report on a yearlong, stealth campaign by the ministry to hack internet service providers in Western Europe and the United States and their customers.The lone hacking target to publicly confront the ministry was Visma, a Norwegian internet service provider with 850,000 customers. The goal of the attack on Visma was to gain broad access to its customers’ intellectual property, strategic plans and emails, including those of an American law firm that handles intellectual property matters for clients in the automotive, biomedical, pharmaceutical and tech sectors, according to Recorded Future.The Visma attack was harder to trace than earlier incidents, which typically started with so-called spearphishing emails meant to steal personal credentials. This assault began with stolen credentials for a third-party software service, Citrix. And instead of using malware easily traced to China, the attackers used malware available on the so-called Dark Web that could have come from anywhere. They also used the online storage service Dropbox to move stolen emails and files.Federal agencies are also trying to fend off new Iranian espionage campaigns.After  the Trump administration pulled out of the nuclear deal, Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, testified before Congress that her agency was “anticipating it’s a possibility” that Iran would resort to hacking attacks.The Iranian attacks, which hit more than a half-dozen federal agencies last month, still caught the department off guard. Security researchers said the hacks, which exploited underlying weaknesses in the internet’s backbone, were continuing and were more damaging and widespread than agency officials had acknowledged.Iranian hackers began their latest wave of attacks in Persian Gulf states last year. Since then, they have expanded to 80 targets — including internet service providers, telecommunications companies and government agencies — in 12 European countries and the United States, according to researchers at FireEye, which first reported the attacks last month.The current hacks are harder to catch than previous Iranian attacks. Instead of hitting victims directly, FireEye researchers said, Iranian hackers have been going after the internet’s core routing system, intercepting traffic between so-called domain name registrars. Once they intercepted their target’s customer web traffic, they used stolen login credentials to gain access to their victims’ emails. (Domain name registrars hold the keys to hundreds, perhaps thousands, of companies’ websites.)“They’re taking whole mailboxes of data,” said Benjamin Read, a senior manager of cyberespionage analysis at FireEye. Mr. Read said Iranian hackers had targeted police forces, intelligence agencies and foreign ministries, indicating a classic, state-backed espionage campaign rather than a criminal, profit-seeking motive.There is a long history of Iranian attacks against the United States, and episodes from five years back or longer are just now being made public.On Wednesday, the Justice Department announced an indictment against a former Air Force intelligence specialist, Monica Witt, on charges of helping Iran with an online espionage campaign. Four members of Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps were also charged with “computer intrusions and aggravated identity theft” directed at members of the United States intelligence community.Also last week, the Treasury said it was putting sanctions on two Iranian companies, New Horizon Organization and Net Peygard Samavat Company, and several people linked to them. Treasury officials said New Horizon set up annual conferences where Iran could recruit and collect intelligence from foreign attendees.Ms. Witt attended one of the conferences, the indictment says. Net Peygard used information she provided to begin a campaign in 2014 to track the online activities of United States government and military personnel, Treasury officials said.Representatives for Iran’s Mission to the United Nations did not respond to requests for comment.The recent Iranian attacks have unnerved American officials. But after issuing the emergency order about the ones last month, the Department of Homeland Security’s Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency has largely played them down.An official with the cybersecurity agency said there was a belief that no information had been stolen and that the attacks had not “materially impacted” operations. But Mr. Read of FireEye and others said there had been a noticeable escalation in Iran’s digital espionage.“If you tell the Iranians you’re going to walk out on the agreement and do everything you can to undermine their government,” said Mr. Brenner, the former counterintelligence official, “you can’t be surprised if they attack our government networks.”Follow Nicole Perlroth on Twitter: @nicoleperlrothJulian Barnes contributed reporting from Washington, and Sheera Frenkel from New York.
Supported byBy Michael J. de la MercedSAN FRANCISCO — In an ever-crowded field of investors pouring money into the technology industry, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts was among the first. And with a nearly $2 billion deal, the investment giant will extend its multibillion-dollar flurry of activity from the past year.On Tuesday, K.K.R. announced its acquisition of Optiv Security, a provider of cybersecurity services, adding to a list of deals over the past five months that include the purchase of the cloud-based software company Epicor and the call-center software maker Calabrio.Though the American private equity firm has had a technology investment practice for decades — George R. Roberts, a co-founder, has long been based in Menlo Park, Calif., in the heart of Silicon Valley — the firm has been building its presence in that sector in recent years.It is in the process of closing its first fund dedicated to so-called growth investments — in large and more developed tech start-ups — after having earlier removed such deals from its balance sheet. (Those investments included stakes in the speakers maker Sonos and the daily fantasy site FanDuel.)K.K.R. has also continued to strike leveraged buyouts for the likes of Epicor. And it is increasingly investing in publicly traded companies, serving as a management-friendly investor.“We’re trying to be on offense,” Herald Chen, a co-head of K.K.R.’s tech practice, said in a telephone interview.Over all, Mr. Chen said, K.K.R. is looking for companies seeking international growth, so that it can assist them in finding and financing acquisitions of their own.Even as the field of investors in tech firms has grown more crowded — from traditional venture capital firms and leveraged-buyout specialists to more unusual entrants, like the Japanese tech giant SoftBank — Mr. Chen said his company had not experienced difficulty finding new investments.K.K.R.’s deal for Optiv would see it take over a company that operates in a sector of enormous growth after a series of high-profile security breaches at corporations and government agencies.Optiv was formed in 2015 with the merger of two cybersecurity providers, Accuvant and FishNet Security. The resulting company originally sold cybersecurity software, but it has since broadened its offerings to provide security consulting services.Optiv, which had $947.3 million in revenue in 2015, filed confidentially for an initial public offering last year and revealed the plans last month. But Mr. Chen said K.K.R. had been approached by Optiv’s bankers early last month about the possibility of buying the company.“We walked away thinking that this was a very, very interesting platform,” Mr. Chen said. “They were selling cybersecurity software and technology and platforms, but because they’re in the middle of selling all of those systems, they see all of the potential threats.”The company is owned by a group of investors that includes the Blackstone Group, which would keep a minority stake in the business.The deal is expected to close in the first quarter of next year.Follow Michael J. de la Merced on Twitter @m_delamerced.
Supported byAmerica’s water supply is increasingly digitized, and increasingly vulnerable. By Ari Mahairas and Peter J. BesharMr. Mahairas is the special agent in charge of the F.B.I.’s New York Special Operations and Cyber Division, and Mr. Beshar is the general counsel of Marsh &amp; McLennan.When hackers went after the Onslow Water and Sewer Authority last month, it was the second cyberattack on a North Carolina utility within a year. The hackers, who timed this attack for the aftermath of Hurricane Florence, caused “a catastrophic loss” by encrypting databases and locking out employees. Rather than pay a ransom to the hackers, the utility is rebuilding its information technology systems from scratch.We need water for everything from cooking to manufacturing. Technological advances that make our water supply smarter — automating chemical treatment, for example, or enabling electronic billing —  also make it more vulnerable to cyberattacks. According to the Department of Homeland Security, more than 150,000 systems deliver clean water to Americans and dispose of wastewater. Drinking water is delivered by more than a million miles of pipes — four times the length of the national highway system. The New York City government controls America’s largest single-source water supply — a reservoir system supplying 1.2 billion gallons of water a day — and the city’s Department of Environmental Protection employs nearly 200 officers to protect the system.Each water system is operated by its own industrial control system, which in most cases evolved over decades with a hodgepodge of functions and technologies layered on top of older infrastructure. For example, water can travel up to 125 miles within New York City’s system before it reaches a faucet. Along the way, it’s disinfected with chlorine and then slowed down to pass through 56 containers holding ultraviolet lights in quartz tubes. The water gets fluoride to protect teeth and phosphoric acid to protect the distribution pipes. Throughout the process, a centralized computer system gathers data and creates detailed projections. In our complex and aging chain of reservoirs, aqueducts, tunnels and pipes, the weakest link could actually be the newest additions. Until recently, water systems were typically “air-gapped,” meaning they were physically separated from the internet and from any computer connected to the internet. This held a twofold advantage: The systems didn’t require network connectivity to function, and they were harder to attack. But as water systems modernize their purification, distribution and maintenance, their industrial control systems have started to lose their air gaps — and have increasingly become potential targets.The specter of operational attacks isn’t theoretical. In 2016, Syrian-linked hackers attacked an American water district’s industrial control systems. After two months of inexplicable valve and duct movement and millions of data records were stolen, the operators undertook a forensic investigation. Verizon Security Services reported that the hackers “managed to manipulate the system to alter the amount of chemicals that went into the water supply.” The utility had a single, antiquated computer system, and hadn’t adequately protected the administrator login credentials. No one was harmed, but we won’t always be so lucky. Fortunately, there are many steps that both the private and public sectors can take to reduce their dependence on sheer luck.Many water utilities still need to adopt “defense in depth” approaches that create multiple layers of security, instead of relying on passive defenses like antivirus software, email filters and firewalls. The post-air-gap environment requires constant scanning for anomalous network activity as well as rigorous patch management and security upgrades. Utilities need to segregate their consumer and industrial control networks as much as possible and develop contingency plans for operating water systems without computers.Device manufacturers also have a critical role to play by producing more secure hardware for monitoring and managing things like water pressure, leakage and chemical levels. Many industrial internet-connected devices are built much like their consumer counterparts, like web-connected toasters and wearable health monitors. As a result, they have vulnerabilities that can be exploited by a wide range of hackers, from hostile governments to sophisticated criminals. Devices often are too small to include the necessary security hardware, lack the computing power to host security software or can’t be updated when flaws are discovered.Utilities also need more practical cybersecurity guidance from federal agencies, warnings that go beyond the typical bulletin identifying the kind of attack and its source. Depending on the threat, that guidance might be hardware instructions — like closing unused ports or using single-direction gateways that don’t allow information to flow inward. Or it might point to organized phishing attacks and recommend specific filters for emails and attachments. The more utilities know about threats, the better their chances of defending themselves.Finally, utilities also need to trust the government channels available to them to report attacks. Robust cybersecurity depends on real-time updates about threats and tactics. So if one utility reports an attempted hack of a particular part of its system, utilities everywhere would know to how to fortify that portion of their network. In 2015, Congress gave companies legal protection to share sensitive customer data with the government when it relates to cyberthreats; only six companies have done so. But there is reason for optimism that this number will grow. The F.B.I. has an online portal for this purpose under the InfraGard program; the Department of Homeland Security recently formed the National Risk Management Center to coordinate private- and public-sector defense of infrastructure. The concept of damaging a society by attacking its water supply is as old as warfare itself. In the sixth century B.C., Assyrians poisoned enemy wells with fungal disease. In 1939, Nazi Germany plotted to blow up the Hoover Dam. More recently, the Islamic State prioritized seizing dams as it expanded its territorial control. These days, the threat is more pernicious than ever: Destruction and disruption that once required explosives can be achieved with keystrokes. This threat of an attack that cascades across regions and sectors of the economy significantly changes the stakes for government officials and businesses alike, and it demands dedicated action.Ari Mahairas is the special agent in charge of the Special Operations and the Cyber Division at the F.B.I.’s New York field office. Peter J. Beshar is the general counsel of the Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies, and has testified frequently before Congress on cybersecurity.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion).
Supported byBy Julian E. Barnes and Adam SatarianoWASHINGTON — The Trump administration’s aggressive campaign to prevent countries from using Huawei and other Chinese telecommunications equipment in their next-generation wireless networks has faltered, with even some of America’s closest allies rejecting the United States’ argument that the companies pose a security threat.Over the past several months, American officials have tried to pressure, scold and, increasingly, threaten other nations that are considering using Huawei in building fifth-generation, or 5G, wireless networks. Mike Pompeo, the secretary of state, has pledged to withhold intelligence from nations that continue to use Chinese telecom equipment. The American ambassador to Germany cautioned Berlin this month that the United States would curtail intelligence sharing if that country used Huawei.The warnings stem from the United States’ concern that Huawei and other Chinese telecom companies are a significant security threat given Beijing’s control over the industry. Top officials have pointed to new Chinese security laws that require Huawei and other companies to provide information to intelligence officials, arguing China could gain access to the vast amounts of data that will ultimately travel over 5G, allowing Beijing to spy on companies, individuals and governments — an accusation Huawei has vehemently denied.But the campaign has run aground. Britain, Germany, India and the United Arab Emirates are among the countries signaling they are unlikely to back the American effort to entirely ban Huawei from building their 5G networks. While some countries like Britain share the United States’ concerns, they argue that the security risks can be managed by closely scrutinizing the company and its software.The decisions are a blow to the Trump administration’s efforts to rein in Beijing’s economic and technological ambitions and to stop China from playing a central role in the next iteration of the internet.American government officials are now looking for other ways to curb Huawei’s global rise without the cooperation of overseas allies, including possibly restricting American companies from supplying Huawei with key components that it needs to build 5G networks across the world.“It is looking dicey. We are running out of runway,” said Mike Rogers, the former Republican congressman who led the House Intelligence Committee and who has long been a fierce critic of Huawei.The United States is not ready to admit defeat, but its campaign has suffered from what foreign officials say is a scolding approach and a lack of concrete evidence that Huawei poses a real risk. It has also been hampered by a perception among European and Asian officials that President Trump may not be fully committed to the fight.Mr. Trump has repeatedly undercut his own Justice Department, which unveiled sweeping criminal indictments against Huawei and its chief financial officer with accusations of fraud, sanctions evasion and obstruction of justice. Mr. Trump has suggested that the charges could be dropped as part of a trade deal with China. The president previously eased penalties on another Chinese telecom firm accused of violating American sanctions, ZTE, after a personal appeal by President Xi Jinping of China.Those moves have only deepened concerns that the administration’s fight against Huawei is not really about national security and instead reflects its political and economic ambitions.European and Asian officials have complained privately that recent American intelligence briefings for allies did not share any sort of classified information that clearly demonstrated how the Chinese government used Huawei to steal information, according to people familiar with the discussions. European officials have told counterparts that if the United States has evidence the Chinese government has used its companies to do so, they should disclose it.One senior European telecommunications executive said that no American officials had presented “actual facts” about China’s abuse of Huawei networks.Ren Zhengfei, the founder of Huawei, has accused the United States of having political motivations in leveling criminal charges against the company and has said the firm does not spy for China.Unlike the United States, European wireless networks are much more dependent on Huawei, so banning its equipment would be far more consequential. Many of the leading carriers, including Vodafone and Deutsche Telekom, use the company’s equipment, and a widespread ban would result in costly changes that executives have warned may delay the debut of 5G in the region.Garrett Marquis, a spokesman for the National Security Council, said the United States continued to work “with our allies and like-minded partners to mitigate risk in the deployment of 5G and other communications infrastructure.”Mr. Rogers said the notion that other nations could adequately manage the security risk was misplaced. “They are so convinced they can get over the security problem. It defies logic,” he said.But he said Mr. Trump had not helped his administration’s efforts by suggesting that a national security matter like Huawei could be wrapped into some type of trade pact with China.“That is a big mistake,” Mr. Rogers said. “You have taken a national security issue and given it away in a trade deal. This is about the security of data.”Europeans have their own China trade worries, which could also factor into reluctance to ban Huawei. Although European officials have grown increasingly suspicious of Beijing’s growing economic might, China is still the European Union’s second-largest trading partner after the United States. This week, Mr. Xi is scheduled to be in Italy.“I’m not sure a ban is the solution,” said Caroline Nagtegaal, a member of European Parliament from the Netherlands who helped write a resolution on the cybersecurity risks posed by China that avoided calling for a Huawei ban. “We have to be very careful making a step like that.”Many countries facing American pressure have not made any final decisions. In Britain, for instance, intelligence officials say the threat can be managed, but the government could ultimately overrule them.To bolster its campaign, the administration has begun threatening retaliation against countries that do not agree to its demands.Mr. Pompeo suggested in Hungary that the presence of Huawei could influence decisions on where to station troops overseas, noting that its adoption in wireless networks would make it “more difficult for America to be present.” He followed up on Fox Business Network, saying if countries adopted Huawei technology, the United States “won’t be able to share information” with them.The American ambassador to Germany, Richard Grenell, expanded on Mr. Pompeo’s public messaging with a letter to Berlin, warning of repercussions should it use Huawei. The letter was first reported by The Wall Street Journal.Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany quickly shot back, saying her country was “defining our standards for ourselves.”Andrea Kendall-Taylor, a former American intelligence officer who is now the director of the Transtlantic Security Program at the Center for a New American Security, said administration officials had wrongly framed the decision for European powers as standing with either the United States or China. Countries in Europe, including Britain and Germany, do not want to make that choice, and instead want to maintain good trade relations with China.“The U.S. needs to approach this not as a black and white issue,” Ms. Kendall-Taylor said. “The U.S. should avoid generating more resentment in already fraught relations with the Europeans. To manage the China challenge we will need the Europeans on our side, so we need to work together.”The Trump administration has had some small victories, at least rhetorically. The Czech Republic’s cybersecurity agency has issued warnings about Huawei and other Chinese telecom companies, though the government remains divided over a ban. Poland earned praise from Vice President Mike Pence for its actions against Huawei, which included arresting one of its employees on espionage charges. But as Poland courts Chinese investment, it is unclear if it will embrace a full ban.The most decisive action against Huawei by an American ally is outside Europe, where Australia last year banned the company from its 5G networks.The administration continues to look for other ways to put Huawei at a global disadvantage, including an executive order that would prohibit American companies from using Chinese telecommunications gear in 5G networks. Intelligence and security officials are also considering a more aggressive presidential order that would prevent American companies from supplying Huawei with components that it needs to build 5G networks.While Huawei would eventually make its own version of those components, such export restrictions could slow down the company’s 5G development, winning time for competitors to improve their own offerings.American officials are also exploring ways to counter Huawei’s biggest advantage: its low price and financing deals. Members of Congress and administration officials have discussed ways for the United States and its allies to offset the favorable financing deals China offers for its telecom equipment. Among the options under consideration is providing some type of financing to allied telecom companies building 5G networks.While the United States has continued to talk tough, Mr. Trump has yet to sign any executive order that would curb Huawei’s growth and his recent comments have created doubt about how far he is prepared to go.Last month, the White House dispatched officials from the State, Defense and Commerce Departments and from the Federal Communications Commission to a wireless industry conference in Barcelona, Spain, to make the case against Huawei. But a few days before the convention started, Mr. Trump appeared to backtrack on his administration’s position, posting on Twitter that he wanted American companies to win on their merits, “not by blocking out currently more advanced technologies.”“The administration policy on Huawei and ZTE has been characterized by fits and starts and contradictions,” said Representative Adam B. Schiff, Democrat of California, who has been a top critic of Mr. Trump. “I am not sure I can make heads or tails of it.”American and European officials said that behind the scenes, the negotiations were far more nuanced than the public threats. Some European officials believe that privately the White House has been more receptive to their arguments that the security threat of Chinese telecom companies can be tempered.But the efforts to cajole or pressure European powers may have come too late, say current and former European and American officials. European officials have also told their American counterparts that there is no alternative to Huawei that offers better, more secure equipment, even at a higher price.British officials have said the risk from Huawei can be mitigated without a ban, through tough oversight and restricting Huawei to less critical parts of its networks. The British government operates a security lab where it inspects Huawei’s equipment and code for cybersecurity flaws. Last year, the inspections discovered problems with Huawei software code, but the authorities said it was not related to the Chinese government.Germany is taking a similar approach, with Huawei opening a research center in the city of Bonn where security officials can review its products. The company has also opened a facility in Brussels.Mark Sedwill, Britain’s national security adviser, said it was more important to focus on the security of the system, not the origin of the company that made the equipment. Criminal hackers, not the governments of other countries, remain the biggest threat, he said.“We think we have a pretty mature approach to this that so far — through regulation, through transparency, through setting very close standards — is protecting our interests and securing economic benefits,” Mr. Sedwill said this month during a speech at the Atlantic Council.Julian E. Barnes reported from Washington, and Adam Satariano from London. David E. Sanger contributed reporting from Washington, and Melissa Eddy from Berlin.
Supported byBy Michael D. ShearWASHINGTON — For a brief moment, it looked as if America’s mayor just might become America’s diplomat.But for Rudolph W. Giuliani, the bombastic former mayor of New York City, a wild year of being one of President-elect Donald J. Trump’s most passionate surrogates did not, in the end, land him the high-profile administration job he has long coveted.Instead, Mr. Trump announced on Thursday that he would enlist Mr. Giuliani to share his “expertise and insight as a trusted friend” on the issue of cybersecurity. Mr. Giuliani, who has spent the last 16 years as a private security consultant, will “from time to time” assemble meetings between Mr. Trump and corporate executives who face cyberthreats, the transition team said.“We’ve let our defense fall behind,” Mr. Giuliani told reporters on Thursday during a conference call. “Our offense is way ahead of our defense.”Mr. Giuliani put on a happy face during the call, declaring it a “great privilege” to be taking on the role.But the announcement — almost an afterthought, coming the day after lawmakers grilled Rex W. Tillerson, Mr. Trump’s nominee to be secretary of state, in his confirmation hearing — reflected how far Mr. Giuliani had fallen in the Trump universe.He remains a close friend of Mr. Trump’s, according to associates. But he will not be moving to Washington, as he once hoped, and instead of having his political career rejuvenated after his failed run for president in 2008, he will continue to run his consulting firm.From the start of Mr. Trump’s campaign, Mr. Giuliani was there: loudly defending the candidate against scandals, attacking Hillary Clinton and President Obama, lashing out at the news media, and boldly asserting that Mr. Trump would be the solution to the nation’s problems on race, terrorism, the economy, gender issues, health care and just about everything else.At the Republican National Convention, where Mr. Trump secured his party’s nomination, Mr. Giuliani waved his arms, shouted, clenched his fists and thundered against Mr. Trump’s Democratic opponent. “Hillary Clinton is for open borders,” Mr. Giuliani claimed, warning ominously of “operatives who are terrorists, who are going to come to Western Europe and here and kill us.”It was a classic Giuliani performance that lit up the crowd in Cleveland at a high point for Mr. Trump. And months later, when the release of an “Access Hollywood” tape revealed Mr. Trump speaking graphically about assaulting women, Mr. Giuliani was one of the few people to publicly defend the candidate.Mr. Trump rewarded that loyalty by seriously considering Mr. Giuliani for a series of posts in the administration. Transition officials informally discussed with Mr. Giuliani the positions of attorney general, secretary of homeland security, and director of national intelligence. Mr. Giuliani wanted none of them.What he did want was secretary of state, and his decision to make that plain as day to anyone who asked might have helped scuttle his chances. Some transition officials were also concerned that Mr. Giuliani, 72, might not have the stamina for the globe-trotting job.In the end, Mr. Giuliani removed his name from consideration in mid-December after the drawn-out public audition, shortly before Mr. Trump announced he had chosen Mr. Tillerson.Now, the ill-defined cybersecurity post may be Mr. Giuliani’s best hope of adding some Trump administration luster to his private security business. But his previous forays into the national and international security arena have been less than a success.After leaving the mayor’s office, he received a multimillion-dollar signing bonus to join a Houston-based law firm with oil industry connections, but spent a majority of his time working on a fast-growing international security business called Giuliani Partners.In 2004, Mr. Giuliani pushed President George W. Bush to choose Bernard Kerik, his former police commissioner and an associate at Giuliani Partners, as homeland security secretary. Mr. Kerik’s nomination was abruptly pulled after it was revealed that he had employed an unauthorized immigrant as a nanny. Mr. Giuliani’s influence with the Bush team evaporated, and Mr. Kerik was later sentenced to four years in prison on federal tax charges.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the Morning Briefing newsletter.video
Supported byBy Eileen Sullivan, Noah Weiland and Kate CongerWASHINGTON — The suspected hacking attempt of the Democratic National Committee’s voter database this week was a false alarm, and the unusual activity that raised concern was merely a test, party officials said on Thursday.The blunder was caused by a lack of communication between the national committee and one of its state branches, the officials said. The Michigan Democratic Party had hired hackers to simulate an attack known as phishing, but did not inform the national committee.The Michigan Democratic Party’s test had attributes similar to an actual hacking, said Bob Lord, the national committee’s chief security officer. When the Democratic National Committee was contacted by cybersecurity experts this week about the activity, it notified the F.B.I. out of fears that it was another Russian attempt to penetrate the committee, as Moscow did during the 2016 presidential campaign.The jolts of panic caused by what turned out to be an intraparty action underscored the fear of another major breach of the party’s systems just weeks before the midterm elections, even as computer security has been made a priority and shored up since 2016. American intelligence officials have said there continue to be real threats from Russia to interfere in American elections.“There are constant attempts to hack the D.N.C. and our Democratic infrastructure, and while we are extremely relieved that this wasn’t an attempted intrusion by a foreign adversary, this incident is further proof that we need to continue to be vigilant in light of potential attacks,” Mr. Lord said in a statement.Brandon Dillon, chairman of the Michigan Democratic Party, called the situation a “misstep” and said it was part of efforts to improve cybersecurity “especially as the Trump administration refuses to crack down on foreign interference in our elections.”“In an abundance of caution, our digital partners ran tests that followed extensive training,” he added.In 2016, Russian state-backed operatives penetrated the Democratic National Committee using a phishing campaign, in which hackers create website login pages that appear to be legitimate to trick unsuspecting users into giving up their user names and passwords. Hackers can then use the stolen credentials to log in to systems like email or voter registration databases.Now campaigns often test their employees with phishing simulations like the one conducted by the Michigan party, in which it had third parties set up a fake page that mimicked the party’s login page for its voter-registration website.That page was detected late Monday by the cybersecurity firm Lookout, which informed the Democratic National Committee. The fake page appeared to be aimed at hacking the Democratic National Committee’s Votebuilder database, which Mr. Lord has referred to as “the party’s most sensitive information.”The database is a particular prize for hackers because it contains personal details on Democratic voters that could be used to unlock other information, including personal email accounts and computer files. Its successful penetration could have set off other hacking in a domino effect, cybersecurity experts said.“Phishing attacks to get credentials or install malware are the ammunition that’s currently being used to attack our election systems,” said Joseph Lorenzo Hall, an election security expert and the chief technologist of the Center for Democracy and Technology.In an interview, Mr. Lord said that the fake page did not contain any educational features — leading the Democratic National Committee to believe it was an actual hacking attempt rather than a test.“It very closely mimicked the infrastructure you’d see actual hackers using,” he said. “At the time that it was detected by outside parties, it did not exhibit any of the characteristics of a training system.”The committee’s incident response plan requires it to notify law enforcement in the event of a hacking attempt. “It’s important for me to make sure that when we believe that we are the victim of a criminal act, that we take appropriate action and involve law enforcement,” Mr. Lord said.Mike Murray, the head of security intelligence at Lookout, said it was essential that the activity was caught, even if it was benign.“You don’t know that it’s a false alarm until you show up with the ladders and the fire trucks and the hoses,” he said. “Our goal is to detect bad people doing bad things, regardless of whether that’s crime or espionage or some kid messing around. We don’t want anybody to be attacked.”With the midterms just over 70 days from now, political groups and systems administrators have been on high alert about hacks and foreign meddling.Microsoft recently detected that hackers tied to Russian intelligence targeted the Senate and conservative think tanks in the United States by creating fake websites. Last month, Facebook discovered a political influence campaign directed at disrupting the coming elections. And this week, the social media giant said it had found other disinformation efforts outside the United States.Follow Eileen Sullivan, Noah Weiland and Kate Conger on Twitter: @esullivannyt and @noahweiland and @kateconger.Eileen Sullivan and Noah Weiland reported from Washington, and Kate Conger from San Francisco.
Supported byBy Kate Conger and Sheera FrenkelSAN FRANCISCO — FireEye, a cybersecurity company that has been involved in a number of prominent investigations, including the 2016 attack on the Democratic National Committee, alerted Facebook in July that it had a problem.Security analysts at the company noticed a cluster of inauthentic accounts and pages on Facebook that were sharing content from a site called Liberty Front Press. It looked like a news site, but most of its content was stolen from outlets like Politico and CNN. The small amount of original material was written in choppy English.FireEye’s tip eventually led Facebook to remove 652 fake accounts and pages. And Liberty Front Press, the common thread among much of that sham activity, was linked to state media in Iran, Facebook said on Tuesday.Facebook’s latest purge of disinformation from its platforms highlighted the key role that cybersecurity outfits are playing in policing the pages of giant social media platforms. For all of their wealth and well-staffed security teams, companies like Facebook often rely on outside firms and researchers for their expertise.The discovery of the disinformation campaign also represented a shift in the bad behavior that independent security companies are on the lookout for. Long in the business of discovering and fending off hacking attempts and all sorts of malware, security companies have expanded their focus to the disinformation campaigns that have plagued Facebook and other social media for the past few years.Founded in 2004 in Milpitas, Calif., FireEye has a work force of about 3,000 people, a fraction of Facebook’s. But it employs security analysts with particular skills, including employees who are fluent in English, Arabic, Russian, French and Italian, helping them to identify and track misinformation around the world.Lee Foster, the manager of FireEye’s information operations analysis team, described in an interview with The New York Times how his company spotted the Iranian disinformation campaign. He declined to say whether his research into the Iranian campaign was on behalf of a particular client because FireEye has a policy against naming who it is working with.“It started with a single social media account or a small set of accounts that were pushing this political-themed content that didn’t necessarily seem in line with the personas that the accounts had adopted,” said Mr. Foster. Many of the fake accounts, which sprawled across Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Reddit, shared content from Liberty Front Press.Over two months, Mr. Foster and a small group of analysts mapped the connections between the accounts and unearthed more of them.The evidence pointed toward Iran. A website for Liberty Front Press was initially registered to an email linked to ads for web designers in Tehran before being switched to a registrant purportedly based in San Jose, Calif.The web designer email had also been used to register another news site. That site, in turn, was associated with a number of email addresses linked to even more inauthentic news sites. Digging deeper, FireEye found that many of the Twitter accounts sharing Liberty Front Press content were linked to Iranian phone numbers, although the profiles claimed to be operating in the United States.Stepping from fake news site to news site and from Twitter to Facebook, FireEye pieced together a campaign that tried to influence audiences in the Middle East, as well as in the United States, Britain and Latin America.The analysts were careful to collect data without being noticed. “I have to be conscious about tipping off the operators of this,” Mr. Foster said. “I want to make sure I’ve got everything, so we don’t deal with one small component of the threat and we find out there’s this whole other cluster of it.”Iran’s cyber capabilities have grown in recent years and Iranian hackers have been blamed for a number of significant attacks. Earlier this year,  federal law enforcement officials said nine Iranians were behind intrusions at American government agencies, universities and private companies.Attributing attacks to Iran has been tricky. Security experts who have studied Iranian hackers said many take part in attacks, or disinformation campaigns, while they are still in college. They are often recruited for government work, but may also float in and out of government-backed contracts.Those loose affiliations make it difficult to pinpoint which attacks are directed by Iranian authorities.FireEye’s information set off Facebook’s own investigation, which uncovered three other Iranian disinformation efforts and another that appeared to originate in Russia.One of the Iranian campaigns Facebook discovered dabbled in a mix of misinformation and more traditional hacking, Facebook’s head of cybersecurity policy, Nathaniel Gleicher, wrote in a blog post.“They typically posed as news organizations and didn’t reveal their true identity,” he said. “They also engaged in traditional cybersecurity attacks, including attempts to hack people’s accounts and spread malware, which we had seen before and disrupted.”The Russian pages discovered by Facebook were unrelated to FireEye’s research. Facebook said the accounts were linked to people that law enforcement in the United States had identified as Russian military intelligence. Unlike other fake pages that have been attributed to Russians over the last year, those accounts posted content focused on politics in Syria and Ukraine.FireEye’s information operations analysis team was formed in 2016, when hacked emails from several political figures were beginning to appear on the site DCLeaks. “All through that period, we were tracking the Russian effort to influence U.S. elections,” Mr. Foster said. “Obviously, social media is a very important kind of medium by which these campaigns are undertaken.”Mr. Foster had been tracking influence campaigns long before they became a major narrative in American politics. He previously worked at iSight Partners, a cyberintelligence firm acquired by FireEye in January 2016, where he tracked so-called hacktivist groups like Anonymous.An attack on Sony’s computer network by North Korean hackers in 2014 put cybersecurity companies on notice that they had to pay more attention to information warfare. The Sony intrusion was destructive to technical systems, “but there was more to it than that,” Mr. Foster said. “It was about conveying a message and trying to influence an audience.”In time, “we realized there was a bigger kind of potential threat there that we need to address,” he added.The Sony attack was also a game changer for governments and other major companies, said Graham Brookie, the director of the Digital Forensic Research Lab at the Atlantic Council, which has analyzed misinformation on Facebook. Thousands of embarrassing emails between Sony executives were dumped online. The hackers also stole employees’ personal information, including Social Security numbers, and wiped Sony’s servers.The incident prompted officials in the United States to establish protocols for sharing information about cybersecurity threats and influence operations, Mr. Brookie said.But information sharing still seems to have its limits.Unlike Facebook, Twitter did not receive advance notice from FireEye about the fake Twitter profiles the security company had uncovered. Several of them were still live Tuesday night, hours after Facebook’s announcement. Twitter has since suspended 284 accounts based on the information revealed by Facebook and FireEye, the company said in a tweet.As internet outlets struggle to keep up with influence campaigns, Mr. Foster believes complex disinformation schemes will become more common.“What this is great for demonstrating is, it really doesn’t matter what the political goals or ideological goals are, these techniques are seen as an attractive way to try to achieve them,” Mr. Foster said.Follow Kate Conger and Sheera Frenkel on Twitter: @kateconger and @sheeraf.
Supported byBy Nicole Perlroth, Amie Tsang and Adam SatarianoThe hotel chain asked guests checking in for a treasure trove of personal information: credit cards, addresses and sometimes passport numbers. On Friday, consumers learned the risk. Marriott International revealed that hackers had breached its Starwood reservation system and had stolen the personal data of up to 500 million guests.The assault started as far back as 2014, and was one of the largest known thefts of personal records, second only to a 2013 breach of Yahoo that affected three billion user accounts and larger than a 2017 episode involving the credit bureau Equifax.The intrusion was a reminder that after years of headline-grabbing attacks, the computer networks of big companies are still vulnerable.The Starwood attack happened roughly the same time as a number of other breaches at American health insurers and government agencies, including the United States Office of Personnel Management, in what security research firms and government officials described as an effort to compile a vast database of personal information on potential espionage targets.Experts don’t know if the Starwood attack was connected to those other episodes. But Starwood’s data has not popped up on the so-called dark web, according to Recorded Future, a cybersecurity firm, and Coalition, a cyber insurance provider, which suggested that the hotel attackers weren’t looking to sell what they took.“Usually when stolen data doesn’t appear, it’s a state actor collecting it for intelligence purposes,” said James A. Lewis, a cybersecurity expert at the Center for Strategic Studies in Washington.The breach hit customers who made reservations for the Marriott-owned Starwood hotel brands from 2014 to September 2018. The properties include Sheraton, Westin, W Hotels, St. Regis, Four Points, Aloft, Le Méridien, Tribute, Design Hotels, Element and the Luxury Collection.Marriott hotels, including Residence Inn and the Ritz-Carlton, operate on a separate reservation system. The company has plans to merge that system with Starwood’s.The names, addresses, phone numbers, birth dates, email addresses and encrypted credit card details of hotel customers were stolen. The travel histories and passport numbers of a smaller group of guests were also taken.Marriott said it had set up a dedicated website and call center to deal with guests and said it would try to reach affected customers on Friday to inform them of the breach. The site was having problems staying online shortly after the attack was announced.The company is offering one year of free enrollment in a service called Web Watcher to people who live in the United States, Canada and Britain. Marriott described it as a service that keeps an eye on websites where thieves swap and sell personal information and then alerts people if anyone is selling their information.“We deeply regret this incident,” Arne Sorenson, Marriott’s president and chief executive, said in a statement. “We fell short of what our guests deserve and what we expect of ourselves.”The intrusion went unnoticed for four years by Starwood, which was acquired by Marriott in 2016 for $13.6 billion. It was uncovered in early September, when a security tool alerted Marriott officials to an unauthorized attempt to access Starwood’s guest reservation database. The alert prompted Marriott to work with outside security experts, who discovered that the hackers had grabbed a foothold in Starwood’s systems starting in 2014.There are more reasons than ever to protect your personal information, as major website breaches become ever more frequent.On Nov. 19, digital forensics experts uncovered the full scope of the attack. It was the second major security breach Starwood has reported. Its cash register systems were penetrated in 2015.The Federal Bureau of Investigation said in a statement that it was aware of the breach and was tracking the situation. It added that any suspected instances of identity theft should be reported to the F.B.I.’s Internet Crime Complaint Center at www.ic3.gov.In recent years, cybersecurity experts said, the hospitality industry has become a rich target for nation-state hackers looking to track the travel movements and preferences of heads of states, diplomats, chief executives and other people of interest to espionage agencies.Going after hotel customer lists has been part of a broader effort to obtain giant databases of information. So big, in fact, that they would be of little use to run-of-the-mill hackers. But to a government, they would be very useful.That information could be fed, for example, into an analysis program run by a country’s state security apparatus, Mr. Lewis said. Using “big data” technology similar to what marketers use in targeted advertising, the country could try to pinpoint the comings and going of intelligence agents from other nations. Did they stay, for example, in the same hotel as a potential source for that country?The breach could get expensive for Marriott. Verizon cut what it paid to acquire Yahoo by $350 million after the internet company reported its breach in 2016. And Equifax reported recovery costs of $400 million from its 2017 incident, which affected 148 million people.Despite months of due diligence, finding out there was a major network attack long after a deal closes is “everybody’s worst-case scenario,” said Jake Olcott, vice president at BitSight, a computer security ratings company in Boston.Several lawsuits were filed against Marriott on Friday, and investigations were announced by New York’s attorney general, Barbara D. Underwood, and European regulators.In Europe, where companies can be fined up to 4 percent of global revenue under data protection laws, companies must alert government authorities within 72 hours of a known breach.Given the volume and sensitivity of personal data taken, and the length of the breach, Marriott “has the potential to trigger the first hefty G.D.P.R. fine,” said Enza Iannopollo, a security analyst with Forrester Research, referring to the European data protection law enacted this year.Marriott told shareholders that it did not expect the breach would affect the company’s long-term financial prospects. The company’s share price was down more than 5 percent on Friday.Marriott has also been dealing with strikes by thousands of workers in nine cities, as well as customer complaints about problems with rewards programs after efforts to merge data from Starwood’s rewards program into Marriott’s left the records of millions of customers in limbo.Lawmakers said the episode was yet another example of why the United States needs data privacy laws that punish companies for failing to keep customers’ information private.“It is past time we enact data security laws that ensure companies account for security costs rather than making their consumers shoulder the burden and harms resulting from these lapses,” Senator Mark R. Warner, a Democrat from Virginia, said in a statement.Privacy advocates said there was no excuse for a breach to go unnoticed for four years.“They can say all they want that they take security seriously, but they don’t if you can be hacked over a four-year period without noticing,” said Gus Hosein, executive director of Privacy International, a group that supports strong data protection laws.An earlier version of this article misstated the value of Marriott International’s acquisition of Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide in 2016. Marriott bought Starwood for $13.6 billion, not $12.2 billion.Follow Nicole Perlroth, Amie Tsang and Adam Satariano on Twitter: @nicoleperlroth, @amietsang and @satariano.Ron Lieber and Stacy Cowley contributed reporting.
Supported byBy David E. Sanger and Katie BennerWASHINGTON — The Trump administration ramped up its pressure campaign on Beijing on Thursday, as the Justice Department accused two Chinese nationals with ties to the country’s Ministry of State Security of infiltrating the biggest providers of internet services and boring into government computer systems, including a major Department of Energy laboratory.The indictment of the two men came just months after the Justice Department lured one of the Chinese intelligence agency’s officers to Belgium, where he was arrested and extradited to the United States. Both cases focus on an intelligence effort based in Tianjin to advance Beijing’s economic and geopolitical interests with an extraordinarily broad attack on Western companies and governments.Just as the indictment was unsealed, Britain identified the same intelligence operation, often named APT 10 by cybersecurity firms, as responsible for separate attacks in that country and beyond. The statement from Britain’s Foreign Office was part of a new, collective effort by Western allies to call out China’s attempts to obtain trade secrets and intellectual property through a state-coordinated cyberespionage campaign, according to people involved in the planning. Australia and New Zealand on Friday issued similar statements.The allegations highlight the tension between the United States and China over what the White House says is a brazen effort by the Chinese to obtain Western technology and other proprietary information. The United States formally accused the Chinese of violating a 2015 agreement — brokered by President Barack Obama and President Xi Jinping — to cease economic espionage, saying Chinese hackers have come roaring back after two years of comity.The Justice Department action also comes amid other Trump administration pressure on the Chinese. The United States helped coordinate the arrest of a top executive of Huawei, the Chinese telecom giant, on suspicion of committing fraud related to sanctions against Iran. Her arrest, while she was changing planes in Canada, has set off a geopolitical standoff, with China arresting three Canadians on its own soil.Last week, American investigators said that a long-running hack of Starwood Hotels, now part of Marriott International, was a Chinese intelligence-gathering operation. And the United States has taken steps to block Chinese investment and student enrollments in the United States.It is not clear how, if at all, the latest indictment will affect Mr. Trump’s effort to reach a trade agreement with Mr. Xi that would end an escalating tariff war between the world’s two largest economies. The United States has set a March 2 deadline to reach agreement with Beijing on a range of issues, including what the White House says is a pattern in which China has pressured American companies to hand over valuable technology and trade secrets as a condition of doing business there.China’s Foreign Ministry said in a statement on its website that it does not support stealing trade secrets and that the move “seriously violates the basic norms of international relations and has severely damaged Sino-U.S. cooperation.”It said that American monitoring of foreign governments, businesses and individuals has long been an “open secret.”The statement was a reminder of how cyberspace has become a primary battleground between the two nations.The indictment unsealed on Thursday describes the broad outlines of what it calls a yearslong campaign by China to steal American technological secrets in a range of industries to allow Beijing’s companies to undercut international competitors and help its military erode the United States’ defensive edge. That echoes a previous indictment against officers of the People’s Liberation Army in 2014, who were charged with stealing a variety of industrial secrets. Safely ensconced in China, none of them have ever been arrested or brought to trial.In the new case, the government said it had charged two Chinese nationals, Zhu Hua and Zhang Shilong, with conspiracy to hack into computer systems and commit wire fraud and identity theft. The government accused them of targeting unnamed aviation, telecommunications, pharmaceutical and satellite companies, and said several government entities were attacked, including the Navy and NASA’s Goddard Space Flight Center and Jet Propulsion Laboratory.The indictment does not describe any specific technology stolen by the group but said they “successfully obtained unauthorized access” to a range of entities, including the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, an Energy Department lab in California.Security firms have been tracking the Chinese hackers, Mr. Zhu, also called “Godkiller,” and Mr. Zhang, also called “Baobeilong,” for 13 years, under various names including APT10 and Stone Panda. At the National Security Agency, intelligence analysts tracked the two, along with a third Chinese hacker, whom they called “Legion Opal.” All targeted an exhaustive list of individuals and companies in aerospace and defense, naval, energy, natural resources, automotive, electronic and government sectors, as well as the occasional Chinese dissident.But as recently as 2013, intelligence officials were not sure what to make of the hackers’ relationship to Chinese state officials. All three were based in Tianjin, and that year, a classified intelligence assessment was vague in describing any tie to Beijing. The “exact affiliation with Chinese government entities is not known, but their activities indicate a probable intelligence requirement feed,” one N.S.A. document obtained by The New York Times said.The hackers worked for private tech companies, but their targets — particularly in aerospace and defense — were of value to China’s civilian spy agency. Other targets in the energy, automotive, electronic and national resources industries closely aligned with China’s economic priorities.“This is outright cheating and theft, and it gives China an unfair advantage at the expense of law-abiding businesses and countries that follow the international rules in return for the privilege of participating in the global economic system,” Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general, said at a news conference.APT10 has rapidly changed its approaches and technology after private cybersecurity firms discovered its attacks. It constantly shifted its internet protocol, or IP, addresses to avoid detection and bypass security filters, the indictment alleged, allowing it to remain on its victims’ systems far longer.Between 2006 and 2018, according to the indictment, the APT10 group hacked computers in at least a dozen countries and broke into companies and the American government to steal information and data on various technologies.Beginning in 2014, APT10 began to target companies that provide computer services like cloud computing and networking support. It penetrated those networks and stole confidential business data from companies around the world, the indictment says.In doing so, the administration said, Beijing violated its 2015 agreement not to steal American technological secrets. Not only did it use the stolen information to give its companies a competitive advantage, but it also used the intelligence to rapidly advance the capabilities of the People’s Liberation Army as it worked to increase its influence in the Pacific region.In addition to its corporate espionage, the group compromised the Navy’s computer systems, downloading the private information of more than 100,000 Navy personnel, the Justice Department said.“China stands accused of engaging in criminal activity that victimizes individuals and companies in the United States, violates our laws and departs from international norms of state behavior,” Mr. Rosenstein said.He accused China of trying to “dominate” other countries through economic espionage, and said the response “requires a strategic, whole-of-government approach to the threats that China poses.”The legal assault on China comes as Mr. Trump tries to end a trade war with Beijing that has begun inflicting economic harm on both sides of the Pacific. But while the administration has tried to divorce trade talks from law enforcement actions, Mr. Trump has eagerly conflated the two, potentially complicating an already complex negotiation.Mr. Trump has suggested that he could intervene in the Huawei case if it would help secure a trade agreement with China. And he previously intervened in another sanctions case involving a Chinese telecom firm, ZTE, which had been barred from buying American components after China’s president, Mr. Xi, personally appealed to the president.Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, said he was “cautiously optimistic” that the charges against Chinese hackers would not derail the trade negotiations. He said that while cybersecurity had been discussed, this specific situation had not been raised.Nicole Perlroth contributed reporting from San Francisco.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.
Supported byBy Kim ZetterIn 2011, the election board in Pennsylvania’s Venango County — a largely rural county in the northwest part of the state — asked David A. Eckhardt, a computer science professor at Carnegie Mellon University, to examine its voting systems. In municipal and state primaries that year, a few voters had reported problems with machines ‘‘flipping’’ votes; that is, when these voters touched the screen to choose a candidate, the screen showed a different candidate selected. Errors like this are especially troubling in counties like Venango, which uses touch-screen voting machines that have no backup paper trail; once a voter casts a digital ballot, if the machine misrecords the vote because of error or maliciousness, there’s little chance the mistake will be detected.Eckhardt and his colleagues concluded that the problem with the machines, made by Election Systems &amp; Software (ES&amp;S), was likely a simple calibration error. But the experts were alarmed by something else they discovered. Examining the election-management computer at the county’s office — the machine used to tally official election results and, in many counties, to program voting machines — they found that remote-access software had been installed on it.Remote-access software is a type of program that system administrators use to access and control computers remotely over the internet or over an organization’s internal network. Election systems are supposed to be air-gapped — disconnected from the internet and from other machines that might be connected to the internet. The presence of the software suggested this wasn’t the case with the Venango machine, which made the system vulnerable to hackers. Anyone who gained remote access to the system could use the software to take control of the machine. Logs showed the software was installed two years earlier and used multiple times, most notably for 80 minutes on November 1, 2010, the night before a federal election.The software, it turns out, was being used not by a hacker but by an authorized county contractor working from home. Still, the arrangement meant anyone who might gain control of the contractor’s home computer could use it to access and gain control of the county’s election system.It was just another example of something that Eckhardt and other experts had suspected for many years: that many critical election systems in the United States are poorly secured and protected against malicious attacks.In the 15 years since electronic voting machines were first adopted by many states, numerous reports by computer scientists have shown nearly every make and model to be vulnerable to hacking. The systems were not initially designed with robust security in mind, and even where security features were included, experts have found them to be poorly implemented with glaring holes.But for as long as experts have warned about security problems, voting machine makers and election officials have denied that the machines can be remotely hacked. The reason, they say, is that the systems are not connected to the internet — an assurance the public has largely accepted. This defense was never more loudly expressed than in 2016, when the government disclosed that Russian hackers were probing American voter-registration systems and had breached at least one of them. Concerned that hacking fears could make the public less likely to vote, the United States Election Assistance Commission and state election officials rushed to assert that there was no need to worry about the votes because voting machines themselves were isolated from the internet.The reality, as the incident in Venango County makes clear, is far more complicated.Venango removed the remote-access software and isolated its system after Eckhardt and colleagues pointed out the security risk. But it’s likely that the software is still installed on other election systems around the country. ES&amp;S has in the past sometimes sold its election-management system with remote-access software preinstalled, according to one official; and where it wasn’t preloaded, the company advised officials to install it so ES&amp;S technicians could remotely access the systems via modem, as Venango County’s contractor did, to troubleshoot and provide maintenance. An ES&amp;S contract with Michigan from 2006 describes how the company’s tech support workers used remote-access software called pcAnywhere to access customer election systems. And a report from Allegheny County, Pennsylvania, that same year describes pcAnywhere on that county’s election-management system on June 2 when ES&amp;S representatives spent hours trying to reconcile vote discrepancies in a local district race that took place during a May 16th primary. An Allegheny County election official told me that remote-access software came pre-installed on their ES&amp;S election-management system.(In a statement, ES&amp;S said, ‘‘None of the employees who reviewed this response, including long-tenured employees, has any knowledge that our voting systems have ever been sold with remote-access software.’’)Installing remote-access software and modems on systems that program voting machines and tally final results is a serious security issue and one that election officials are beginning to understand, as evidenced by Venango’s response to Eckhardt’s warning. But there’s an even more fundamental way that many voting machines themselves are being connected to the internet and put at risk of hacking, and there’s no sign that election officials at the state or federal level are aware the risk exists.On election nights, many polling places around the country transmit voting results to their county election offices via modems embedded in or connected to their voting machines. Election officials and vendors insist that the modem transmissions are safe because the connections go over phone lines and not the internet. But as security experts point out, many of the modems are cellular, which use radio signals to send calls and data to cell towers and routers belonging to mobile carriers — Verizon, Sprint, AT&amp;T. These routers are technically part of the internet. Even when analog (landline) modems are used instead of cellular ones, the calls still likely pass through routers, because phone companies have replaced much of their analog switching equipment in recent years with digital systems.Because of this, attackers could theoretically intercept unofficial results as they’re transmitted on election night — or, worse, use the modem connections to reach back into election machines at either end and install malware or alter election software and official results.‘‘Almost any phone call, whether on a cellular network or a so-called landline, goes through a part of the internet,’’ says Andrew Appel, a computer-science professor at Princeton University and longtime voting-machine security expert. ‘‘It may be a part that’s supposedly behind the walls of some phone provider,’’ Appel added. But, he said, ‘‘if the security of the phone provider is not perfect — and nobody’s security is perfect — then that phone call can be interfered with like any other transmission on the internet.’’How could someone pull this off? To subvert machines via their modem connection, an attacker could set up a device known as an IMSI-catcher (or stingray, as they’re also called) near precincts or county election offices to intercept and alter vote tallies as they’re transmitted. IMSI-catchers — which law enforcement, militaries and spies use — impersonate legitimate cell towers and trick phones and other devices in their vicinity into connecting to them instead of legitimate towers.Alternatively, a hacker could subvert telecom routers to intercept and alter election results as they pass through telecom equipment. Like any other digital device, telecom routers have vulnerabilities, and they have become a prime target in recent years for nation-state hackers from Russia and other countries. In 2012, hackers from Britain’s GCHQ spy agency targeted routers belonging to the Belgian telecom Belgacom to intercept mobile traffic passing through them.In either scenario, experts say, attackers could also potentially use an IMSI-catcher or subverted telecom router to hack back into election systems and alter software to affect election outcomes.The Election Assistance Commission, which oversees testing and certification of voting machines and advises states to isolate election systems from the internet, has said modems aren’t a problem. ‘‘The caution about not permitting network access does not apply to the use of modems on election night to transmit unofficial polling place results to the central office,’’ the commission’s election guidelines state. ‘‘The technical expertise required to intercept and alter a telephone communication without detection is extremely complex. Therefore, it is unlikely that anyone will be able to intercept and alter these results without detection.’’The document doesn’t address the risk of someone hacking into voting machines via the modem, but vendors insist that the machines have protections to prevent this. Election officials also assert that routine procedures they perform would detect if someone altered transmitted votes or machine software. Experts, however, say the procedures are inadequate to detect altered software, and that vendor claims about security can’t be trusted, because of their long history of implementing security poorly. Federal labs responsible for certifying voting equipment don’t test the vulnerability of the modems to hacking, so there’s no independent verification of vendor claims.‘‘What I’ve seen in the past 10 years is that the vendors have absolutely fumbled every single attempt in security,’’ says Jacob D. Stauffer, vice president of operations for Coherent Cyber, who has conducted voting-machine security assessments for California’s secretary of state for a decade. In a report Stauffer and colleagues published last year about their recent assessment of ES&amp;S machines, they found the voting machines and election-management systems to be rife with security problems.With Russia expected to intensify efforts to influence American elections this year and beyond, American election security has never been in sharper relief. But experts say that blindness to the risks posed by modems puts the integrity of American elections in grave danger.‘‘The incorrect assertion that voting machines or voting systems can’t be hacked by remote attackers because they are ‘not connected to the internet’ is not just wrong, it’s damaging,’’ says Susan Greenhalgh, a spokeswoman for the National Election Defense Coalition, an elections integrity group. ‘‘This oft-repeated myth instills a false sense of security that is inhibiting officials and lawmakers from urgently requiring that all voting systems use paper ballots and that all elections be robustly audited.’’More than 350,000 voting machines are used in the United States today, according to an estimate by Verified Voting, a nonprofit that tracks voting equipment use and policy. The machines fall primarily into two categories — direct-recording electronic machines and optical-scan systems. With DREs, voters touch a screen or button or turn a dial to make their selections, and the ballots and votes are entirely digital; some DREs are outfitted with printers to produce a voter-verifiable paper trail. With optical-scan machines, which many states have purchased in recent years to replace their DREs, voters make their selections on a full-size paper ballot, which gets fed into an optical scanner and can be used after an election to verify the digital results. (Hybrid machines are also available which combine touch-screen voting with a scannable paper ballot.)With both kinds of voting systems, digital votes are stored on memory cards or flash drives that are collected from machines after an election and are supposed to be used for official results. But many machines also have embedded or externally connected modems to transmit unofficial results rapidly on election night.The top voting machine maker in the country, ES&amp;S, distributes modems or modeming capability with many of its DRE and optical-scan machines. (Some states, including California and New York, require voting machine makers to not only remove communication devices from their systems but also eliminate communications capability from their software for security.) About 35,000 of ES&amp;S’s newest precinct-based optical scanner, the DS200, are used in 31 states and the District of Columbia and can be outfitted with either analog or cellular modems to transmit results. Maryland, Maine, Rhode Island and the District of Columbia use only DS200 machines statewide (though they also use two other systems specifically for disabled voters and absentee ballots); Florida and Wisconsin use the DS200s in dozens of counties, and other states use them to lesser degrees. ES&amp;S’s earlier model M100 optical scanners, which also can be equipped with modems, have long been used in Michigan — a critical swing state in the 2016 presidential election — though the state is upgrading to DS200 machines this year, as well as machines made by Dominion Voting Systems. Dominion’s machines use external serial-port modems that are connected to machines after an election ends.Not every polling place with embedded modems uses them to transmit results. Richard Rydecki, Wisconsin’s state elections supervisor, says counties in his state decide individually whether to transmit election results. Fred Woodhams, spokesman from the Michigan Department of State, said the same is true in his state. But even if a precinct doesn’t use its modems, having them embedded in voting machines is still a risk, experts say.“If it is available for use” by an attacker, says Stauffer, “it can be used.”ES&amp;S insists that its security measures would prevent hackers exploiting or interfering with modem transmissions. According to a one-page document the company provided, the voting machines digitally sign voting results before transmitting them via modem and encrypt them in transit using SFTP — secure file transfer protocol. The election-management systems that receive results then check the signature to authenticate the data transmission. This theoretically means results couldn’t be swapped out and replaced with different ones. That is, unless an attacker can obtain ES&amp;S’s signing key.These keys, explains noted cryptographer and computer-security expert Matt Blaze, ‘‘need to be stored in the machine, and if they’re stored in the machine and under control of the software, any compromise of that software could be used potentially to extract” them. Blaze, who teaches at the University of Pennsylvania, says that ES&amp;S machines he examined for Ohio’s secretary of state a decade ago had a number of security problems, including with key security.As for using the modems to hack into machines and compromise their software, ES&amp;S says its modems are configured to only initiate calls, not receive them, and can make calls only after an election ends, preventing anyone from dialing in or having them dial out at other times. The company also says results are not sent directly to the election-management systems but to a data communications server that operates as a DMZ, or ‘‘demilitarized zone,’’ separated from the internet and the election-management system by firewalls. The election-management system accesses the DMZ to collect the results.ES&amp;S advises election officials to configure the external firewall that protects the DMZ to only accept connections from IP addresses assigned to the voting machines. And election officials in Rhode Island, which uses ES&amp;S’s DS200 machines with modems, told me that the modems only transmit for about a minute, which wouldn’t be sufficient to hack into voting machines or results servers.But Stauffer and others say none of this would prevent a skilled hacker from penetrating the machines via their modems. Although overwriting the machine’s firmware, or voting software, would be difficult to do in just a minute, Stauffer says installing malware on the underlying operating system would not. An attacker might be able to do this directly through the modem to the voting machine, or infect the election-management system on the other end and install malware that gets passed to voting machines when officials program future elections. In either case, the malware could disable modem controls on the voting machines and make the devices secretly dial out to whatever number an attacker wants whenever he wants, while also altering system logs to erase evidence of these calls. This would let an attacker connect to the machines before or during an election to install malicious voting software that subverts results.In such a scenario, the demilitarized zone concept, which ES&amp;S says protects the election-management system, could actually become a liability, since it’s trusted by the election-management systems that communicate with it, says J. Alex Halderman, professor of computer science and engineering at the University of Michigan. Halderman calls the DMZ a ‘‘very risky setup in an election context, given that an attacker who infiltrates the EMS can tamper with election results or spread malware to voting machines.’’The firewalls surrounding the DMZ can have their own vulnerabilities, and Halderman points out that if an attacker can send corrupt data through the firewall to the DMZ, then he can exploit vulnerabilities in the election-management system when the two communicate. This isn’t speculation, Halderman insists: A study done in 2007 for Ohio found multiple vulnerabilities in ES&amp;S’s Unity election management system that would let an attacker send it malformed election data in order to run malicious code on the system. ‘‘The fact that these election management systems are networked at all should be alarming to anyone who understands election cybersecurity,’’ Halderman says.A secure voting machine should prevent untrusted or unsigned software from being installed on it. But last year when Stauffer and colleagues examined an optical-scan machine that ES&amp;S submitted to California for testing and certification, they discovered the system wasn’t authenticating code during installation or wasn’t doing it properly. They were able to modify legitimate ES&amp;S election software and reinstall it on the machine unsigned. Although they conducted their test with physical access to the machines, because California machines don’t have embedded modems, Stauffer says an adversary with remote access through the modem would theoretically be able to do the same. Their rogue modification was designed to erase all election data from the machine at the close of an election. A ‘‘capable-enough adversary,’’ says Stauffer, might potentially go much further, with an update that would ‘‘make a candidate more favorable than the other.’’Douglas W. Jones, a computer-science professor at the University of Iowa, has examined multiple voting systems for state and local election officials over the years. ‘‘Nothing I know about the machines would defend against’’ an attack where a hacker altered voting software.. ‘‘So this is a vulnerability that should be taken quite seriously.’’Even if ES&amp;S were to prevent someone from loading unsigned voting software, an attacker could still install malware on a voting or election-management machine via the modem connection, according to experts, if the underlying operating system software had unpatched security vulnerabilities. In fact, many voting machines across the country run on years-old unpatched Windows and Linux operating systems, partly because counties don’t have the staff to maintain the systems and have long believed that the systems are secure, and partly because (due to long delays in getting new or altered versions of voting machines certified) voting machine vendors often sell systems without the latest patches installed.The operating systems on the election-management systems ES&amp;S submitted to California for testing and certification last year were missing dozens of critical security patches, including one for the vulnerability the WannaCry ransomware used to spread among Windows machines. Two optical-scan machines ES&amp;S submitted for certification had nine unpatched security vulnerabilities between them — all classified by the security industry as critical.Just last month, Cisco, which makes the model of firewall used with ES&amp;S election-management systems, announced a critical vulnerability in its devices that would let a remote hacker take full control of the firewalls and get at the systems they protect. News reports last week indicated hackers are already attempting to exploit vulnerable Cisco firewalls in the wild.ES&amp;S says it’s working with customers to patch their firewalls, but if they use the firewalls ‘‘according to recommended procedures,’’ they can mitigate the vulnerability. Those procedures include configuring the firewalls to only accept connections from known and trusted IP addresses ‘‘and shutting off the system when not in use.’’Jones says the better solution is for states to seriously reassess their use of modems if they want to protect upcoming elections, particularly because hackers wouldn’t need to successfully alter voting machine software to have a detrimental effect; they could just leave behind evidence that they got in.‘‘This is an extraordinarily powerful tool if all you want to do is simply discredit democracy,’’ Jones says. ‘‘All you have to do is create the appearance of something having happened, even if it hasn’t happened.’’Kim Zetter has covered cybersecurity for more than a decade. She is the author of ‘‘Countdown to Zero Day: Stuxnet and the Launch of the World’s First Digital Weapon.’’Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine delivered to your inbox every week.
Supported byBy Ian AustenOTTAWA — Canada is expecting foreign interference in its national election in October, and is considering stronger regulation of social media companies to ensure they block meddling in the voting, the minister responsible for election integrity said on Monday.The minister spoke after the release of an updated report by Canada’s electronic eavesdropping and security agency on online interference by other countries in the Canadian election.“We judge it very likely that Canadian voters will encounter some form of foreign cyber interference related to the 2019 federal election,” the report said. “However, at this time, it is improbable that this foreign cyber interference will be of the scale of Russian activity against the 2016 United States presidential election.”“Canada is a target of choice for those who seek to undermine our democracy,” said the minister, Karina Gould, at a news conference in Ottawa.The report does not indicate what countries are likely to attack Canada, and both Harjit Sajjan, the defense minister, and Shelly Bruce, who heads the electronic security agency, declined to elaborate.Ms. Gould also criticized Google, Twitter and Facebook for not providing the Canadian government with the same degree of information they have offered Europe about their efforts to mitigate possible election interference.“We have not really seen that much progress with them,” she said, adding that the major social media platforms have declined to give the government regular updates about what they are observing and what they are doing to prevent any misbehavior.“There’s a lot left to be desired in terms of how seriously they’re taking these issues,” she said.Kevin Chan, the head of public policy for Facebook Canada, said the company plans to introduce new rules for paid political advertising in Canada and is making efforts to block foreign meddling in elections.“We take the protection of election integrity on our platform extremely seriously at Facebook, and we want to be a force for good in Canadian democracy,” he said in a statement.Colin McKay, head of government policy at Google Canada, said the company had met several times with several branches of the Canadian government to discuss “transparency, cybersecurity and information.”The company is also working with Canada’s Canadian Center for Cyber Security, a government agency, on preventing malicious attacks. Twitter declined to comment.“We have every intention of continuing our close work with government to protect Canada’s democratic institutions and election activities,” Mr. McKay said in a statement.The company did not address Ms. Gould’s call for formal regulation.Ms. Gould said Canada was reviewing its laws to see how they can be used to force action by online companies, and also considering new legislation.It is also reviewing steps by other countries, including Britain’s proposal on Monday to set up a social media regulator, and recent changes to Australia’s laws that, among other things, could lead to the jailing of executives from social media companies if they do not “expeditiously” remove content with graphic violence on their platforms.“We are having active conversations with our partners and allies around the world as to what this would look like in the Canadian context,” Ms. Gould said.She added, “The platforms have been able to avoid being held to account for what takes place on their platforms for too long.”Separately on Monday, Facebook banned several Canadians and groups that promote white supremacy.In a statement, the company said it was shutting down accounts held by Faith Goldy, a far-right former mayoral candidate in Toronto, and several groups including the Soldiers of Odin and the Canadian Nationalist Front.The report was issued by the Communications Security Establishment, which is a branch of the military and headed by Ms. Bruce. It issued a similar report in 2017.Earlier this year, the government set up a committee with representatives from the civil service, the security service and the Royal Canadian Mounted Police to look for signs of interference in this year’s vote.The report found that any interference is likely to be limited to the spread of misinformation during the campaign. It concluded that any interference in voting results was highly unlikely because Canada still uses paper ballots in national votes.
Supported byBy Nicole PerlrothSAN FRANCISCO — Ten years ago, Google was hacked by the Chinese military in one of the most startling cyberattacks on an American company by government-affiliated agents.This week, Chronicle, a security start-up owned by Google’s parent company, Alphabet, plans to bring some of what it learned from that incident to other companies through a widely anticipated new product called Backstory.The idea, company executives said, is simple: Backstory will make Alphabet’s vast storage, indexing and search abilities available to other companies, allowing them to search through giant volumes of data, going years back, to trace the back story of a malicious attack.Chronicle is hardly the only company doing this. Dozens of companies promise so-called big data threat intelligence and storage. But many of their customers can’t afford to pay to search through huge amounts of information.Chronicle will charge customers by their number of employees.The hack on Google, called Operation Aurora, was historic for an unusual reason: It was the first time a Chinese government hacking victim confronted its attacker.Inside the company, Sergey Brin, one of Google’s co-founders, made it his personal mission to make sure something like Aurora never happened again. Google, known for its motto “Don’t Be Evil,” had a new motto about its cybersecurity: “Never again.”Google poached cyberexperts from the National Security Agency and Silicon Valley. It built a threat analysis group on a par with those at the top intelligence agencies and designed a new security infrastructure. It also created a new team, called Google Project Zero, to hunt for critical security flaws in technology outside Google.“When the Chinese attacked in 2010, that was an entire wake-up call for us; our entire attitude changed,” said Eric Schmidt, a member of Alphabet’s board of directors who was chief executive of Google at the time of incident, in an interview.Google turned the company’s storage, search and computational power into a security weapon of sorts. Whenever something malicious appeared on the internet, Google could search its entire network — years back — in minutes to see if it had ever touched its systems.For many companies, that is a remarkably difficult task. The most popular services for storing that kind of security data are companies, like Splunk, that charge by the amount of data indexed.Inside Alphabet’s X, the company’s “moonshot factory” where Chronicle got its start, are all sorts of futuristic gadgets, from electricity-generating kites to autonomous delivery drones. By comparison, what Chronicle is doing is notably practical.Chronicle was founded by Mike Wiacek, who started Google’s threat analysis group after studying threats at the N.S.A., and Stephen Gillett, the former chief information officer at Starbucks and chief operating officer at Symantec.They first started discussing the company’s plans publicly more than a year ago, worrying start-ups doing similar work. But Mr. Wiacek and Mr. Gillett said they were interested in collaborating with other companies.Mr. Wiacek said others inside Alphabet’s X headquarters often asked him what he was doing there. “This is a moonshot, I tell them,” he said. “Just because it has an air of practicality about it, and doesn’t sound like science fiction, makes it no less audacious.”Follow Nicole Perlroth on Twitter: @nicoleperlroth
Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Via Apple Podcasts | Via RadioPublic | Via StitcherThe story of Facebook in the past few years has been that of a company slow to understand how powerful it has become. But an investigation by The New York Times finds that once Facebook’s leaders understood the problems they faced, they sought to conceal them.On today’s episode:Nicholas Confessore, a political and investigative reporter for The Times.Sheera Frenkel, who covers cybersecurity for The Times.Background reading:Read the Times investigation of how Mark Zuckerberg and Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook’s top executives, navigated a series of crises.Here are six takeaways from the investigation.Mr. Zuckerberg acknowledged missteps but defended the social network on Thursday. “To suggest that we weren’t interested in knowing the truth, or that we wanted to hide what we knew,” he said, “is simply untrue.”Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Follow Michael Barbaro on Twitter: @mikiebarb. And if you’re interested in advertising with “The Daily,” write to us at thedaily-ads@nytimes.com.Nicholas Confessore and Sheera Frenkel contributed reporting.“What Facebook Knew and Tried to Hide” was produced by Andy Mills and Theo Balcomb, and edited by Lisa Tobin.“The Daily” is produced by Theo Balcomb, Annie Brown, Jessica Cheung, Lynsea Garrison, Michael Simon Johnson, Andy Mills, Neena Pathak, Rachel Quester, Ike Sriskandarajah, Clare Toeniskoetter and Alexandra Leigh Young, and edited by Larissa Anderson, Paige Cowett and Wendy Dorr. Lisa Tobin is our executive producer. Samantha Henig is our editorial director. Brad Fisher is our technical manager. Chris Wood is our sound engineer. Our theme music is by Jim Brunberg and Ben Landsverk of Wonderly.
Supported bySecurity flaws threaten our privacy and bank accounts. So why aren’t we fixing them?By Cooper QuintinMr. Quintin is a senior staff technologist at the Electronic Frontier Foundation.America’s cellular network is as vital to society as the highway system and power grids. Vulnerabilities in the mobile phone infrastructure threaten not only personal privacy and security, but also the country’s. According to intelligence reports, spies are eavesdropping on President Trump’s cellphone conversations and using fake cellular towers in Washington to intercept phone calls. Cellular communication infrastructure, the system at the heart of modern communication, commerce and governance, is woefully insecure. And we are doing nothing to fix it.This should be at the top of our cybersecurity agenda, yet policymakers and industry leaders have been nearly silent on the issue. While government officials are looking the other way, an increasing number of companies are selling products that allow buyers to take advantage of these vulnerabilities. Spying tools, which are becoming increasingly affordable, include cell-site simulators (commonly known by the brand name Stingray), which trick cellphones into connecting with them without the cellphone owners’ knowledge. Sophisticated programs can exploit vulnerabilities in the backbone of the global telephone system (known as Signaling System 7, or SS7) to track mobile users, intercept calls and text messages, and disrupt mobile communications. These attacks have real financial consequences. In 2017, for example, criminals took advantage of SS7 weaknesses to carry out financial fraud by redirecting and intercepting text messages containing one-time passwords for bank customers in Germany. The criminals then used the passwords to steal money from the victims’ accounts. How did we get here, and why is our cellular infrastructure so insecure? The international mobile communications system is built on top of several layers of technology, parts of which are more than 40 years old. Some of these old technologies are insecure, others have never had a proper audit and many simply haven’t received the attention needed to secure them properly. The protocols that form the underpinnings of the mobile system weren’t built with security in mind.SS7, invented in 1975, is still the protocol that allows telephone networks all over the world to talk to one another. It was built on the assumption that anyone who can connect to the network is a trusted network operator. When it was created, there were only 10 companies using SS7. Today, there are hundreds of companies all over the world connected to SS7, making it far more likely that credentials to the system will be leaked or sold. Anyone who can connect to the SS7 network can use it to track your location or eavesdrop on your phone calls. A more recent alternative to SS7 called Diameter  suffers from many of the same problems.Another protocol, GSM, invented in 1991, allows your cellphone to communicate with a cell tower to make and receive calls and transmit data. The older generation of GSM, known as 2G, doesn’t verify that the tower that your phone connects to is authentic, making it easy for anyone to use a cell-site simulator and impersonate a cell tower to obtain your location or eavesdrop on your communications. Larger carriers have already begun dismantling their 2G systems, which is a good start, since later generations of GSM such as 3G, 4G and 5G solve many of its problems. Yet our phones all still support 2G and most have no way to disable it, making them susceptible to attacks. What’s more, research has shown that 3G, 4G, and even 5G have vulnerabilities  that may allow new generations of cell-site simulators to continue working.Nobody could have envisioned how deeply ingrained cellular technology would become in our society, or how easy and lucrative exploiting it would be. Companies from China, Russia, Israel and elsewhere are making cell-site simulators and providing access to the SS7 network at prices affordable even to the smallest criminal organizations. It is increasingly easy to build a cell-site simulator at home, for no more than the cost of a fast-food meal. Spies all over the world — as well as drug cartels — have realized the power of these technologies.So far, industry and policymakers have largely dragged their feet when it comes to blocking cell-site simulators and SS7 attacks. Senator Ron Wyden, one of the few lawmakers vocal about this issue, sent a letter in August encouraging the Department of Justice to “be forthright with federal courts about the disruptive nature of cell-site simulators.” No response has ever been published. The lack of action could be because it is a big task — there are hundreds of companies and international bodies involved in the cellular network. The other reason could be that intelligence and law enforcement agencies have a vested interest in exploiting these same vulnerabilities. But law enforcement has other effective tools that are unavailable to criminals and spies. For example, the police can work directly with phone companies, serving warrants and Title III wiretap orders. In the end, eliminating these vulnerabilities is just as valuable for law enforcement as it is for everyone else.As it stands, there is no government agency that has the power, funding and mission to fix the problems. Large companies such as AT&amp;T, Verizon, Google and Apple have not been public about their efforts, if any exist. This needs to change. To start, companies need to stop supporting insecure technologies such as 2G, and government needs a mandate to buy devices solely from companies that have disabled 2G. Similarly, companies need to work with cybersecurity experts on a security standard for SS7. Government should buy services only from companies that can demonstrate that their networks meet this standard.Finally, this problem can’t be solved by domestic regulation alone. The cellular communications system is international, and it will take an international effort to secure it. We wouldn’t tolerate gaping potholes in our highways or sparking power lines. Securing our mobile infrastructure is just as imperative. Policymakers and industries around the world must work together to achieve this common goal.Cooper Quintin is a senior staff technologist with the Electronic Frontier Foundation, where he investigates digital privacy and security threats to human-rights defenders, journalists and vulnerable populations.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.
Supported byBy Dan BilefskyMONTREAL — In recent weeks, some viewers of “Hockey Night in Canada” have been jolted by the sight of a distinctive red chrysanthemum logo conspicuously displayed during the broadcast of a sports program as quintessentially Canadian as the national game itself.It is the logo for Huawei, the Chinese telecommunications giant whose chief financial officer, Meng Wanzhou, is out on bail in Vancouver, with a GPS tracking device around her ankle, as she awaits possible extradition to the United States to face fraud charges.Advertising on “Hockey Night” is just one example of the expanding footprint of Huawei in Canada, where it has invested a total of $500 million in research and development, including into 5G technology at leading Canadian universities.It also has research facilities in Ottawa, Waterloo, Montreal, and Vancouver; is providing high-speed internet to remote areas of the country; and employs about 1,100 people in Canada.Now, the company finds itself at the center of a rift in Chinese-Canadian relations caused by Ms. Meng’s case, which includes charges of evading United States economic sanctions on Iran. Following her arrest, China detained several Canadians and sentenced a Canadian drug smuggler to death, in what many here viewed as retaliation. If Canada decides to extradite her, which legal experts say is likely, there are concerns of significant reprisals.Even before Ms. Meng’s arrest, which has incensed China, some experts were warning that Huawei’s growing presence in Canada could undermine the country’s economic interests and security.Her case has only intensified those worries.Canadians should take notice that “a company that is invested hugely in Canada is facing serious allegations of fraud,” said David Mulroney, Canada’s ambassador to China from 2009 to 2012.He noted that Huawei had been adept in its approach to the Canadian market, using savvy marketing techniques.“The message that Huawei is on your side in hockey is very shrewd,” Mr. Mulroney said, referring to the “Hockey Night” sponsorship. “Hockey is as close to the Canadian psyche as you can get.”Huawei’s attempt to woo Canadians comes as Canada’s security agencies are undertaking a national security review of whether Huawei technology should be allowed in Canada’s nascent 5G telecommunications network. That review will determine if Canada will accede to pressure from the United States to ban Huawei products from its 5G wireless networks amid concerns they could be used by the Chinese government for espionage.[Want more Canadian coverage in your inbox? Sign up for our weekly Canada Letter newsletter.]Australia and New Zealand have already followed the United States by blocking Huawei from supplying technology for 5G infrastructure.Scott Bardsley, a spokesman for the Canadian public safety minister, Ralph Goodale, declined to comment specifically on Huawei, but said the government was carefully assessing the security challenges and potential threats of 5G technology.“We will ensure that our networks are kept safe for Canadians,” he said.Some experts argue against what they say is American demonizing of Huawei and say the Chinese company owes its success in Canada to making reasonably priced, good quality products consumers like to buy.But former government officials have expressed concern.Richard Fadden, a former director of the Canadian Security Intelligence Service, who also was a national security adviser to two prime ministers, said Huawei represented a clear cybersecurity threat to Canada since Chinese companies like Huawei were required, by law, to respond to directions from the Chinese state, which collects intellectual property and intelligence from Western countries, including Canada.“I would counsel the government to forbid the use of Huawei equipment in the development of our 5G network,” Mr. Fadden wrote in an email.He added that any controls or firewalls that worked today would eventually be overcome by China’s “very sophisticated and ingenious security agencies.”At a news conference last week in Toronto, Huawei’s chairman, Liang Hua, insisted the company posed no threat. “On issues of cybersecurity, Huawei would never do anything to harm any country, any organization or any individual,” Mr. Liang said.He said there was no law in China requiring companies “to install back doors or collect foreign intelligence.”He added that if Huawei ever received such a request from the Chinese state, it would not execute it because the law does not require it to do so.Sitting in front of a sign with the words “10 Years” — representing Huawei’s decade of doing business in Canada — superimposed on a red Canadian maple leaf, Mr. Liang expressed Huawei’s continued commitment to Canada and praised the country as “an open and inclusive place.”He also commented on Ms. Meng’s case.“I hope that the Canadian legal system could bring justice back to her,” he said, adding that the American pressure on its allies over Huawei had provided “a free round of advertisement for the company.”Perhaps nowhere has Huawei’s influence in Canada been more present than in research and development, including at leading Canadian academic institutions, where it has made big investments in research.These investments have generated alarm that, in return for money, cash-strapped Canadian universities are relinquishing control to Huawei of intellectual property related to 5G, while making themselves vulnerable to infiltration by China’s security apparatus.Christian Chua, president of research at Huawei Canada, told reporters last week at the news conference that Huawei shared its intellectual property with the Canadian universities with which it partnered.Wesley Wark, an intelligence expert at the University of Ottawa, noted that universities were typically not vigilant when it came to security issues.He added, however, that the current “scaremongering” about Huawei was misplaced given that both China and Huawei had too much to lose if they spied on the West and lost access to those markets.Nevertheless, concerns that Huawei’s products and infrastructure, including smartphones or cellular base stations, could be used by Chinese intelligence services have been swirling on some Canadian college campuses, including McGill University in Montreal.In December, Canadian Security Intelligence Service officials briefed about 15 researchers there who receive funding from Huawei about national security risks.According to Vincent Allaire, a spokesman for McGill, the spy agency warned the researchers, among other things, that the technology they were working on in partnership with Huawei included “dual-use technology” that could potentially be used for military purposes.Officials at other universities disputed there were any major risks involved in the research partnerships.John-Paul Heale, who oversees company-sponsored research at the University of British Columbia, said Huawei had contributed about $8 million for 14 research projects over three years.He stressed that the university could not become an outpost for secret research on behalf of the Chinese state because all research was required to be published in peer-reviewed journals.“Our research is not happening in the shadows,” he said.While Huawei’s business has been curtailed in the United States amid spying fears, the company is banking on the fact that in Canada, the desire for reasonably priced smartphones and high-speed internet is what ultimately matters to consumers.That appears to be the case in Lac La Hache, British Columbia, population 258, a rural community about 300 miles from Vancouver, where Huawei has partnered with the internet provider ABC Communications to provide high-speed internet.Robert Fry, owner of Cariboo Radio station, said he currently has to commute 45 minutes each day to another town that has an internet connection fast enough to operate a web-based radio station.Thanks to Huawei technology, he said he hopes to be able to work locally and save $20,000 a year.“There are fears that China is corrupt and watching what we do and some people are scared they could spy on us,” he said. “But I’m not worried about that. What matters to me is getting high-speed internet.”Lindsey Wiebe contributed reporting from Toronto.
Supported byBy Nellie BowlesSYDNEY, Australia — A new law in Australia gives law enforcement authorities the power to compel tech-industry giants like Apple to create tools that would circumvent the encryption built into their products.The law, the Telecommunications and Other Legislation Amendment (Assistance and Access) Act 2018, applies only to tech products used or sold in Australia. But its impact could be global: If Apple were to build a so-called back door for iPhones sold in Australia, the authorities in other countries, including the United States, could force the company to use that same tool to assist their investigations.The Australian law went into effect last month. It is one of the most assertive efforts by lawmakers to rein in tech companies, which have argued for decades that unbreakable encryption is an imperative part of protecting the private communications of their customers.In recent years, law enforcement officials have complained that tough encryption has made it impossible for them to gain access to the online discussions of crime suspects, particularly in time-sensitive terror investigations.The tension between tech and law enforcement came to a head about four years ago when Apple resisted a federal request to help investigators gain access to a locked iPhone that had belonged to a man who took part in a shooting that killed 14 people in San Bernardino, Calif.The Federal Bureau of Investigation eventually found a way around the iPhone’s security without Apple’s help. But if Apple had already created a workaround — a back door, in industry terms — to sell phones in Australia, the American authorities could have simply ordered Apple to use the tool.“This may be an encryption back door for the U.S.,” said Sharon Bradford Franklin, director of surveillance and cybersecurity policy for the New America think tank’s Open Technology Institute. “A back door to an encryption back door.”The Australian law has limited oversight mechanisms. A notice sent to a company must be “reasonable and proportionate,” and the authorities must have a warrant to gain access to a phone or service. But the agency issuing the notice decides what is reasonable.There is an appeals process if a company is asked to build a new interception capability. A firm can ask an independent assessment panel consisting of a technical expert and a former judicial officer to review the notice.The law says the Australian authorities cannot ask a company to build universal decryption capabilities or introduce systemwide weaknesses. But security experts and tech companies like Apple said that did not reflect what they would have to do to comply with an order. It is impossible, for example, to create a workaround for one iPhone’s encryption without potentially introducing something that could work for all of them, they said.“All of Australian technology is tarnished by it,” said Mike Cannon-Brookes, one of the founders of Atlassian, a business software company that is among Australia’s biggest tech companies.Australia is a member of the so-called Five Eyes intelligence alliance, and it is not the only country in the alliance with a law like this. Britain passed the Investigatory Powers Act in 2016. For British law enforcement to gain access to data, it must first ask a judicial approver.“We’re not the first,” said Michelle Price, chief executive of the nonprofit Australian Cyber Security Growth Network. “But Australia’s version has gone much further.”Apple officials called the law “dangerously ambiguous” and “alarming.”“Encryption is simply math,” Apple wrote in a statement submitted to the Australian Parliament’s Joint Committee on Intelligence and Security on Oct. 12. “Any process that weakens the mathematical models that protect user data for anyone will by extension weaken the protections for everyone.”But politicians said the risk of encryption technology’s being used by terrorists was too significant. Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull of Australia said in July, “The laws of mathematics are very commendable, but the only law that applies in Australia is the law of Australia.”Technology companies in the United States have argued that they cannot be compelled to create tools for breaking the encryption in their products because computer code is a kind of free speech protected under the First Amendment. But building tools to satisfy the Australian authorities would essentially make that argument moot. Countries around the world could demand access to the tool.Apple is hardly the only tech company that could feel the impact of the Australian law. Anyone with a website is considered a communications provider, subject to the law. Any company that “provides an electronic service that has one or more end-users in Australia” is required to comply.A long list of companies meets that description, such as smartphone makers and Facebook and its WhatsApp messaging service.“Once WhatsApp, for example, builds a system at the behest of the Australians, everyone gets to use it,” said Nate Cardozo, the senior information security counsel on the Electronic Frontier Foundation’s legal team, who has studied the new law.The law allows government agencies like the Australian Secret Intelligence Service or the Australian Federal Police to compel tech companies to install software on a user’s device to get around encryption. It can also compel the company not to alert the user.“So if WhatsApp gets one of these notices and does not comply, they’re subject to asset seizure and even hypothetically having executives hauled into jail for contempt if they refuse to do so,” Mr. Cardozo said.There is confusion about other secrecy requirements of the law. For example, would it require employees who received requests to keep them secret from their employers? The Australian Department of Home Affairs, which coordinates strategy and leadership of the country’s national security policy, says it would not. But security experts at the Electronic Frontier Foundation and at companies like the password manager 1Password say it is actually unclear.Australia does not have a strong tech industry, but it is growing, with investors and start-ups and a few established companies. And in the tightknit tech community that does exist, the new law has been a gut punch.“We never thought it would pass,” said Alan Jones, chief executive of M8 Ventures, a tech investment firm in Sydney. “We all just figured that Australia’s political leaders would consider the expert advice that told them this was nuts.”Sarah Moran, the chief executive of Girl Geek Academy, which teaches young women to code, said she had planned to begin tech start-ups in Australia until the law passed.“I was looking to found two tech companies, but why would you build tech here now?” she asked. “I don’t think the government understands how drastically it impacts not just the tech that’s built here but also the enthusiasm and entrepreneurial investment that Australians will be willing to make.”Ms. Moran, who is based in Melbourne, said she was questioning even the program she currently runs. “Why would I tell young girls to go build tech here if there’s not going to be any tech industry?” she asked.Casey Ellis, 37, was raised in Sydney but lives in San Francisco, where he runs a cybersecurity firm called Bugcrowd. He has already heard about companies that have become wary of hiring Australian firms, he said.“People are factoring it in as a risk when you’re looking at hiring an Australian now,” Mr. Ellis said. “It’s causing a chilling effect around Australian companies.”Follow Nellie Bowles on Twitter: @NellieBowles.Paul Mozur contributed reporting from Hong Kong.Want more Australia coverage and discussion? Sign up for the weekly Australia Letter, start your day with your local Morning Briefing and join us in our Facebook group.
Supported byThey haven’t stopped trying to influence our elections. Indeed, they may be busier than ever.By Jonathon Morgan and Ryan FoxMr. Morgan and Mr. Fox run a cybersecurity company.Since the 2016 United States presidential election, which Russian operatives influenced through a coordinated campaign of disinformation on social media, platforms like Twitter and Facebook have taken steps to address the problem. Thousands of “sock puppet” personas with hundreds of thousands of followers have been taken down on Facebook, for example, and cannot easily be rebuilt. Twitter has reduced the risk that propaganda is spread through automated accounts, or bots.Such efforts may be helping. The consensus among researchers monitoring the 2018 midterm elections is that there has been less of the specific sort of interference the Russians engaged in two years ago, when they attempted to aggravate social tensions in the United States and foster distrust of our democratic institutions.But an analysis by Kris Shaffer, a senior analyst for our cybersecurity company, suggests that while these measures may have rendered some of the Russian tactics of 2016 less effective, they haven’t fully stopped Russian influence operations. In many instances, they seem to have merely caused Russia to shift or develop new tactics.Indeed, our company is currently detecting more overall activity in real time from continuing Russian online influence operations targeting the midterm elections than has been disclosed by social media platforms or detected by researchers during the same period before the election in 2016.In the past month, our researchers have collected more than 26 million social media posts concerning the 2018 midterms. This data set includes a large portion of all relevant content on Twitter as well as a smaller targeted sample of all relevant content on Facebook.We have also identified more than 400 websites that our analysis indicates are likely to be Russian propaganda outlets aimed at American audiences. More than 100 of these websites we have confirmed as under the direction of the Russian government or we believe to be Russian with a very high degree of confidence.In the month of October alone, we tracked 110,000 social media posts that referenced a United States midterm candidate, topic or hashtag and contained a link to one of these websites. More than 10,000 of these posts contained a link to one of the websites we have either confirmed as Russian-directed or believe to be Russian with a very high degree of confidence.The top three websites linked to these social media posts are the site of RT, Russia’s state-financed international cable network (5,275 links); The Duran, a right-wing news and opinion site (1,328 links); and Sputnik, a news and commentary site run by the Russian government (1,148 links).We have also identified 1,451 social media posts aimed specifically at midterm voters from social media accounts assessed with high confidence as belonging directly to Russian influence operations. These posts are largely focused on the geopolitics of the Middle East, the Saudi-assassinated journalist Jamal Khashoggi and the Supreme Court confirmation hearings for Brett Kavanaugh.Last month, the most-shared article of known Russian origin for the month on Twitter was an article from The Duran purporting to show how groups financed by the billionaire Democratic fund-raiser George Soros “plotted with Google, Facebook, Twitter and other social media platforms to eliminate conservative ‘right wing propaganda.’”The Russia-linked social media accounts were active during the Kavanaugh hearings, drawing attention to sexual and domestic abuse allegations against various 2018 Democratic candidates and potential 2020 Democratic presidential candidates. They have been amplifying anti-immigrant sentiment, including conspiracy theories about the caravan of migrants in Central America, and have promoted the idea that the mail-bomb campaign of the Trump supporter Cesar Sayoc Jr. was a Democratic plot.Because of the numerous changes since 2016 in social media platforms and propaganda-detection practices, a straight “apple to apples” comparison of 2016 and the current election cycle is not possible. And no analysis of the social media landscape is ever complete because no one has access to all the data.But any significant detectable quantity of Americans who are unwittingly sharing Russian propaganda on their social networks is cause for concern. And based on activity that our analysis attributes to Russian government efforts, we estimate that at least hundreds of thousands, and perhaps even millions, of United States citizens have engaged with the content of Russian propaganda online. The consensus among academic researchers and Russia experts in the intelligence community is that Russia does not take a timeout from information battles. It considers itself to be in a constant state of information warfare. Its online influence operations are inexpensive and effective, and afford Russia an asymmetric advantage given the freedoms of expression afforded to Western democracies.We are heartened by the seriousness with which many social media platforms and government agencies are treating this situation. But while progress has been made since 2016, we must remain vigilant in the face of confirmed Russian efforts to undermine our democracy.Jonathon Morgan is the chief executive and Ryan Fox is the chief operating officer of New Knowledge, a cybersecurity company that monitors disinformation.
Supported byBy Jamie CondliffeGet the DealBook newsletter to make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.__________Big technology firms are on the hunt for cloud security start-ups to help their corporate customers lock down their networks.On Friday, Cisco agreed to buy the cybersecurity firm Duo Security for $2.35 billion. Duo’s technology allows companies to provide employees or customers with remote access. Its software verifies the identity of users, scans their device for security weaknesses and then lets them connect, a kind of supercharged username-and-password. Cisco said it would integrate Duo’s technology across its network, device and cloud platforms.The acquisition is part of a trend in which cloud providers and cybersecurity companies are trying to bolster the services they offer.Many businesses have turned to the cloud to run everything from human resources administration to artificial-intelligence analysis on remote computers. The attractions are numerous: The cloud allows workers to be more mobile, data to be accessible and processed from anywhere, and hardware systems to be less frequently updated.Tech giants, especially Amazon and Microsoft, have capitalized on the trend. They have built the software and huge banks of servers that allow businesses to run their systems on remote computers.The technology is a huge driver of growth at Amazon and Microsoft. In the quarter that ended June 30, for instance, Amazon’s cloud service generated $6.1 billion in net sales, up almost 50 percent from the same quarter in 2017. Gartner predicts that cloud revenue as a whole will grow by 21.4 percent in 2018.But some organizations have balked at handing their data to third parties like Amazon.“With more sensitive data and critical information needing to be protected in these cloud deployments, we believe security vendors stand to benefit,” wrote Daniel Ives, the chief strategy officer and head of technology research of GBH Insights, in a note this week.Big tech companies have turned to acquisitions in recent years to “bolster their existing offerings to customers,” Mr. Ives said. Cisco alone paid $2.7 billion for the hardware and software maker Sourcefire in 2013, $635 million for OpenDNS in 2015 and $293 million for the cloud-security provider CloudLock in 2016.But Cisco has hardly been the only buyer. In the past 12 months, Oracle acquired Zenedge, Amazon purchased  Sqrrl, VMWare struck a deal for CloudCoreo, McAfee bought Skyhigh, and Symantec acquired Skycure.The pace of such deals — particularly in identity management, like Duo — should only pick up over the coming years as companies try to strengthen their defenses against cyberthreats, Mr. Ives said.
Supported byThe online security “best practice” is still vulnerable to phishing attacks.By Josephine WolffMs. Wolff is an assistant professor at the Rochester Institute of Technology.Here’s how two-factor authentication is supposed to work: You log in to your bank account or email inbox, and after correctly entering your password, you are prompted to confirm the login through an app on your cellphone, a one-time code sent to you via text message or email, a physical YubiKey device or even a phone call. That app, text message, email, YubiKey or phone call is your “second factor,” intended to ensure that even if the person trying to log in isn’t really you, he or she still can’t gain access to your accounts without access to your phone or YubiKey.You might find two-factor authentication mildly irritating, and there’s a chance you might not even notice the extra step in the login process anymore. Regardless, you probably feel a certain comfort in the idea that at least your money or your inbox is well protected. But like so many other commonly accepted best practices in computer security, we actually know very little about how well two-factor authentication works.In December, Amnesty International released a report describing an easy-to-apply technique being used to compromise accounts protected by two-factor authentication. The hackers whom Amnesty International investigated, who were targeting accounts belonging to individuals in the Middle East and North Africa, set up phishing pages that captured not only users’ passwords but also the one-time authentication codes generated by their two-factor services.Setting up phishing websites that look like the login pages for well-known web services is a common way to steal passwords online. Here’s the way it works: Someone designs a website that looks almost exactly like Bank of America’s website and then emails you a message, purporting to be from Bank of America, warning you that your account is about to expire, or your information needs to be updated, and directing you to a fake site where you believe you’re logging into your bank account but instead are just typing your password into a website owned by scammers.This type of phishing is precisely the kind of threat that two-factor authentication is supposed to protect you against. Unlike so-called dictionary attacks — in which hackers try to guess your password by running through a dictionary of possible choices — forcing people to develop more complicated or longer passwords (a minimum of eight characters with uppercase and lowercase letters, and at least one symbol and one number) does not help at all when someone steals your password via phishing. So the password-complexity requirements that have reigned as a common (and irritating) best practice in every workplace for years are increasingly supplemented by two-factor authentication, to protect you against both dictionary attacks and phishing attacks.But it turns out that the one-time codes generated by people’s smartphones or sent via text message and email can also be phished. If you’re the hacker, all it takes is adding a component to your fake Bank of America website so that after you prompt someone for his password, you try to log in to his real Bank of America account using the password he has just provided, triggering a second-factor alert that doesn’t alarm him because he thinks he’s signing into Bank of America too. Then, on your fake phishing site, you prompt him to enter his second-factor code and use it to complete the login.The activity in Amnesty International’s report is not even the first time that two-factor authentication has been compromised in that manner. In 2014, an F.B.I. special agent, Elliott Peterson, described how malware distributed by the botnet GameOver Zeus could compromise two-factor authentication protecting bank accounts in the same way.The fact that two-factor authentication can be compromised through fairly straightforward, widely used tactics is no reason to stop using it. After all, no security tool is perfect. As long as it significantly decreases the likelihood of account compromises, two-factor authentication is still worth using. But we don’t know a lot about how much two-factor authentication actually helps protect your accounts.Google has offered its optional two-step verification system to Gmail users since 2011 but has never released any data about its effectiveness at driving down account compromises. In fact, last year Google switched all of its employees from using the Google Authenticator app for two-factor authentication to physical security-key devices that need to be inserted into a computer port to complete a login. Since making that switch, Google announced last July, none of its employee accounts have been compromised. The announcement seems to imply that the security provided through the app was not regarded as sufficient by the company for its internal accounts, even though it is what many Google users rely on. Should we all be using physical security keys? How much less effective is the Google Authenticator app? We still don’t know (though presumably, Google does).In the absence of any empirical evidence about how well two-factor authentication works, organizations have been rushing to institute it in recent years for fear of falling behind their peers. Even the federal government started rolling out two-factor authentication late last year to federal and state employees. The two-factor provider Duo Security saw its annual recurring revenue pass the $100 million mark in 2017, after increasing 135 percent in 2016. Last year Cisco purchased Duo for $2.35 billion, indicating just how valuable and ubiquitous this technology has become.The rapid rise of two-factor authentication is not a bad thing. In fact, it’s probably a good thing, but we can’t know that for sure until we learn something about how well it’s working. It makes logical sense that requiring more pieces of information to log in to an account would serve to better protect that account, but relying on common-sense justifications for computer security has misled us before. For instance, many companies require employees to change their passwords every year or every 90 days. For years, this has been commonly accepted as a best practice for security based on the idea that it makes it more difficult for hackers to use old, stolen passwords. But in fact, those mandatory password changes might sometimes do more harm than good unless the password has been compromised.Many computer security practices are propagated through misguided notions of “best practices” that businesses decide to adopt because they see everyone around them doing something and assume it must be the right choice. But just copying what everyone else is doing and calling it best practice does not actually help strengthen the security of our accounts or data. To do that, we need to be able to measure the impact of these practices using concrete data about whether they reduce instances of account compromises or stolen funds or intellectual property theft. We need the companies that operate and implement these security practices to track those metrics and be willing to release them, even when that data may not paint them in the best — or most secure — light. Otherwise, we’re left blindly adhering to supposed best practices without knowing what really works for cybersecurity.Josephine Wolff (@josephinecwolff) is an assistant professor at the Rochester Institute of Technology and the author of “You’ll See This Message When It Is Too Late: The Legal and Economic Aftermath of Cybersecurity Breaches.”Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.
Supported byOp-Ed ContributorBy Tad McGalliardThe recent cyberattack on Atlanta, in which the municipal government’s computers and related services were held hostage by a ransomware attack, is a reminder that local governments are particularly vulnerable to these and other cyberthreats.Local governments of all sizes and locations now own and operate a wide and growing array of internet-connected technology systems: employee-issued laptops, motion sensors on light poles and under pavement, mapping and informational systems inside police cars, online citizen-engagement tools and much more.Most local governments in the United States don’t have a strong grasp of the policies and procedures they should implement to protect their technology systems from attacks. This is especially concerning because the threat of a cyberattack is the most important cybersecurity problem they face, according to a survey conducted by the organization I work for, the International City/County Management Association, and the University of Maryland, Baltimore County.Forty-four percent of local governments report that they regularly face cyberattacks, on either an hourly or daily basis. More troubling is the high percentage of governments that do not know how often they are attacked (28 percent) or breached (41 percent). Further, a majority of local governments do not catalog or count attacks (54 percent).This is not just an American problem. Last month, at a conference in Tel Aviv, Tamir Pardo, the former head of Mossad, Israel’s national intelligence agency, said that most local government leaders around the world do not fully understand how serious a threat cyberattacks are and have not imaginatively assessed the consequences of inaction. He described cyberthreats as “soft nuclear weapons” that one day may be used to start and finish a war without firing a shot.So what should local governments do to improve their cybersecurity apparatus to help prevent or mitigate damage from future attacks like the one experienced in Atlanta, or from those contemplated by Mr. Pardo?First, local leaders must create a culture of cybersecurity that imagines worst-case scenarios and explores a range of solutions to mitigate threats to the ecosystem of local government technology. This should involve prioritizing funding for cybersecurity, establishing stronger cybersecurity policies and training employees in cybersecurity protocols. Success will require collaboration with local elected officials, internet-technology and cybersecurity staff members, department managers and end users.Cybersecurity is more than just the I.T. department’s problem. It must now also be a top priority along the entire chain of elected and appointed officials in and around local governments. Preventing and mitigating the effects of future attacks will require intergovernmental cooperation, because localities work together across state lines and collaborate with the federal government on crucial tasks like running elections, managing transportation and sharing intelligence.Most technological advances are transforming local governments for the better, moving them from inefficient and costly paper systems to digital systems that allow for better analysis and understanding of policy decisions. The science of analytics and big data promises even greater leaps for local governments in evidence-based policymaking. These exciting developments may one day radically alter the ways that traditional local government services are financed, operated and managed.But we cannot get lost in the excitement. We must actively prepare for cyberthreats of the sort that have been demonstrated in places like Atlanta. If smart cities and communities are the brightly lit days of the increasingly connected world of local government technology, cyberattacks are the dark and stormy nights. We don’t need to halt technological deployments and evolution, but we do need to recognize that cybersecurity is an essential counterpart.Tad McGalliard is the director of research and policy at the International City/County Management Association.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 
Supported byTimes InsiderBy Stephen HiltnerAs one of The New York Times’s three Surfacing residents, I’ve grown accustomed to entering unfamiliar places. My job is to shed light on the world’s offbeat and often misunderstood communities and subcultures, and that necessarily means stepping outside what’s familiar. Still, when I decided to attend Defcon, a freewheeling hacking and cybersecurity conference held each year in Las Vegas, disconcerting advice began pouring in from all sides.Bring a loaner laptop, said Runa Sandvik, the senior director of information security for The Times, referring to a temporary machine that could be wiped clean upon my return.Be wary of the A.T.M.s in and around the conference, said Rachel Tobac, a Defcon veteran who first suggested the story idea to me. (In the past, nearby A.T.M.s have been targeted; in 2009, a fraudulent A.T.M., aimed at stealing data, was discovered at the Riviera Hotel Casino.) Oh, and make sure all your software is up-to-date, she added.Above all else: Avoid the public Wi-Fi, several people cautioned. It can make you an easy target.The anxiety surrounding Defcon and its crowds is, of course, partly justified. (See above regarding the A.T.M.) But the general public’s apprehension about the hacking world is also a result of a persistent and pervasive characterization — in the news, in films, in novels — of hackers as uniformly nefarious characters, prone to stealing our banking information and weaponizing our private data.As is often the case, the truth is much more nuanced.Within a few hours of arriving in Vegas, I found myself seated at the front of a conference room with Chris Hadnagy, a pioneer in the field of social engineering — a branch of hacking that involves manipulating people (instead of just computer systems) to gain access to information. A social-engineering hacker, for example, might call up your cellular provider and impersonate your spouse, in hopes of hijacking your text messages — which could then be used to bypass the two-step authentication on your email account.Mr. Hadnagy, who for many years operated under the alias loganWHD, now works as a cybersecurity professional, consulting with and training companies to bolster their defenses. He also founded a nonprofit organization, Innocent Lives Foundation, that combats child predation.In other words: In a world that tends to focus on villainous hackers, he’s one of the good guys.The transition that people like Mr. Hadnagy have made — from underground hacking, using aliases, to aboveboard forms of hacking, using their real names — is the main thrust of the article that resulted from my attending Defcon. “Our clients are the Fortune 500 companies of the world,” Mr. Hadnagy said, referring to his consulting work. “You’re not going to get a giant bank to pay you if they’re hiring ‘loganWHD.’”But as is true with many of our Surfacing pieces, another goal was to broaden reader appreciation of something that’s become increasingly apparent to me this year: that many of the world’s underrepresented communities are all too often painted with a broad brush. When reporting on what’s different, it’s easy to be distracted by what’s dramatic — and to suggest that the most dramatic elements of a community represent the whole. This trap can sometimes result in reporting that caricatures and stereotypes.Engaging with virtuous hackers hasn’t blinded me to the threat of cyber criminals. The reach of Russian hackers during the 2016 presidential election, for example, is truly stunning — and the details are still coming to light. But now, every time I imagine a nefarious hacker targeting a voting database to commit a crime, I can counterbalance the thought by recalling a thoughtful conversation I had with Nick Bishop and Mike Westmacott, two hackers I met at Defcon who were diligently taking apart and testing a Diebold voting machine in an attempt to identify — and increase awareness of — its vulnerabilities.They weren’t wearing masks, nor were they hoping to undermine anyone’s vote. Freely offering up their names, they said that their goal was to help ensure the integrity of our elections.And what made our conversation dangerous wasn’t the looming threat of the public Wi-Fi. It was the power I had to misrepresent their community.Keep up with Times Insider stories on Twitter, via the Reader Center: @ReaderCenter.
Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Via Apple Podcasts | Via RadioPublic | Via StitcherA Russian news organization with ties to the 2016 election interference operation started a website called USAReally. Its stated purpose was for Americans to get uncensored news about their own country — from Russia. We spoke to the man behind it.On today’s episode:Kevin Roose, who writes about technology for The New York Times.Alexander Malkevich, the founder of the Russian website USAReally.David E. Sanger, a national security correspondent for The Times and the author of “The Perfect Weapon: War, Sabotage, and Fear in the Cyber Age.”Background reading:Some cybersecurity experts believe that a new Russian propaganda campaign is testing the boundaries of American social media companies and experimenting with techniques before the midterm elections.A look behind the scenes of Russia’s “troll factory,” where agents set out to undermine faith in the American electoral system by sowing discord online.Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Follow Kevin Roose on Twitter: @kevinroose. And if you’re interested in advertising with “The Daily,” write to us at thedaily-ads@nytimes.com.“‘I Am Not an Internet Troll’” was reported and hosted by Kevin Roose; produced by Andy Mills, with help from Theo Balcomb, Rachel Quester, Alexandra Leigh Young and Clare Toeniskoetter; and edited by Larissa Anderson, Wendy Dorr and Lisa Tobin.“The Daily” is produced by Theo Balcomb, Annie Brown, Jessica Cheung, Lynsea Garrison, Michael Simon Johnson, Andy Mills, Neena Pathak, Rachel Quester, Ike Sriskandarajah, Clare Toeniskoetter and Alexandra Leigh Young, and edited by Larissa Anderson, Paige Cowett and Wendy Dorr. Lisa Tobin is our executive producer. Samantha Henig is our editorial director. Brad Fisher is our technical manager. Chris Wood is our sound engineer. Our theme music is by Jim Brunberg and Ben Landsverk of Wonderly.
Supported byArticle of the DayBy Natalie ProulxBefore reading the article: In the article you are about to read, the Trump administration contends that the United States and China are in an “arms race” to control fifth-generation cellular networks — known as 5G. What do you know about 5G?For some context, here is the opening to “What Is 5G? Here’s What You Need to Know About the New Network.” Don Clark writes:In 2019, a big technology shift will finally begin. It’s a once-in-a-decade upgrade to our wireless systems that will start reaching mobile phone users in a matter of months.But this is not just about faster smartphones. The transition to new fifth-generation cellular networks — known as 5G for short — will also affect many other kinds of devices, including industrial robots, security cameras, drones and cars that send traffic data to one another. This new era will leap ahead of current wireless technology, known as 4G, by offering mobile internet speeds that will let people download entire movies within seconds and most likely bring big changes to video games, sports and shopping.Officials in the United States and China see 5G networks as a competitive edge. The faster networks could help spread the use of artificial intelligence and other cutting-edge technologies.— Based on this information and your own knowledge, why might the United States be in a “race” with China to dominate 5G networks?— Make some predictions: What might the world look like if the United States controlled this new technology? What would it look like if China did?Now, read just the first section of the article, “In 5G Race With China, U.S. Pushes Allies to Fight Huawei” (stop when you get to “A New Red Scare?”), and answer the following questions: 1. What are some of the ways the Trump administration is trying to prevent Huawei, China’s leading telecommunications producer, from building its 5G network?2. The administration contends that the world is engaged in a new “arms race.” What does it mean by that?3. Why does the author write that the transition to 5G will be “revolutionary”?4. The author states that what is good for consumers is also good for intelligence services and cyberattackers. In what ways will 5G be especially vulnerable to cyberattack?5. Why has the United States always been nervous about Chinese technology? Why has this fear grown more urgent with the advent of 5G?6. What is the relationship between the Chinese government and independent companies like Huawei? Why is the Trump administration wary of this relationship?7. Why does the Trump administration want to prevent Huawei from building its 5G network? Give at least two reasons.Finally, tell us more about what you think:The first section of this article explains why the Trump administration views China and Huawei as cybersecurity threats to the United States.Choose one or more additional sections of the article to read: “A New Red Scare?”; “Growing Suspicions”; “The Rise of Huawei”; or “A Global Campaign.”Then, answer the following questions:— What did you learn from this section?— Given what you have read, does Huawei seem to pose a threat to the United States?— Do you think American allies should join the Trump administration in barring Huawei from building its 5G network? Why or why not?
Supported byBy Zolan Kanno-Youngs and Michael S. SchmidtSAUSALITO, Calif. — The former F.B.I. director James B. Comey said on Thursday that he knew of no electronic surveillance aimed at the Trump campaign during the 2016 presidential election, defending the bureau after Attorney General William P. Barr asserted a day earlier that the bureau spied on the campaign as part of the Russia investigation.“When I hear that kind of language used, it’s concerning because the F.B.I., the Department of Justice conduct court-ordered electronic surveillance,” said Mr. Comey, who oversaw the inquiry until President Trump abruptly fired him in May 2017. “I have never thought of that as spying.”Mr. Barr said in congressional testimony on Wednesday that the bureau might have taken improper measures while investigating links between Mr. Trump’s campaign and Russia, describing the F.B.I.’s conduct as “spying,” a term typically associated with unlawful surveillance.“I think spying did occur,” Mr. Barr said. “The question is whether it was adequately predicated. And I’m not suggesting that it wasn’t adequately predicated. But I need to explore that.”Mr. Barr’s statement lined up with that longstanding talking point used by Mr. Trump and his allies. A person who has discussed the matter with Mr. Barr said that he did not mean to imply that the measures had been improper, but Mr. Barr never released a statement clarifying his remarks.Mr. Trump said again on Thursday that he believed “there was absolutely spying into my campaign.”“I’ll go a step further: In my opinion, it was illegal spying, unprecedented spying, and something that should never be allowed to happen in our country again,” Mr. Trump said. “And I think his answer was actually a very accurate one.”Democrats on Capitol Hill accused Mr. Barr of imparting the authority of his office onto right-wing conspiracy theories favored by the president and his allies that American authorities illegally monitored the Trump campaign. Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, echoing members of his party, said the attorney general had lost all credibility.“Barr’s comments yesterday have just destroyed the scintilla of credibility he had left in terms of being a fair and impartial person,” Mr. Schumer told reporters, while accusing Mr. Barr of behaving like “the press secretary to the president.”In 2016, the F.B.I. sent an informant, a typical investigative step, to speak to two Trump campaign advisers after agents uncovered evidence that both had suspicious contacts linked to Russia during the campaign. When the role of the informant gained attention last year, the president seized on it to accuse law enforcement officials of illegally infiltrating his campaign.Mr. Comey is familiar with the issue. In March 2017, Mr. Trump accused the F.B.I. and Obama administration in a tweet of illegally wiretapping Trump Tower during the campaign. The tweet angered Mr. Comey, who knew the claim was false and pushed the Justice Department to refute it. The Justice Department never released a statement, but Mr. Comey later said publicly that Mr. Trump’s claim had no merit.“If the attorney general has come to the belief that that should be called spying, wow,” Mr. Comey said at a cybersecurity conference outside San Francisco. “That’s going to require a whole lot of conversations inside the Department of Justice. But I don’t know what he meant.”Mr. Comey said that regardless of what the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, found during his investigation into Mr. Trump and his campaign, Mr. Barr already revealed, in his letter to Congress last month, that the investigation had uncovered important facts about Russia’s interference in the 2016 election.“It tells us even without even reading the Mueller report that the Russia thing was not a hoax,” Mr. Comey said. “That it was real and that it is backed — that assessment is backed by hard evidence. It is true that the Russians came after us. They are going to come again because they exceeded their wildest hopes.”Despite Mr. Barr’s claims about spying, Mr. Comey said he would give Mr. Barr the benefit of the doubt that he would put following the facts and law above protecting the president.“Maybe the only thing I can say generally is I think his career has earned him a presumption that he will be one of the rare Trump cabinet members who will stand up for things like truth and facts and institutional values. So I still think he’s entitled to that presumption,” Mr. Comey said. “Language like this makes it harder, but I still think he’s entitled to that presumption and because I don’t understand what the heck he’s talking about, that’s all I can say.”Zolan Kanno-Youngs reported from Sausalito, Calif., and Michael S. Schmidt from Washington. Nicholas Fandos and Sheryl Gay Stolberg contributed reporting from Washington.
Supported byBitsBy Natasha SingerEach week, technology reporters and columnists from The New York Times review the week’s news, offering analysis and maybe a joke or two about the most important developments in the tech industry. Want this newsletter in your inbox? Sign up here.Hello, everyone. I’m Natasha Singer, your data privacy correspondent. I devote most of my waking hours to delving into the consequences of digital technologies for society and democracy. I even spent my summer vacation teaching a tech-innovation ethics course for high schoolers attending the School of The New York Times, our precollege program.So it was quite something for me just trying to keep up with all the developments of the week.To recap: Microsoft said Monday that it had found and shut down fraudulent sites that were imitating those of two conservative American think tanks that promote democracy. The phony sites, which were created by hackers linked to a Russian military intelligence unit, indicated that the Kremlin was widening its attacks beyond deceiving voters, my colleagues David E. Sanger and Sheera Frenkel wrote.Then on Tuesday, Facebook said it had identified and purged 652 fraudulent accounts, pages and groups that were trying to spread disinformation. This time the campaigns were aimed at tricking people not just in the United States, but also in Britain, Latin America and the Middle East. And in addition to Russia, there was a new misinformation culprit on Facebook’s radar: Iran.My colleagues Kate Conger and Sheera reported that Facebook had been tipped off to the Iranian fraud by FireEye, a cybersecurity firm. In a riveting article, they described how cybersecurity companies are expanding their focus from trying to thwart more traditional hacking of people’s accounts to policing social media networks for pernicious influence campaigns.On Wednesday, Alex Stamos, Facebook’s former security chief, also weighed in with a post on the Lawfare blog calling on the American government to step up its cybersecurity efforts and curb foreign election meddling.“America’s adversaries,” he wrote, “believe that it is still both safe and effective to attack U.S. democracy using American technologies and the freedoms we cherish.”This is the argument that Facebook has made all along: that “bad actors,” as Facebook’s chief operating officer, Sheryl Sandberg, termed them, have weaponized our well-intentioned technologies against us.But Facebook and other social networks are inherently designed for virality. And that has enabled domestic political campaigns — not just foreign evildoers — to use Facebook to sow division and spread disinformation with astonishing scale and speed.Consider Vote Leave, the campaign to persuade voters in Britain to leave the European Union in 2016. That campaign spent $2 million on Facebook ads that were seen millions of times, helping it to win the referendum. Some of the campaign’s ads seemed clearly designed to foster xenophobia, according to the Facebook ads recently released by the British Parliament. Other messages — like  one claiming that Turkey was joining the European Union, posted on Twitter by Carole Cadwalladr of The Guardian as an example of fear-mongering — were patently false.From where I sit, Facebook’s trying to weed out foreign election meddling — without remaking the underlying infrastructure that enables influence campaigns in the first place — seems akin to trying to quell an Ebola epidemic by handing out Kleenex.Or, as my colleague Adam Satariano wrote of his interview with a former British national security official, David Balson: “He said Facebook had to find more sustainable solutions to fighting misinformation than suspending accounts, and argued that many groups would continue their work, but under new names. Each new disclosure, Mr. Balson said, made him wonder what other campaigns were being waged on the social network.”In the week’s other tech news:• In an opinion piece titled “Trump Knows Digital Ads Work. Why Don’t Democrats?” Kendall Collins, the former chief marketing officer of Salesforce, warned Democrats that they were failing to use digital tools to reach and sway voters. “Anyone skilled in marketing,” Mr. Collins wrote, “knows the precision, targeting and cost-effectiveness of online strategies to reach buyers, influencers and, in this case, voters.”• A new study that analyzed every anti-refugee attack over a two-year period in Germany found that higher-than-average use of Facebook in a town correlated with more attacks on refugees. My colleagues Amanda Taub and Max Fisher traveled to German towns to investigate.• Google took the moral high ground on freedom of expression online when it pulled its search engine out of China in 2010 after four years of trying to operate a censored version there. But now Google may be changing its mind — about China as well as its own reputation, my colleague Farhad Manjoo wrote. The company has been testing a censored version of its search engine for the Chinese market, Farhad said, and deploying it would threaten Google’s self-image as a virtuous place to work.• In this zinger critique  in Real Life magazine, Frank Pasquale, a technology law professor, examined how tech industry influence is skewing priorities in artificial intelligence research and ethics. “Energy that could be put into better public transit systems is instead diverted to perfect the coding of self-driving cars,” he wrote. “Anti-surveillance activism transmogrifies into proposals to improve facial recognition systems to better recognize all faces.”• And lastly: Universities around the United States are collaborating on the creation of a new academic discipline, called “public interest technology.” In a piece in Wired, a Harvard Law professor, Susan Crawford, described how the new field will include “designing public policy and laws with an awareness of how technology actually works, as well as ensuring that technology is being used to serve public values of fairness and equity.”I admit I’m biased since this overlaps with what I taught the high school students, but I’m rooting for it.Natasha Singer covers data privacy and accountability for The New York Times. She previously covered the pharmaceutical industry for The Times and spent years as a correspondent in Moscow. Follow her on Twitter: @natashanyt.Interested in All Things Tech?  Get the Bits newsletter delivered to your inbox weekly for the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.
Supported byBy Eric Schmitt, David E. Sanger and Glenn ThrushWASHINGTON — President Trump has repeatedly warned that terrorists are pouring into the United States from Mexico, in one of his central justifications for building a border wall.But his own government’s assessments conclude that Mr. Trump has seriously overstated the threat. And counterterrorism officials and experts said there had never been a case of a known terrorist sneaking into the country through open areas of the southwest border.Despite the administration’s focus on security threats at the border, a White House strategy document sent to Congress last month outlining steps needed to monitor and intercept terrorists included no reference to the need for construction of barriers, fences or walls. Separately, an intelligence analysis concluded that cyberattacks are the top threat to the United States — not terrorists at the border.“There is no wave of terrorist operatives waiting to cross overland into the United States,” Nicholas J. Rasmussen, the former director of the National Counterterrorism Center, said on Tuesday. “It simply isn’t true.”In a rare prime-time address to the nation, broadcast at 9 p.m. on Tuesday, Mr. Trump was expected to describe a national security crisis brewing at the Mexican border. It was his opportunity to directly defend his demands for $5.7 billion for a border wall — funding that congressional Democrats have refused to provide, fueling the 18-day government shutdown.Many Latin American countries have border law enforcement gaps — limited law enforcement capabilities and established smuggling routes — that extremists could exploit to harm the United States, according to the State Department’s latest Country Reports on Terrorism.But, the report concluded, that has not happened.“These vulnerabilities offer opportunities to foreign terrorist groups, but there have been no cases of terrorist groups exploiting these gaps to move operations through the region,” the report said.The latest ranking of urgent national security vulnerabilities, compiled annually by American intelligence agencies, puts the terrorist threat from the southwest border low on the list and then mentions it in a discussion of how “worldwide production of cocaine, heroin and methamphetamine is at record levels.”Over the last several days, White House and Department of Homeland Security officials have relentlessly pushed the case that the situation at the border is both a national security crisis and a humanitarian one.Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said on Sunday that “nearly 4,000 known or suspected terrorists come into our country illegally,” and added that the “most vulnerable point of entry is at our southern border.”A day later, Kellyanne Conway, the White House counselor, called those comments “an unfortunate misstatement.”At the same time, in a memo sent to journalists late Monday, Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, cited “more than 3,000 ‘special-interest aliens’ — individuals with suspicious travel patterns” who posed a potential national security risk.“The threat is real,” she wrote in a series of tweets on Monday afternoon. “The number of terror-watchlisted encountered at our Southern Border has increased over the last two years. The exact number is sensitive and details about these cases are extremely sensitive.”Former national security officials and analysts have pushed back — especially on the notion that terrorism suspects or their sympathizers use the southwest border as a door to the United States.“That 4,000 number was bull,” said W. Ralph Basham, who served as commissioner of United States Customs and Border Protection from 2006 to 2009, during the Bush administration.“The idea that you have that many terrorists flooding across the border when you have all of these dedicated agents focused on stopping that kind of activity is ridiculous,” Mr. Basham said.A senior American counterterrorism official said on Tuesday night that an annual average of three known or suspected terrorists — all of whom were on watch lists — had tried to enter the United States at a legal border crossing or entry point over the last several years, and had been denied.A 22-page National Strategy to Combat Terrorism Travel, overseen by the staff of the National Security Council and under Mr. Trump’s signature, cited a broad commitment to making it “more difficult for terrorists to cross U.S. borders.”Sent to Congress on Dec. 21, the day before the government shutdown began, the document urged data sharing and improved coordination with foreign partners to identify terrorists before they travel. It did not urge the construction of a border wall.The only explicit reference to “border security” in the document, which was obtained on Tuesday by The New York Times, is a listing of executive orders that Mr. Trump has already signed. It also included strategies to “interdict” potential terrorists with plans to “maintain the equipment and technology” necessary to stop bad actors and share real-time information between law enforcement agencies.The 2018 assessment by the Office of the Director of National Intelligence ranked cyberattacks against utilities, communications systems and markets as the top threat to the United States. Published annually by American intelligence agencies, the ranking has not changed much over the past five years.But the government shutdown has furloughed nearly half of the work force of the Department of Homeland Security’s new Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, which is advertised as the first line of defense against network attacks. Mr. Trump has also dismantled the office of the White House cybersecurity coordinator, the job that was supposed to sew together offense and defense against the daily barrage of cyberattacks.After cyberattacks, the top threats to the United States include the rise of smaller, more deadly nuclear and biological weapons; terrorist attacks by the Islamic State and Al Qaeda; and Russian-style influence campaigns and threats to the United States’ space assets.Counterterrorism officials have long discounted the threat of Islamic State or Qaeda terrorists entering through the southwest border. In some cases, the opposite has happened, said Seamus Hughes, the deputy director of George Washington University’s program on extremism, citing homegrown American extremists who crossed into Mexico to avoid being detected on no-fly lists.Officials included the case of Jason Ludke of Milwaukee, who pleaded guilty in October to conspiring to provide material support to the Islamic State. He and a co-conspirator were headed to the border in Texas, with plans to join the Islamic State in Syria or Iraq, when they were arrested.According to the plea agreement, Mr. Ludke had planned to work under the Islamic State’s direction and control and recorded a video of himself pledging his allegiance to the terrorist group’s leader, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi. Mr. Ludke told an undercover F.B.I. agent that he had training in jujitsu and computers, which he believed would benefit the Islamic State.Even as Mr. Trump has lobbied for the wall, he has also pressed the Pentagon and the Department of Homeland Security to immediately tighten security on the border.On Dec. 27, homeland security officials asked for assistance that the Pentagon later estimated would require 3,000 additional military personnel to be sent to the border, according to memos exchanged by the two departments over the last two weeks. The force could include a combination of National Guard troops, active-duty military personnel and volunteers, but that was not made clear in the documents, officials said. It remains an issue of hot debate inside the Pentagon.The Homeland Security Department also requested 146 mobile surveillance vehicles to be sent to four border states, along with enough personnel and material to install 150 additional miles of barbed concertina wire. The homeland security memo also again asked Defense Department officials to provide additional aviation support to monitor and control the flow of immigrants.The Pentagon has not yet approved the request. It included guidelines for Ms. Nielsen and other homeland security officials to “take the lead” on strategic communications intended to highlight the Pentagon’s role. It also made clear the troops would carry no weapons.Thomas Gibbons-Neff contributed reporting.
Supported byBy Karen WeiseSEATTLE — Jeff Bezos’ security consultant accused the Saudi government of gaining unauthorized access to the Amazon chief executive’s phone, as part of an effort to harm the world’s richest man.In an opinion article in The Daily Beast on Saturday, Gavin de Becker, Mr. Bezos’ security chief, alleged the Saudis wanted to hurt Mr. Bezos because he owns The Washington Post. The Post has aggressively reported on the murder of Jamal Khashoggi, one of its columnists, who was killed last year in Turkey. United States officials have concluded Mr. Khashoggi, who was critical of Saudi leaders, was killed on the orders of the Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman.Mr. de Becker said he had turned over his findings about the Saudis and their role against Mr. Bezos to law enforcement.“Our investigators and several experts concluded with high confidence that the Saudis had access to Bezos’ phone, and gained private information,” Mr. de Becker wrote.Mr. de Becker’s claims about the Saudis are difficult to verify and raise many questions. Throughout his article, the security consultant was vague on details. He did not reveal direct evidence of his accusations and wrote that he would not speak again publicly on the issue.On Sunday, American Media Inc., the parent company of The National Enquirer, which first reported earlier this year that Mr. Bezos was having an extramarital affair, issued a statement denying “the false and unsubstantiated claims of Mr. de Becker.”Amazon did not immediately have a comment about Mr. Bezos. An official with the Saudi embassy in Washington declined to comment on Saturday.Mr. de Becker’s allegations are the latest twist in a bizarre situation that has embroiled the largest U.S. tabloid publisher and Mr. Bezos, who runs Amazon and owns The Post. The unusual set of circumstances began in January, when Mr. Bezos announced that he and his wife, MacKenzie Bezos, were divorcing. The next day, The Enquirer published an exposé revealing that Mr. Bezos was romantically involved with Lauren Sanchez, a former Los Angeles TV anchor.Then in February, Mr. Bezos published a post on Medium accusing AMI of “extortion and blackmail.” Mr. Bezos said AMI had threatened to publish graphic photographs of him, including a “below-the-belt selfie,” if he did not publicly affirm that The Enquirer’s reporting on his affair was not motivated by political concerns. He said AMI, which has had ties to the Saudis, was “apoplectic” about The Post’s reporting on the Saudis.Mr. Bezos added that he had asked Mr. de Becker, his longtime security consultant, to investigate who had leaked information and photos about him.Earlier this month, The New York Times reported that two people with direct knowledge of The Enquirer’s reporting said that everything the tabloid received on Mr. Bezos’ affair, including the “below-the-belt selfie,” came from a single source. The Wall Street Journal later reported that AMI had paid Ms. Sanchez’s brother, Michael Sanchez, $200,000 for the texts.In its statement on Sunday, AMI said directly that its source was Mr. Sanchez. “The fact of the matter is, it was Michael Sanchez who tipped the National Enquirer off to the affair on Sept. 10, 2018, and over the course of four months provided all of the materials for our investigation.” AMI added, “There was no involvement by any other third party whatsover.”Mr. de Becker on Saturday said that the effort against Mr. Bezos went beyond Mr. Sanchez and also involved the Saudis. Mr. de Becker pointed to an article published on Saturday by The New York Post in which Mr. Sanchez said The Enquirer “had seen text exchanges between the secret couple” before he was in touch with the tabloid on the matter.“Reality is complicated, and can’t always be boiled down to a simple narrative like ‘the brother did it,’” Mr. de Becker wrote.Mr. de Becker said his investigation included interviews with cybersecurity experts and “people who personally know the Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman.” But he stopped short of saying what methods he believed the Saudis may have used to access Mr. Bezos’ personal information.He added that AMI had wanted him to make a public statement “saying that my investigation had concluded they hadn’t relied upon ‘any form of electronic eavesdropping or hacking in their news-gathering process,’” and that the tabloid’s story was not “instigated, dictated or influenced in any manner by external forces, political or otherwise.”Mr. de Becker said he told AMI in a recorded call that those claims were “not my truth.”Follow Karen Weise on Twitter: @KYWeise.Amy Chozick and David Kirkpatrick contributed reporting.
Supported byBy Aisha Harris“Mr. Robot,” Sam Esmail’s puzzling drama series centering on themes of corruption, surveillance and anarchy, will conclude after its coming fourth season, USA Network announced on Wednesday. The thriller, which ended its third season in December, stars Rami Malek as Elliot Alderson, a cybersecurity engineer who gets caught up in a revolution led by internet activists and hackers called “fsociety.”In interviews, Mr. Esmail has often said that his vision for the series’ trajectory was  four to five seasons. In a tweet following the announcement, the creator wrote: “Excited to show you guys the final chapter in Elliot’s journey. It’s going to be sad to say goodbye to Mr. Robot, but it’ll be sadder to say goodbye to all the fans.”The first season of “Mr. Robot” was a buzzed-about and critical success, garnering numerous award nominations and wins, including a Golden Globe for best television series drama and an Emmy for outstanding lead actor in a drama for Mr. Malek. This fall, the actor will be seen in theaters as the Queen frontman Freddie Mercury in the feature “Bohemian Rhapsody.” Mr. Esmail has a new project coming to Amazon Video in November, “Homecoming,” starring Julia Roberts.The fourth and final season of “Mr. Robot” will air sometime in 2019.
Supported byJennifer Yoosun Berry and Travis Shane Jarae were married Sept. 29 at Blue Hill at Stone Barns, a restaurant in Pocantico Hills, N.Y. Cameron D’Ambrosi, a friend of the couple who became a Universal Life minister for the occasion, led the ceremony.The couple are partners in One World Identity, a strategy and management consulting firm focusing on digital identity and cybersecurity, with offices in New York, San Francisco and Washington. Mr. Jarae is the chief executive and founder; Ms. Berry is the senior vice president leading the client services division. They are based mainly in New York and San Francisco.Until 2017, Ms. Berry, 32, was a management consultant focusing on financial services clients at Deloitte in San Francisco. She graduated from Barnard College and received an M.B.A. from N.Y.U.She is the daughter of Kay H. Yang and David G. Berry of Scarsdale, N.Y. The bride’s father retired as an electrical engineer and a technical vice president at Amray, a provider of electron microscope systems in Bedford, Mass. Her mother retired as an executive vice president of Stroheim &amp; Romann in New York, a textile resource for interior decorators.Until 2017, Mr. Jarae, 30, was the global head of digital identity at Google in Mountain View, Calif. He graduated from the University of South Florida.He is a son of Deborah A. Jarae and Larry J. Jarae of Safety Harbor, Fla. The groom’s mother is a registered nurse at BayCare Health System in Clearwater, Fla. His father is an account executive for technical enterprise sales base in the Tampa office of Oracle, the software technology company in Redwood City, Calif.The couple met in 2013 while working together as management consultants at Deloitte on a financial service project in Buffalo. A few months later when their project ended they returned to New York, and began dating in earnest.
Supported byCB Insights, a firm that tracks start-ups, analyzed a variety of data to create a list of 50 private companies around the world that are on a path to a $1 billion valuation.By Erin GriffithHong KongWhat it does: Makes a system that lets businesses send and collect money overseasSan FranciscoAn online pharmacySan FranciscoMakes analytics tools that help companies run digital businessesBeijing Makes talent management and measurement tools[The next wave of unicorns will look quite different from the prior generation.]San FranciscoMakes software for life science researchers and companiesNew YorkProvides cybersecurity for cloud software companiesSan FranciscoMakes mortgage and consumer loan application software for lendersNew YorkMakes mobile marketing softwareLeawood, Kan.A financial services platform that provides companies access to working capitalJaipur, IndiaOffers online sales, financing and insurance for autos and education servicesSão Paulo, BrazilA Brazilian start-up that uses technology to make trucking companies more efficientSan FranciscoProvides equity management services for investors, founders and employeesSan FranciscoProvides background checks of workersLondonA map, transit and navigation app for citiesBANGALORE, IndiaMakes software for filing taxes and managing investmentsBerlinMakes software for digital contentBangalore, IndiaA news and entertainment appSunnyvale, Calif.A cloud storage providerPalo Alto, Calif.Makes mapping technology for autonomous vehiclesSydney, AustraliaMakes software for companies to manage staff schedules and timesheetsSan FranciscoMakes software for managing dataPalo Alto, Calif.A short-term loan providerSan FranciscoMakes self-driving semi trucksSan FranciscoProvides large organizations with security for internet-connected devicesSan FranciscoA wholesale marketplace for boutiques and small vendorsSan Carlos, Calif.An online platform for farmers to share and analyze data, buy supplies and sell cropsBostonMakes payments software for global transactionsSan FranciscoMakes email collaboration softwareNew YorkMakes skin-care and beauty productsMexico City And São Paulo, BrazilDockless bikes and scooter servicesSan FranciscoFinds and fixes software vulnerabilitiesStockholm, SwedenProvides services for patients to consult doctors through mobile devicesWashington and San FranciscoProvides mapping technologyOakland, Calif.Provides payments infrastructure for issuing physical, virtual or tokenized payment cardsBeijingMaking oncology systemsGuangzhou, ChinaBuilding online communication between doctors and patientsCambridge, Mass.Making cloud-based design tools for manufacturingSeattleProvides a sales engagement platformBangalore, IndiaConnecting patients to health care providers using techSão Paulo, BrazilA residential real estate rental platformBangalore, IndiaProvides payments technology to online merchantsAustin, Tex.An online platform for contract workers in the energy industry to find workAtlantaProvides technology for companies to increase salesSan FranciscoProvides a platform for gathering and managing dataNew YorkMakes software for analyzing and visualizing dataSan FranciscoProvides apartment-like hotels in citiesSan FranciscoProvides artificial intelligence tools for physical storesSan FranciscoAn online lending platformShanghaiA sharing platform that lets people swap used itemsNew YorkOnline wedding registries and wedding planning toolsErin Griffith reports on technology start-ups and venture capital from the San Francisco bureau. Before joining The Times she was a senior writer at WIRED and Fortune.  @eringriffith 
Supported byBy Zolan Kanno-YoungsSAN PEDRO, Calif. — The Coast Guard’s top officer laid out a “dedicated campaign” on Thursday to improve diversity in a military branch that has long struggled to recruit women and minorities, weeks after the service was shaken by the arrest of a lieutenant and self-described white nationalist accused of plotting terrorist attacks from its headquarters.Adm. Karl L. Schultz, speaking in his first State of the Coast Guard address since being named the service’s 26th commandant in June, later acknowledged that the goal to make the service more inclusive would be challenging after the Defense Department issued a policy that will force future transgender members of the military to identify as their biological sex.“We’re going to treat everybody with respect. There’s some changes that come with this policy, and we’re bound to follow that policy,” Admiral Schultz said at the Coast Guard Los Angeles-Long Beach Base before scores of Coast Guard and California law enforcement officials. “There’s some that feel, ‘Hey, you’re breaking ranks with the transgender community.’ I would say, we’ll see how it goes.”He also faces a major challenge on other diversity fronts: Out of its 41,159 members, just 14.6 percent are women, 13.7 percent are Hispanic and 5.9 percent are African-American.Admiral Schultz dedicated much of his speech to emphasizing the need to improve retention of women and minorities, and highlighting steps to do so.The Coast Guard will commission a study to explore improving retention among “underrepresented minorities” and is planning next week to release data from a similar study on the retention of women, he said. It will also use staffing from reserves to support new parents wanting to go on leave and to ease restrictions on recruits with tattoos. Admiral Schultz also said he hoped emerging opportunities in cybersecurity would attract new, younger talent.“These actions are the first steps in a dedicated campaign to identify barriers to inclusion, and to help frame solutions that challenge the status quo,” Admiral Schultz said. “They are small ripples that will lead to a groundswell of cultural change.”The Coast Guard has suffered in part because of an image that its work is limited to finding those lost at sea and towing ships, when in reality the organization operates as a military and law enforcement service whose members travel throughout the world as part of the intelligence community. It also struggled during the latest government shutdown, when its service members went weeks without a paycheck. Admiral Schultz said he expected the Coast Guard to fully recover by June 1.The transgender policy has also created a hurdle — one that Admiral Schultz’s predecessor, Paul F. Zukunft, challenged in 2017, when the former commandant said he would continue to support transgender members of the Coast Guard the same day President Trump tweeted about barring them from the military.Lawyers for transgender service members have said the policy, which the Supreme Court allowed to take effect this year while litigation continues, amounts to a ban on transgender people. Defense Department officials have rejected that assertion, saying transgender service members can still serve.Although the Coast Guard is under the Department of Homeland Security, not the Defense Department, the master chief petty officer of the Coast Guard, Jason M. Vanderhaden, said it was important that the organization follow a policy consistent with other arms of the military so it could deploy its members to assist those branches without any restrictions.After Admiral Schultz’s speech, he gave Senator Lisa Murkowski, Republican of Alaska, a tour of the Forrest Rednour, a Coast Guard cutter typically used to intercept drug and human traffickers.Ms. Murkowski said she looked forward to results of the women’s retention study and was looking to see if there were similar struggles in other branches of the military.“The message of an all-inclusive Coast Guard, I think it’s important for the Coast Guard and all members of our armed service,” Ms. Murkowski said.The speech came weeks after the arrest of the Coast Guard lieutenant and self-described white nationalist in Maryland on gun and drug charges. Prosecutors said the suspect, Lt. Christopher Paul Hasson, plotted to kill prominent journalists and Democratic politicians, as well as what he called, “leftists in general.”In his first public comments about the arrest, Admiral Schultz asked the public to judge the 228-year-old organization “on the fiber of our character.”“It tells us you need to be alert and aware in our workplaces,” Admiral Schultz told reporters before the speech. “People can have a work life and an outside-work life. So it heightens all our awareness about keeping our senses being intrusive leaders.”
Supported byBy David E. SangerWASHINGTON — Shane Huntley has seen every form of state-sponsored cyberattack, first as an Australian intelligence officer and now as director of Google’s most advanced team of threat detectors.So when he was asked what surprised him the most about the 2018 midterm elections, his response was a bit counterintuitive. “The answer is surprisingly little on the hacking front, at least compared to two years ago.” He paused, and added: “And that reassures some people, and it scares some people.”He is right. From the cyberwar room that the Department of Homeland Security runs round the clock in a bland office building in Arlington, Va., to Microsoft’s threat-assessment center at the other end of the country, in Redmond, Wash., every form of digital radar is being focused on America’s election infrastructure — and particularly on the Russian military intelligence agency once known as the G.R.U.This weekend, some of those radars began to sound a few warnings — but faintly, and in strange places. Cybersecurity firms and some election officials reported seeing an increase in cyberattacks on websites and infrastructure surrounding the vote, but not on systems that are part of the voting process. Hackers have targeted websites across the United States — including in Georgia, Florida and California — that allow voters to look up the location of their local polling stations or to verify that they are registered to vote.It is unclear where the attacks are coming from, but the sources appear to be a mix, everything from other countries to lone hackers looking to make a name for themselves, investigators say. “The attackers are trying to make a lot of noise,” said Matthew Prince, chief executive of Cloudflare, a cybersecurity firm that is tracking the action.He said the incursions were not an effort to disrupt the vote, but merely to bolster rumors of election fraud and interference. “They are going after anything that can undermine the process itself,” he said. “Their aim is to put the outcome in doubt,” which could enable President Trump or losing candidates, come Wednesday, to declare that the outcome was rigged.There is no evidence yet that the Russians have had anything to do with this latest set of malicious activities, and many experts say they believe that President Vladimir V. Putin is sitting out this election. After all, the argument goes, the scrutiny is intense, and 470 House and Senate races make it just too hard for the Russians to figure out their interests, much less manipulate the outcome. But after the 2016 debacle, suspicions run deep, and some think that the Russians just haven’t played their hand yet.“The Russians are too smart to run the same play a second time,” said Dmitri Alperovich, one of the founders of the cybersecurity firm CrowdStrike, who was central to identifying the Russian military inside the D.N.C., touching off chaos in the Democratic Party. “If they were going to do anything in today’s environment, they certainly wouldn’t want to act until the very last moment.”Whether a Russian change of tactics is unfolding is just one of many mysteries surrounding this first national election in the United States after the most sophisticated effort ever discovered to divide Americans, and ultimately seek to alter the outcome, by a foreign power.If there is a lesson from 2016, it was that America was constantly taken by surprise — by the hacking of the D.N.C. and prominent Democrats, by the publication of internal emails, by efforts to get inside the voter-registration rolls of 20 states. In 2018, there are new and different warning signs: The Iranians have shown up, and states and local governments have done surprisingly little to harden their infrastructure. The Chinese are players, but not in the ways that President Trump and Vice President Pence have suggested.And the Russians haven’t exactly gone away. While there are few signs of pre-election intrusions into voter-registration systems, the social media campaigns never ended; some accelerated immediately after the 2016 elections. When the United States indicted Maria Butina, a Russian who was accused of running influence campaigns while an American University student, the government suspected Russian groups budgeted millions of dollars for continuing influence campaigns.“We shouldn’t be surprised by any of this,” Mr. Huntley said last week at a Zeitgeist, an annual gathering of the company’s leadership and many of its customers outside of Phoenix. “It’s like fighting the last war. When I was in the military academy people told us all the next wars were going to look like the first Gulf War. They didn’t. And in cyber, the next war won’t look like 2016.”So in the last days of the campaign, here are six points from the 2018 cyberpolitical battlefield:In 2016, the Iranians were nowhere to be seen in the American election process. This year, they showed up in such force that Facebook announced last Friday that it was taking down a series of Iranian posts, mostly, it seemed, to demonstrate that the company’s radar, switched off two years ago, is now on high alert.Intelligence officials and cybersecurity companies say the Iranians mostly appear to be copying techniques that they learned from watching the Russians, especially in social media. But there is a twist: The Russians and the Iranians are clearly not in political agreement here. While both have sought to exacerbate political and social divides, the Russians clearly showed a preference for Mr. Trump as Election Day approached, according to the conclusions published after the election by American intelligence agencies.The Iranians are playing the other side. “They don’t like what happened to the nuclear deal,” Yasmin Green, the director of research and development for Jigsaw, a unit of Alphabet, which is Google’s parent company. Speaking at a TimesTalks event held by The New York Times and Deloitte on Tuesday night in Washington, Ms. Green, one of the country’s leading experts on the uses and abuses of social media, noted that Mr. Trump’s withdrawal from the 2015 nuclear deal with Iran, and his reimposition of drastic sanctions, has made the Iranians determined to cripple him.“Not only are they anti-this administration,” she said, they are “pro-liberal.”By comparison to the Russians, the Iranian hackers are still pretty unsophisticated and are largely inept at imitating down-the-street-neighbors when posting to Facebook and Reddit. One ad showed a frowning Mr. Trump, and declared him “The Worst, Most Hated President in American History,” the kind of extreme declaration one might expect of Mr. Trump himself. Others sought to undercut American confidence in the way Washington operates, by showing two men shaking hands above a conference table and passing money below it. (“We call it bribery — they call it lobbying.”The number of these posts appeared small — about 82 Facebook pages, groups and accounts — but they generated more than a million followers.“It’s still early days and while we have found no ties to the Iranian government, we can’t say for sure who is responsible,” Nathaniel Gleicher, the head of cybersecurity policy at Facebook, declared in a blog. In other words, Facebook was making clear that this year it’s awake and the mass purges of deliberate misinformation, nonexistent in the 2016 cycle, will accelerate.In 2016, America’s big mistake was failing to understand what had been happening in Ukraine. Every technique that Mr. Putin’s hackers, from the network break-in artists at the G.R.U. to the producers of fake social-media posts at the internet Research Agency in St. Petersburg, used in the United States they tested in Kiev and the Donbass, the separatist area where the Russians have been stoking civil war.So it is no surprise, said Tom Burt, the vice president for customer security and trust at Microsoft, that the most active battleground is, once again, Ukraine. In the Microsoft Cybercrime Center, a giant digital map of the world shows cyberattack activity, but the number of attacks are adjusted for the size of the population. Ukraine shows up in bright red. The United States, with 330 million people, or seven times the population of Ukraine, shows up in white, a sign of relative calm.“We’re seeing activity in the U.S., but we’re seeing it at levels less than we saw in 2016, said Mr. Burt, cautioning that Microsoft, with its network of machines using Office software and its Azure cloud computing services, is more likely to see hacking of accounts than social media activity.Still, Mr. Burt’s group alerted two senators last year that a hacking group long linked to the G.R.U. had attacked their Capitol Hill offices, unsuccessfully. It was unclear if the goal was to affect their re-election campaigns or get into emails, because both sit on national-security-related committees. One of the senators was Claire McCaskill, the Missouri Democrat who is considered highly vulnerable. Microsoft also detected intrusions on two politically conservative think tanks in Washington in August.To get a sense of what is coming to the United States, Ms. Green and Jigsaw’s chief executive, Jared Cohen, a former State Department official, visited Ukraine in recent weeks and found that it was still Mr. Putin’s petri dish, a place where sophisticated new experiments were underway to deluge separatist parts of the country with disinformation ahead of military actions and a presidential election next March. Ukraine is “always on the leading edge,” she concluded.The question of China’s involvement was raised first by Mr. Trump and then by Mr. Pence, who said in a speech that “Beijing has mobilized covert actors, front groups, and propaganda outlets to shift Americans’ perception of Chinese policies,” and said a “senior career member of our intelligence community recently told me what the Russians are doing pales in comparison” to Chinese interference.But Mr. Trump and Mr. Pence were borrowing the terminology of cyberattacks to describe something very different: Efforts by China to publish policy arguments, often in newspaper supplements that have been paid for by the Chinese government for years, to make its case. There is no evidence, officials and outside experts say, of the kind of hacking that Russia has engaged in, or even much social-media use. (In Asia and Australia, in contrast, the Chinese have been busy on social media.)When three Democratic senators asked Dan Coats, the director of national intelligence, for an unclassified letter explaining what the Chinese were doing in the 2018 election, to truth-test the administration’s arguments, Mr. Coats avoided any potential contradictions with his boss by sending a classified answer.“You can’t have it both ways,” Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon, said. Mr. Coats, he said, “has an obligation to the American people to provide a public response to our questions, particularly since this is about America’s elections and the security of our democracy.”If awards were handed out for most-bungled-election-machine-management, Texas would be a strong contender for the top prize. It’s just that the problem is the machines or the voters, not Mr. Putin’s hackers.As early voting began recently, voters who hit the button to choose a straight Republican or Democratic ballot on a certain kind of machine — called a “Hart InterCivic eSlate” — had to wait a few seconds while the check marks filled in next to every name. For most voters, it worked fine. But if a voter touched a certain button and a click wheel, used to select individual candidates, the ballot could change. And there was no way for voters to see it changing.Bad publicity followed, and Texas blamed voters who couldn’t keep their hands off the machines, which were decades old. But in these nervous times, the incident underscored how susceptible many election machines are to quirks. That is another reason that paper backup for electronic voting machines is so important, so that voters can look over their selections, and so vote-counters have a nonelectronic way of conducting a recount, if the machines cannot be trusted.One would think that after all the concerns in 2016, states and counties would have been racing to update their systems. “Most did almost nothing,” Douglas Lute, a former American ambassador to NATO and Army general, who has taken up the cause of reforming the election infrastructure, said in an interview. The $380 million that Congress allotted recently mostly went to funding assessments of vulnerabilities.Yet while states and counties made changes, New Jersey, Delaware, Georgia, South Carolina and Louisiana still use no paper backup, and parts of Pennsylvania, a vital swing state, do not either. That has not changed since 2016, and it is unclear that it will be solved by 2020.The vulnerabilities of voting machines have gotten a lot of attention, especially at the Def Con conference over the summer in Las Vegas, which drew 25,000 hackers. At the conference’s Voting Village, it took an 11-year-old just minutes to hack into a voting machine using a simulation of Florida’s system. (The machine’s manufacturers called it a stunt, noting that physical security of the machines at Def Con was nonexistent. Still, the speed of the intrusion was impressive.Almost all voting machines in the United States are off-line and come in many varieties, making it hard to hack them unless you are sitting in front of the machine. But the computers that prepare the ballots are not, and at the conference, J. Alex Halderman, a University of Michigan professor who has published devastating work on the vulnerability of voting machines, held a mock vote that pitted George Washington against Benedict Arnold. Thanks to manipulation of the ballot software, America’s most famous traitor trounced the man who was, until the software was rigged, first in the hearts of his countrymen.That is only part of the problem. Many counties use old, insecure websites for their voter registration; it would be relatively simple to create “spoofed” alternative sites or break into them, to manipulate data or post notices that polls have been closed or Election Day moved. That could be the next move in the county-by-county activity seen in recent days.There is also room for mischief as votes are tabulated and reported to the state, and ultimately to media outlets.Eric Rosenbach, a former senior Defense Department official who directs the Defending Digital Democracy initiative at Harvard’s Belfer Center, which has provided training in recent months to election officials from 38 states, notes that is exactly what happened in Ukraine, “creating conflicting reporting about who really won.” The effort was intended to sow doubts about whether the entire election had been manipulated.The Department of Homeland Security said there had been little evidence this year of the kind of “probes” into the voter registration systems that created such fear in 2016. But Election Day hasn’t arrived yet.It wouldn’t take much to disrupt Tuesday’s vote in a few important swing districts, and that’s what the United States government — and many private security experts — are worried about.The Department of Homeland Security says it will be deploying small teams of cyberexperts to important states — presumably those that are most vulnerable, or have close races — just before the election. But it is not hard to imagine different scenarios that could cause disruption, or just create the illusion of disruption.A last-minute attack on county or state voter-registration systems, just to knock them off-line, would create an uproar from voters who might show up at the polls and find they could not vote. A strike at power grids, turning out the lights at polling places, or just disrupting transportation systems could suppress turnout and lead to charges of manipulation.Mr. Rosenbach’s group simulated such events in a series of scenarios with election officials, piling one attack upon another in an effort to get them to think ahead about how they would respond, all part of an election “playbook” that the Defending Digital Democracy program has given to campaigns and officials.And then there is another fear: Come Wednesday, if there are still races that are too close to call, just a rumor campaign about possible election manipulation might be enough to cast doubt about the integrity of the results. And in the end, that’s what election disruption is all about — undermining the citizens’ confidence that their vote counts.In 2016, the evidence of the extent of Russian operations on social media did not become clear until months after the election was over — and then, time and again, Facebook had to admit it missed all the warning signs. Mark Zuckerberg, a company founder, moved from arguing that to think fake news and divisive posts “influence the election in any way is a pretty crazy idea” to ordering the hiring of thousands of Facebook monitors to make sure it never happened again.But there are no guarantees. Months after the midterms are over, evidence of covert internet action that is currently going unnoticed may well surface. As the Russians and others embrace artificial intelligence techniques, and get better at targeting messages, they may well find ways to route around the phalanx of new social-media police. Ms. Green says that is unavoidable.“It’s still retroactive,” she said of monitoring social media. “We haven’t figure out how to do this in real time.”An earlier version of this story misidentified the state that Senator Ron Wyden represents. He is from Oregon, not Washington.An earlier version of this article misstated the year in which some social media campaigns accelerated immediately after elections. It was 2016, not 2018.David E. Sanger is a national security correspondent for The New York Times and author of “The Perfect Weapon: War, Sabotage and Fear in the Cyber Age.”
Supported byBy Nellie BowlesSYDNEY, Australia — Atlassian is a very boring software company. It develops products for software engineers and project managers, with hits like Jira (for software project management and bug tracking) and Fisheye (a revision-control browser). And who could forget Confluence (an enterprise knowledge management system)?So why are its two founders household names in Australia?Because Scott Farquhar and Mike Cannon-Brookes, both 39, are the country’s first start-up-to-I.P.O. tech billionaires. And because in the last year, they have started to make noise.Until recently, they largely stayed out of the public eye, even as Atlassian grew to become a $20 billion company. Now, as Australian politics tilt toward the right on global issues like immigration, cybersecurity and climate change, they are emerging as new political voices, getting in Twitter spats and lobbying Parliament.The other reason they are now household names: In 2017, Mr. Farquhar bought the most expensive home in Australia, a historic Sydney estate that sold for 73 million Australian dollars, or $52 million.In December, Mr. Cannon-Brookes broke that record when he closed on the house next door.I met the Atlassian founders for a few days in Sydney. Over brunches, a ferry ride and a birthday party, they told me about their new roles in public life, and what it feels like to be the first tech billionaires in a country where wealth usually comes from mining or banking.“People are interested now in what we’re saying,” Mr. Cannon-Brookes said. “We have a voice. We have a sense of responsibility.”The two met as undergraduates at the University of New South Wales, where both were in a business scholarship program sponsored by Australian companies. They were encouraged to join one of those companies after graduating, but instead the two friends founded Atlassian, shocking their teachers and friends.It was 2002. Doing a start-up was unusual.“It was disbelief, really — why would you not go with a sponsor company?” said Christine Van Toorn, the program’s director and a lecturer at the school.They relied on credit cards for initial financing. They advertised by going to developer meetups, buying beer for the room and putting Atlassian stickers on the bottles.The company took off almost immediately.“Within three years we went from pariah to sponsoring the program ourselves,” Mr. Farquhar said.The products they created were cheap and easy to use. They sold by word of mouth (the company employs few sales representatives). But Silicon Valley paid them little mind. When their friend Didier Elzinga, founder of Culture Amp, was at a venture capital dinner in Palo Alto, Calif., an investor asked why people should care about Atlassian.“And I said, ‘O.K. Tell me a company in the Valley that listed with a $5 billion market cap and where the two founders own 75 percent,’” Mr. Elzinga said. “They didn’t need Silicon Valley.”First they confused Silicon Valley. And then they confused Australia.“The orthodoxy amongst the Australian tech companies is to stay away from politics,” said Alan Jones, the founder of M8 Ventures, an Australian venture capital firm. “And then now there’s these guys.”Their approach to policy is an extension of how they run a business together and live next door to each other: by relying on their differences.[Sign up for the Australia Letter to get news, conversation starters and local recommendations in your inbox each week.]Mr. Cannon-Brookes’s father was the chief executive of Citigroup Australia. His son wears his hair long, usually under a trucker hat. He has a shaggy beard and swears casually.Mr. Farquhar’s roots are more working class: His father worked at a service station, and his mother worked at McDonald’s. He is quieter, with close-cropped, sandy brown hair.He was recently upset that he hadn’t finished a marathon in under four hours (it was four hours and two minutes). When his green smoothie almost overflowed its glass (but didn’t), Mr. Farquhar immediately thought of lenses: “Positive meniscus!” he exclaimed.In their political activism, Mr. Cannon-Brookes is often the public face, posting on Twitter and talking to the news media, while Mr. Farquhar focuses on Canberra, the capital — where this week he caused a stir by condemning a new law under which tech companies can be forced to build tools that help law enforcement get around encryption in their products.“Sometimes we try the front door, sometimes we need to blow up the side door,” Mr. Cannon-Brookes said of their political activities.Both became more interested in Australian politics after policies took a sharp turn toward the parochial, with the governing coalition abandoning efforts to address climate change and stoking fears around immigration.That presented a problem for a company that needs to hire talented engineers, often from abroad. And so initially, the founders’ main goal was basic: to make Australia more tech-friendly and its politicians more tech-aware.First, they hosted a coding class for elected officials and started working to get engineering into more curriculums.“It was like organizing the world’s worst wedding,” Mr. Cannon-Brookes said.Still, it earned them some respect. “They do some wonderfully creative things,” said Julie Bishop, who was deputy leader of the Liberal Party from 2007 to 2018. “Mike and Scott have an enormously influential role to play.”Australia just passed Switzerland as the richest country in the world as measured by household median wealth, and Mr. Cannon-Brookes thinks its reliance on mineral wealth has made the country slower to make tech investment or long-term economic change a priority.Mr. Cannon-Brookes is especially passionate about climate change. As Prime Minister Scott Morrison has walked back Australia’s renewable energy ambitions, Mr. Cannon-Brookes has become a staunch critic.“You’ve made me mad &amp; inspired me,” he told the prime minister on Twitter, adding an expletive for emphasis.Along with goading Elon Musk to bring Australia the world’s largest battery to help solve its power problems, Mr. Cannon-Brookes has been gathering others in the Australian business community to push Canberra. Peter Dutton, the home affairs minister, has told the Atlassian founders to “stick to their knitting.”“His knitting is running the country well, and he doesn’t seem to be doing it,” Mr. Cannon-Brookes said.He personally invests in alternative fuel and food sources, and he is especially interested in controlled-environment agriculture. “My wife and I have a big belief in the future of insects as a food source,” Mr. Cannon-Brookes said over brunch (granola, not insects).Mr. Farquhar tends to focus on the issues aligned with Atlassian’s fortunes: cybersecurity (he says the new encryption law has cost the company customers) and immigration (he argues that the government is hurting recruitment and innovation by aiming to cut Australia’s immigration intake).It is not at all clear whether he can influence the encryption law; potential amendments are due to be debated in Parliament this week, and no changes are expected.But on immigration, Atlassian’s founders have moved the needle. After Australia’s skilled worker program cut several technology roles (including web developer) from its approved visa categories, Mr. Farquhar and Mr. Cannon-Brookes lobbied Parliament to change course and add more opportunities for international recruitment.On a ferry ride to work, Mr. Farquhar pointed out the two founders’ houses, huge estates set into the lush Sydney hillside. Before they bought the properties, plans had been made to tear down the houses and develop the lots.Mr. Cannon-Brookes and his family moved in a few weeks ago. He and Mr. Farquhar created a hole in the fence so their children could play together. One day a week, the founders pick up their children at school together and take the ferry home.“It’s a changing of the guard,” Mr. Farquhar said, referring to the houses. “They were owned by two newspaper families. It used to be newspaper dynasties, and now it’s technology dynasties.”It was a symbolically significant transition. The Fairfax family, a newspaper dynasty, had owned the properties since 1901.“It was an establishment family, a very conservative family, very committed members of the Congregational Church, and they were mainstays of Sydney’s exclusive eastern suburbs,” said Bridget Griffen-Foley, a professor of media at Macquarie University in Sydney. “So it’s quite symbolic that the fortunes of the old media dynasty have been so affected by digital disruption, and now you’ve got tech billionaires taking over.”This is a big change for Australia, where software entrepreneurs do not have the kind of cultural sway they have in the United States and elsewhere.“Most of the mansions owned by the neighbors are offshore billionaires or really old Australian money — mineral money, gold rush money,” said Mr. Jones, the venture capitalist. “It’s been 100 years since most of the families on Sydney Harbor made their money.”Money notwithstanding, running a growing tech company in Australia is a challenge, the founders said. Recruitment is hard. Two-thirds of Atlassian’s work force is in San Francisco.The founders have formed a cohort of friends with big tech companies outside Silicon Valley, including Daniel Ek, the Swedish chief executive of Spotify, and Ryan Smith of Qualtrics, who is based in Utah.“We’ve got all the same problems,” Mr. Cannon-Brookes said.And so every two years the Atlassian founders have hosted a private retreat, inviting every Australian start-up valued over $100 million, which is about a dozen. They hike and fish. Families are invited. The goal is to encourage camaraderie and share best practices.It is one of many reasons the two men say they would not leave Australia for Silicon Valley.“I know the U.S. very well, and I know Australia very well,” Mr. Farquhar said. “And I think we’ve got it better here.”Want more Australia coverage and discussion? Sign up for the weekly Australia Letter, start your day with your local Morning Briefing and join us in our Facebook group.
Supported byBy Tiffany HsuA report submitted to a Senate committee about Russian attempts to influence the 2016 election says that social media companies made misleading or evasive claims about whether the efforts tried to discourage voting or targeted African-Americans on their platforms.The report, which is based largely on data provided to Congress by companies such as Facebook and Twitter, was produced for the Senate Intelligence Committee by New Knowledge, a cybersecurity company, along with researchers at Columbia University and Canfield Research. It found the Russian campaign focused on influencing African-Americans and also tried to suppress voting.Researchers wrote that the platforms “may have misrepresented or evaded in some of their statements to Congress” and that “it is unclear whether these answers were the result of faulty or lacking analysis, or a more deliberate evasion.”Here are some past statements from social media companies about Russian targeting of certain demographics and attempts to suppress turnout among Democratic votersIn statements submitted in September to the Senate Intelligence Committee as part of a hearing with Jack Dorsey, the chief executive of Twitter, the company said that it “unequivocally condemns the use of our platform for any election interference activity.” Referring to Tailored Audiences, an advertising feature that can target certain users, the company said it had uncovered a voter suppression effort:“Twitter is not aware of any advertisements targeted with Tailored Audiences that appear to be designed to discourage any United States citizen from voting.”■ In the same submission, Twitter elaborated on that statement, referring to the Russian Internet Research Agency, a notorious troll factory:“Twitter did not see that content created by the Russian Internet Research Agency that constituted voter suppression.”Twitter removed more than 10,000 accounts in September and October that were posing as those of Democrats and posting messages to discourage voting. The company said it had reviewed and removed hundreds of misleading posts about voting rights, including some suggesting that it is possible to vote via text message.■ In October, Facebook also submitted answers to questions from the Senate committee, including one that asked about advertisements that discouraged voting. Facebook said that its policies prohibit ads and other content from misrepresenting information about voting. The company said that it allows authorized advertisers who confirm their identities and locations to run ads in the United States about elections. It did not directly answer questions about whether it knew of ads that focused on members of a particular race or political party.“Facebook is committed to transparency for all ads, including ads with political or issue content. Facebook believes that people should be able to easily understand why they are seeing ads, who paid for them, and what other ads those advertisers are running.”■ When asked whether content created by the Russian Internet Research Agency was designed to discourage voters, Facebook told the Senate committee that “this is an assessment that can be made only by investigators with access to classified intelligence and information from all relevant companies and industries.”“Congress is best placed to use the information we and others provide to inform the public comprehensively and completely, which is why we provided IRA ads and content to the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence for review.”Follow Tiffany Hsu on Twitter: @tiffkhsu.
Supported byBy Emily CochraneWASHINGTON — Presidential budgets are by tradition declared dead on arrival even before the details reach Capitol Hill, and President Trump’s $4.75 trillion budget for the 2020 fiscal year received that greeting in spades on Monday.But with a new Democratic majority in the House, the release of Mr. Trump’s budget blueprints marked the start of a consequential budget season. House Democrats must now work out a blueprint for governing that will define the party’s vision in clear terms — and answer burning questions on health care, taxation, climate change and other policy matters that have dogged the new majority since it took control.In short, it is time for the Democrats to show their cards.“We have a very different set of values and priorities,” Representative John Yarmuth of Kentucky, the chairman of the House Budget Committee, told reporters on Monday. “Ours will be a very realistic budget resolution.”The budget is a nonbinding document, and with Republicans controlling the Senate, it may be impossible for the two chambers to work out their differences. Faced with that prospect, Democratic leadership on Monday discussed not holding a vote on the budget, according to a leadership aide. The meeting, first reported by Politico, did not end with a decision.Just as the first budget of the Tea Party Republican era, in 2011, defined the party for years, a budget passed by House Democrats this year would almost certainly have political consequences.Mr. Yarmuth outlined a number of issues that Democrats hope to address in a budget that he said the committee hoped to unveil by mid-April, pointing to health care savings, a possible immigration-law overhaul and infrastructure investment as likely priorities. He pointed to prescription drug pricing, combating the opioid epidemic, infrastructure and investment in cybersecurity as areas in the administration’s proposal that could yield compromise.“The ingredients — in terms of either end of the Capitol — are there to make a reasonable deal,” Mr. Yarmuth said. “The White House is the wild card.”But even without Republicans, Democrats will need to find common ground. An increasingly vocal left flank is adamant that their initiatives — such as “Medicare for all” and the ambitious Green New Deal — be included in an initial budget blueprint. More moderate Democrats are likely to be just as adamant that they are not.And Mr. Yarmuth appeared to tip his hand when he said that a final budget proposal would probably focus on protecting and restoring elements of the Affordable Care Act, as opposed to endorsing Medicare for all.This spring’s budget will force Democratic leadership to weigh the limitations of divided government against the desires of members who won their seats by promising to shake things up in Washington.In 2011, House Republicans — who also faced a Senate and a White House under the control of the opposing party — lost support from rank-and-file members as they muscled through an ambitious budget devised to limit federal spending. The budget produced by the Budget Committee chairman at the time, Paul D. Ryan, included deep domestic spending cuts and plans to offer voucherlike “premium support” to older Americans to buy private insurance outside Medicare. Democrats used that budget as a political cudgel.Democrats face the same prospects, and they are divided on which policies to enshrine in the blueprint. In an effort to hear a range of perspectives, Mr. Yarmuth has met with the Congressional Progressive Caucus and is scheduled to meet with the Blue Dog Coalition, a group of Democrats who preach fiscal discipline, to discuss the coming budget. Both groups have members on the Budget Committee.“So far, we haven’t run into any huge ideological obstacles to putting together a reasonable budget,” Mr. Yarmuth said.Representative Ro Khanna, a liberal Democrat from California and a member of the committee, said he planned to advocate the inclusion of Medicare for all and other facets of a progressive agenda, as well as rolling back some elements of Republican tax cuts passed under Mr. Trump and President George W. Bush.“We have to make the case for economic growth for progressive policies,” Mr. Khanna said in an interview. Including Medicare for all in the final budget provides an opportunity for Democrats to “explain to the American people that this is going to save average families and the country money.”He acknowledged that it was unlikely that there would be a complete embrace of all of the policies, particularly the Green New Deal’s sweeping plan for tackling climate change and providing jobs, but that should not deter Democrats from including some nods to the broader vision.“That pragmatic vision has to be done side by side with the aspirational one,” he said.Lawmakers also have to contend with a ballooning federal deficit and a looming deadline to address spending caps that Congress put in place under President Barack Obama. While Mr. Trump’s budget proposal technically adheres to the limitations, Mr. Yarmuth said the side were far from an ideal starting point in negotiations.“We’re so far apart in our priorities that we have to wonder if the White House is going to be a serious negotiator, and that’s disturbing,” Mr. Yarmuth said. “But, on the other hand, this is a proposal not unlike the one they submitted last year, and we ultimately came up with a spending agreement.”
Supported bywith interestPlus, the latest news on Boeing’s plane troubles, and more Brexit angst.By Charlotte CowlesWant this column in your inbox? Sign up here.Here’s your roundup of the top news in business and tech, plus all you need to know for the week ahead. Even if your March Madness bracket was a flop, at least you can feel good about your news I.Q.MARCH 31-APRIL 6Boeing’s grounded fleet of 737 Max jets probably won’t be back in the air anytime soon. A preliminary report on what caused one of the aircraft to crash in Ethiopia last month determined that the pilots followed all of Boeing’s safety protocols. While investigators stopped short of blaming the company for the plane crash, the report does put more pressure on the manufacturer and aviation authorities to figure out what happened — and to make sure it won’t again. Boeing has already lost one order of its 737 planes from Indonesia’s national airline, and the longer it takes to get the jets cleared for flight, the more customers (and money) it stands to lose. President Trump said on Thursday that he planned to give Mexico a “one-year warning” to stop drug smuggling and illegal immigration or he’ll close the southern border. This was a big step back from a threat he had made the week before, when he said he’d close the border in the next few days. His initial statement was followed by widespread panic. A border closing would seriously harm the American economy, halting the daily flow of $1.7 billion of goods and services between the two countries. This would cause food shortages (where would we get our avocados?) and price spikes. It would also hurt the 500,000 legal workers, students, shoppers and tourists who cross the border each day. If you’re getting tired of Facebook’s user data — particularly your own — showing up in places it shouldn’t, you’re in good company. A cybersecurity firm reported this past week that it had stumbled upon a huge cache of Facebook user information on one of Amazon’s cloud computing servers. The information included millions of Facebook users’ passwords, comments, and account names, and all of it could be downloaded by anyone who found it online. The database was closed after Facebook learned about its contents, but considering the rash of similar cases in the past year, this won’t be the last breach of its kind. APRIL 7-13Mr. Trump escalated his sniping at the Federal Reserve on Friday, calling on the organization to cut interest rates and use other means to boost economic growth. He also continued to accuse the Fed chairman, Jerome H. Powell, of throwing water on the economy by raising interest rates last year. It’s unusual for a president to so openly attempt to exert influence over the central bank, but Mr. Trump is taking his efforts a step further by announcing plans to nominate two of his longtime supporters for seats on the Fed’s board. One is his “friend,” the former pizza executive and 2012 presidential hopeful Herman Cain, and the other is Stephen Moore, a conservative economist and adviser to Mr. Trump. Mr. Powell will surely be asked about all of this on Wednesday, after the Fed releases the minutes of its March meeting. European Union leaders will hold a last-minute summit on Wednesday to discuss the fate of Brexit, which has now dragged on past the point of absurdity. Britain is now slated to withdraw from the bloc on April 12 with or without a concrete plan, unless Prime Minister Theresa May can win Parliament’s agreement for another deadline extension. There has been much hand-wringing over the possibility of a no-deal Brexit, which could be disastrous for the British economy as well as its trade partners. To prepare, many businesses have staged their own reverse Brexit, moving operations elsewhere and holding off on investing in British companies. It’s a lose-lose for Britain, and prolonging the process isn’t likely to improve matters. A trade deal with China may finally be nigh. But then again, who really knows? On Thursday, Mr. Trump gathered with the Chinese delegation, which was in Washington for the umpteenth round of negotiations, to say that he’s anticipating an “epic” trade agreement in about four weeks. He was also expected to announce a presidential summit with Xi Jinping of China, presumably to sign that deal, but he stopped short of doing so. “If we have a deal, then we’ll have a summit,” Mr. Trump said. He is under mounting pressure to make good on the lofty promises he made to American businesses about an agreement, but the clock is ticking on the economic damage that trade tensions are wreaking around the world. Jeff and Mackenzie Bezos have finalized the details of their divorce. He will keep 75 percent of their joint shares in Amazon, leaving her with a $36 billion stake — which makes her one of the richest women in the world. Speaking of wealthy people, Tesla’s chief executive, Elon Musk, is still battling with the Securities and Exchange Commission over his ill-advised (and unadvised) tweets about his company. A New York judge gave both parties two weeks to sort out their differences, and recommended that they put on their “reasonableness pants” to do so — a tall order, in this case.
Supported byBy Raymond Zhong and Paul MozurSHANGHAI — The Chinese electronics giant Huawei is preparing to sue the United States government for barring federal agencies from using the company’s products, according to two people familiar with the matter.The lawsuit is to be filed in the Eastern District of Texas, where Huawei has its American headquarters, according to the people, who requested anonymity to discuss confidential plans. The company plans to announce the suit this week.The move could be aimed at forcing the United States government to make its case against the Chinese equipment maker more publicly. It is part of a broad push by Huawei to defend itself against a campaign led by the United States to undermine the company, which Washington sees as a security threat. Executives have spoken out strongly against America’s actions, and new marketing campaigns have been aimed at mending the company’s image among consumers.For many years, United States officials have said Beijing could use Huawei’s telecommunication equipment to spy and disrupt communication networks. The company has denied the allegations, but major wireless carriers such as AT&amp;T and Verizon have effectively been prevented from using Huawei’s equipment as a result.Over the past year, Washington has ramped up its pressure on the firm, which is preparing to take a major role in the construction of next-generation wireless networks around the world. American officials have urged other governments to ban the use of Huawei’s products. This year, the Justice Department filed criminal charges against the company and its chief financial officer in connection with evading American sanctions on Iran.A hearing that is set to begin this week in Canada will determine whether the company’s finance chief, Meng Wanzhou, will be extradited to the United States to face charges. Ms. Meng’s lawyers have sued the Canadian government and police, arguing that the circumstances of her arrest and detention in December violated her rights.[Many Canadians see Ms. Meng’s case as an example of foreign money’s influence in Vancouver.]The criminal case against Ms. Meng in the United States could be complicated by comments from President Trump as the White House has engaged in trade negotiations with China. While criminal cases have traditionally been independent matters, Mr. Trump indicated that Huawei’s fate could be a bargaining chip.During a meeting in the Oval Office with a delegation of Chinese officials last month, Mr. Trump said, “We’ll be making that decision,” when asked if he would drop the criminal charges against Huawei as part of the trade deal. He added, “We’ll be talking to the attorney general.”A lawsuit by Huawei against the United States is expected to challenge a section of a defense spending authorization law that was approved last year. The provision blocks executive agencies from using telecom equipment made by Huawei and another Chinese company, ZTE.According to one of the people familiar with the matter, Huawei is likely to argue that the provision is a “bill of attainder,” or a legislative act that singles out a person or a group for punishment without trial. The Constitution forbids Congress to pass such bills.Huawei’s plans are not final. It could still decide to change course, or to not file a lawsuit at all.The United States Embassy in Beijing did not immediately respond to a request for comment. A call placed outside business hours to the United States Court House in Plano, Tex., where Huawei’s American headquarters are, was not answered.[China announced espionage accusations against a former Canadian diplomat on Monday, days before Ms. Meng’s extradition hearing was set to take place.]In many ways, the Huawei case echoes that of another company that has aroused security concerns in the United States: the Russian cybersecurity firm Kaspersky Lab.Around two years ago, American officials began expressing worries that Moscow could use the company’s software to gather intelligence. The company denied the allegations. But in September 2017, the Department of Homeland Security directed federal agencies to begin removing the company’s products from government systems. Congress then codified the ban in a spending law.Kaspersky filed two lawsuits in response, arguing that the prohibition amounted to a bill of attainder. In May, a judge in the District of Columbia dismissed the suits, ruling that Congress was motivated by the legitimate desire to protect government computer networks against Russian intrusion. The judge also said Kaspersky’s sales to the American government were such a small fraction of the company’s business that the ban was not especially harsh.An appeals court upheld the ruling a few months later. Banning Kaspersky was a “prophylactic, not punitive,” measure, the judge in the appeal, David S. Tatel, wrote.“Given the not insignificant probability that Kaspersky’s products could have compromised federal systems and the magnitude of the harm such an intrusion could have wrought, Congress’s decision to remove Kaspersky from federal networks represents a reasonable and balanced response,” Judge Tatel wrote.Raymond Zhong reported from Shanghai, and Paul Mozur from Hong Kong. Alan Rappeport contributed reporting from Washington.Follow Raymond Zhong and Paul Mozur on Twitter: @zhonggg and @paulmozur.
Supported byLetterTo the Editor:Re “Atlanta Hobbled by Major Cyberattack That Mayor Calls ‘a Hostage Situation’ ” (news article, March 28):Without question, cybersecurity is a public safety issue; it is panic-inducing to think about the damage an attack similar to Atlanta’s could inflict on New York City’s 8.6 million residents.While local governments are certainly vulnerable to such hacks, so, too, are the institutions that keep New York’s economy running: our banks, media and tech companies, real estate companies and hospitals. A sustained, targeted attack on these economic engines could send us into a recession, or worse.Some forward-thinking companies are already investing millions to protect their assets. But New York and other global cities need to support cyber companies developing the latest technology that can keep all our institutions, both public and private, safe.New York recently announced that it will create a dedicated cyber hub to accelerate research and development, an important first step in bringing more cybersecurity options to the marketplace.Atlanta is a stark reminder that such advancements can’t come soon enough.JAMES PATCHETT, NEW YORKThe writer is president and chief executive of the New York City Economic Development Corporation.
Supported byNonfictionWhen you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.By Paul R. PillarTHE PERFECT WEAPON War, Sabotage, and Fear in the Cyber AgeBy David E. Sanger357 pp. Crown. $28.New technologies of destruction have appeared throughout history, from the trireme and gunpowder in past centuries to biological and nuclear weapons in more modern times. Each technology goes through a cycle of development and weaponization, followed only later by the formulation of doctrine and occasionally by efforts to control the weapon’s use. The newest technological means of mayhem are cyber, meaning anything involving the electronic transmission of ones and zeros. The development of cyber capabilities has been rapid and is continuing; doctrine is largely yet to be written; and ideas about control are only beginning to emerge.David E. Sanger’s “The Perfect Weapon” is an encyclopedic account of policy-relevant happenings in the cyberworld. Sanger, a national security correspondent for The New York Times, stays firmly grounded in real events, including communication systems getting hacked and servers being disabled. He avoids the tendency, all too common in futuristic discussions of cyber issues, to spin out elaborate and scary hypothetical scenarios. The book flows from reporting for The Times by Sanger and his colleagues, who have had access, and volunteer informants, that lesser publications rarely enjoy. The text frequently shifts to the first-person singular, along with excerpts from interviews Sanger has had with officials up to and including the president of the United States.The principal focus of the book is cyberwarfare — the use of techniques to sabotage the electronic or physical assets of an adversary — but its scope extends as well to other controversies that flow from advances in information technology. Sanger touches on privacy issues related to the collection of signals intelligence — a business that has been around since before Franklin Roosevelt’s secretary of war, Henry Stimson, talked about gentlemen not reading each other’s mail. He also addresses social media and the problems of misuse that have bedeviled Facebook, including usage by foreign governments for political purposes. These other topics are to some extent a digression from the main topic of cyberwarfare. Intelligence collection and electronic sabotage are different phenomena, which in the United States involve very different legal principles and policy procedures. But Sanger takes note of such differences, and the book’s inclusiveness makes it useful as a one-stop reference for citizens who want to think intelligently about all issues of public policy having a cyber dimension.The combining of that dimension with other security topics, like nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles, is a strength of the book. In an earlier work, “Confront and Conceal,” Sanger told the story of the electronic sabotage of Iran’s nuclear program by means of a computer worm known as Stuxnet. A point of interest in his new book is what he has to say about any similar efforts against North Korea, as the Trump administration intensifies attempts to take advanced weapons out of the North Koreans’ hands. Sanger ponders whether the serial failures of North Korean ballistic missile tests in 2016 reflected a Stuxnet-like attack on that program. He strongly suggests that there was such an effort but is unable to offer hard evidence, only a few possible hints in official comments. Looking beyond missiles, Sanger notes that North Korea’s backwardness generally makes it an unpromising target for cyberwarfare. In the words of a senior official of the United States Cyber Command, “How do you turn out the lights in a country that doesn’t have enough power to turn them on?”“The Perfect Weapon” is at least as much about the cyber activities of America’s adversaries as about any United States programs. Although the backwardness of most North Korean infrastructure may make it an unpromising target for others to attack, thanks to a crash hacker-training program it is now in the cyberwarfare big leagues. This was demonstrated by the attack in 2014 on Sony Pictures in response to a movie Pyongyang didn’t like. A more experienced player is Russia, which Sanger says was hacking into American government systems as early as the 1990s. His description of the cyber portion of Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election is thorough and convincing. It ought to be required reading for anyone who doubts the extent and seriousness of the Russian effort.A common trait of books (including this one) that seek to sound an alarm about a growing threat is overstating what the authors see as inattention, especially official inattention. Even the most well-connected journalist cannot be expected to know everything that national security bureaucracies are worrying about. And whatever may have been cybersecurity’s status in the public consciousness a few years ago, it has since graduated to being a trendy topic, with a plethora of university programs catering to those wanting to enter the field.John Bolton’s recent elimination of the position of cybersecurity coordinator at the National Security Council would seem to support Sanger’s theme of insufficient governmental attention to the subject, but politics unique to the Trump administration are at least as important a factor. As Sanger himself observes, Trump’s “refusal to acknowledge Russia’s pernicious role in the 2016 election, for fear it would undercut his political legitimacy, only exacerbates the problem of formulating a national strategy” on cybersecurity.The paucity of strategy and doctrine on cyberwarfare is less a product of inattention than of the still-early stage of this latest technology of destruction. The lack of doctrine and especially the lack of consensus on controlling destructive use of cyber tools also reflect the trade-offs and complexities that Sanger’s book lays out well. Chief among these is a reluctance to forgo, in the name of defense and security, methods that could be useful offensively, especially when their use occupies a gray area between peace and war. American officials may see implants in someone else’s computer networks as a prudent step given the possibility of war, even though when the same kind of implants have been discovered in United States systems, Sanger notes, “the U.S. was outraged — understandably — and assumed the worst.”Another complication concerns the role of the private sector, as not just a developer and supplier of the technology but as an operator. Corporate America once believed that what was good for General Motors was good for the country, and vice versa. Today Silicon Valley — burned by leaks about past cooperation with government agencies that have raised users’ concerns about privacy — doesn’t see things that way.Sanger displays a journalist’s bias against secrecy and repeatedly blames what he calls the intelligence agencies’ “paranoia about protecting sources and methods” for an insufficient public discussion of cybersecurity, which he sees in turn as the prime reason for insufficient strategy and doctrine. But showing more leg while risking those sources and methods would not improve public understanding of the core issues involved.And there are other valid reasons not to reveal everything Washington knows about other governments’ cyber activities. Sanger criticizes Barack Obama for not making more of a public case about Russia’s election interference but does not explain how Obama could have done so without appearing to interfere in the election himself. Today, making public whatever the United States knows about North Korea’s cyber mischief would not improve the chances for success in the already dicey nuclear diplomacy with Pyongyang.The great value of “The Perfect Weapon” is less in its specific policy prescriptions than in its being the most comprehensive, readable source of information and insight about the policy quandaries that modern information technology and its destructive potential have spawned.Paul R. Pillar is a retired C.I.A. officer whose most recent book is “Why America Misunderstands the World.”OpinionJared Cohen
Supported byBy Adam Satariano and Joanna BerendtLONDON — The Polish authorities arrested two people, including a Chinese employee of the telecommunications giant Huawei, and charged them with spying for Beijing, officials said on Friday, as the United States and its allies move to restrict the use of Chinese technology because of concerns that it is being used for espionage.The arrest of the Huawei employee is almost certain to escalate tensions between Western countries and China over the company, which the authorities in the United States have accused of acting as an arm of the Chinese government and making equipment designed for spying.In December, the daughter of Huawei’s founder was arrested in Canada at the request of the United States, which said she had committed fraud as part of a scheme to violate American sanctions against companies doing business with Iran. It was unclear whether the arrests in Poland had been requested by the United States. But a senior Western diplomat who was briefed on them said the Justice Department had been working with the Polish government.Europe is increasingly a battleground in the fight over Huawei, the world’s second-largest smartphone maker and a top supplier of networking equipment. The company’s sales in the region have been growing, but many countries there now face pressure to reconsider its presence, particularly as construction begins for the next-generation wireless networks known as 5G. Germany, Britain, the Czech Republic and Norway are among the nations that have recently questioned how deeply Huawei should be involved in developing 5G infrastructure.Many of the countries adopting this stance are allies of the United States. Poland, specifically, is regarded by the State Department as “one of the United States’ strongest partners” in continental Europe. And Andrus Ansip, the European Union’s vice president, said last month that countries in the region should be “worried” about Huawei and other Chinese companies because of the cybersecurity risks they pose.Other countries face the same dilemma. In December, Japan barred Huawei from obtaining government contracts, and Australia and New Zealand have taken steps to block the company from being involved in the building of 5G networks in those countries. And the Czech National Cyber and Information Security Agency recently restated its long-standing warnings about Huawei and ZTE, another Chinese telecommunications company.“Picking sides may be unavoidable,” said Lukasz Olejnik, a research associate at the Center for Technology and Global Affairs at Oxford University, which studies the impact of technology on international relations. “This is a difficult policy conundrum.”Huawei has long denied spying for the Chinese government. On Friday, a spokesman for the company said it had no comment on the arrest in Poland and insisted that it “complies with all applicable laws and regulations in the countries where it operates.”The second person arrested is an employee of the French telecommunications company Orange, which confirmed that its office had been raided and that the man’s belongings had been seized.“We are ready to cooperate with the Internal Security Agency and make any information it needs available,” the Orange spokesman, Wojciech Jabczynski, said.Hu Xijin, the editor in chief of Global Times, a state-run, nationalist newspaper in China, took a swipe at Poland on Twitter on Friday, writing: “Anything in Poland that is worthy of stealing for Huawei? Polish national security department flatters itself.”In another message, he said he had met up with a friend who works at Huawei. “He said Huawei is facing great difficulties communicating with Western public opinion,” Mr. Hu wrote. “I said Huawei has been trying to distance itself from politics, but it has grown too big that politics is coming to its door. Huawei is innocent.”The arrested Huawei employee was identified by the authorities only as Weijing W. He was involved in the company’s sales operations in the country, officials said. According to Polish television, Weijing W. graduated from Beijing Foreign Studies University with a degree in Polish studies and once worked at the Chinese Consulate in Gdansk, Poland. He began working for Huawei in 2011.The Orange employee was identified as Piotr D., a Polish citizen and former agent of Poland’s internal security service.Polish law enforcement officers raided the homes and offices of the two men on Tuesday, officials said. The authorities then had to wait two days to obtain arrest warrants, typical for Poland. Officials did not offer details on the alleged crimes, but said the men would be held for three months while the investigation continued. Both have pleaded not guilty and have refused to answer questions, the Polish state television broadcaster, TVP, reported.The senior Western diplomat briefed on the investigation, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, would not describe the level of cooperation between Poland and the United States. The official also declined to discuss specifics of the case or evidence that may have been shared with the Polish government.But the official said the threat posed by Huawei was a high priority for American officials throughout Europe.Huawei was founded in 1987 by Ren Zhengfei, a former People’s Liberation Army engineer. The company’s equipment is the backbone of mobile networks around the world, and its smartphones are popular in Europe and China. Huawei has grown into China’s largest maker of telecom equipment, generating more than $90 billion in revenue in 2017.The company has been a leading contender to design 5G networks in Europe and other parts of the world, but the security concerns of Western countries have repeatedly hampered its expansion plans. In a 2012 report, American lawmakers said Huawei and ZTE were effectively arms of the Chinese government whose equipment was being used for espionage. Security firms have reported finding software installed on Chinese-made phones that sends users’ personal data to China.For many years, the United States, where large mobile carriers such as AT&amp;T have avoided using Huawei equipment in their networks, has presented the biggest obstacles to the company.Last year, United States intelligence agencies told a Senate panel that Americans should not use Chinese telecom products, and some major American retailers have stopped selling them. The Federal Communications Commission is also considering whether to prohibit American telecom businesses from using equipment from any company deemed a national security risk, a move aimed primarily at Huawei and ZTE that would effectively shut them out of creating 5G mobile networks.Huawei has focused on Europe instead, opening several research and development hubs in the region. More than a quarter of its 2017 revenue came from Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Only the Chinese market is more important to the company.Telecommunication companies in Europe have strong relationships with Huawei. Deutsche Telekom said in December that it had begun testing a 5G network in Poland using Huawei equipment. Mr. Jabczynski, the Orange spokesman, said Huawei was the only company in Poland ready to provide equipment that met criteria set by state regulations.Huawei also has around a quarter of the market for smartphones in Poland, according to the technology research firm Canalys. That makes it the country’s second-largest phone seller after Samsung.But the challenges facing Huawei in Europe are mounting.British officials raised alarms about the company’s products last year. The Czech Republic’s cybersecurity watchdog has warned against using Huawei and ZTE products. And just this week, Tor Mikkel Wara, Norway’s justice minister, told Reuters that “we share the same concerns as the United States and Britain, and that is espionage on private and state actors in Norway.”In Poland, at least one of the country’s main mobile carriers has been edging away from the company. The carrier, Play, has long relied on the company as an equipment supplier. And China Development Bank, a state-backed lender, has helped finance Play’s buying of Huawei equipment, according to the website of Lasanoz Finance, an advisory firm that says it worked on the deal. When Play listed its shares on the Warsaw stock exchange in 2017, it said Huawei had provided a “significant portion” of the equipment on its network.But last July, as concerns about Chinese hardware grew, Play announced that it had chosen Ericsson as an additional supplier for certain components.The arrests in Poland promised to generate more concerns about the company, said David Balson, a former official in the British intelligence agency GCHQ who is now the director of intelligence at Ripjar, a threat detection company in London.“There is no good outcome whether it’s true or not true,” Mr. Balson said. “There is no good way of spinning it.”Poland and other countries that crack down on Huawei risk retaliation from China. Shortly after the Canadian authorities arrested Meng Wanzhou, the daughter of Mr. Ren, the Huawei founder, China detained two Canadian citizens last month and accused them of undermining China’s national security. China has since detained other Canadians.Ms. Meng has been freed on bail in Vancouver, British Columbia, pending a decision on whether she should be extradited to the United States. This week, the public face of Huawei in Canada, Scott Bradley, left the company.“This will definitely increase tension in Europe,” said Christian Schmidkonz, a professor of Asian-Pacific business studies at the Munich Business School.An earlier version of this article misstated David Balson’s title at Ripjar. He is the company’s director of intelligence, not its chief executive.Follow Adam Satariano and Joanna Berendt on Twitter: @satariano and @JoannaBerendt.Adam Satariano reported from London, and Joanna Berendt from Warsaw. Reporting was contributed by Raymond Zhong from Beijing, Marc Santora from Warsaw, Kate Conger from San Francisco, and Edward Wong and Julian E. Barnes from Washington.
Supported byBitsBy Farhad Manjoo and Nicole PerlrothEach Friday, Farhad Manjoo and Mike Isaac, technology reporters at The New York Times, review the week’s news, offering analysis and maybe a joke or two about the most important developments in the tech industry. Mike is off this week, so Nicole Perlroth, who covers cybersecurity, took his place. Farhad: O.K., it was a big week in tech. We should probably start with the thing we’ve been talking about every week for, what, 300 years now? Facebook and Russia. In a report this week, a couple of our colleagues found that when Russian operatives set out to sow civil unrest in America on Facebook, they turned to an obvious source — political messages posted by Americans.The Russians created Facebook pages that had names like “Being Patriotic” and “Blacktivist,” and they populated their pages with videos and memes created by Americans — for instance, a hoax story about Muslim men collecting welfare checks for multiple wives. I found the story fascinating because the whole thing is so banal. You have this picture of foreign spies using James Bond-type technology to go after an enemy’s political system. Nope, turns out they went about it exactly how you or I might do it — they found some videos online and posted them on Facebook.Nicole: Yup. It turns out the Kremlin has found their sweet spot in the ugly fault lines in American politics. They’ve truly exploited our country’s political grievances, cultural resentments, news literacy and diminishing faith in once-trusted institutions like the news media to bring out the worst in us, simply by creating some Facebook pages. Who would have thought that Russians would be behind a pro-Texas fan page disseminating pro-secessionist Texas messages, or a “Blacktivist” page advocating for more protests against racial inequality?Farhad: It wasn’t just Facebook. Google disclosed this week that Russian operatives also bought ads on its platform to interfere with the 2016 race. The amounts were small — about $4,700 in ads from the Russian government — but they added to the overall story line, which is that the tech giants’ platforms are being used in ways they probably had never foreseen.Nicole:  Did we really think Russia was going to try to hack election databases in 21 states, and pour that many resources into Facebook and not touch Google, the No. 1 source of information for most Americans?It’s frustrating that this is only coming out now, but to be fair, much of the Russian activity was not exactly obvious. The silver lining is that we may finally be getting some answers. This week, the House Intelligence Committee said it would turn over Russian Facebook ad content, after meeting with Facebook’s chief operating officer, Sheryl Sandberg.Farhad: Let’s turn to another story about Russian spies, this one not at all banal. The United States recently discovered that a Russian antivirus company, Kaspersky Lab, had been compromised by the Russian government. The software was essentially being used as a kind of search engine for spying — the Russians could search through the files of people who’d installed the software, and in some cases it led them to classified documents, including from an employee of the National Security Agency who had stored files on a home computer.That’s pretty amazing by itself. But what was most amazing was how the spying was discovered — because Israeli spies were watching the Russians spy on the Americans, as you and Scott Shane reported. That’s crazy! Can you explain how it went down?Nicole: My reporting can basically be summed up as: Spies were spying on spies spying on spies’ spying. Are you with me?Farhad: Er….Nicole: So in 2014, the Israeli government hackers managed to compromise Kaspersky Lab, a Russian antivirus company with 400 million users, many of them in Western Europe and the United States.Here I should mention that some two dozen American federal agencies used Kaspersky’s software, including some of the most critical agencies like the Department of Energy, which oversees our nuclear program. Kaspersky was so thoroughly “owned” by the Israelis, that nearly a year later when Kaspersky’s researchers discovered the intrusion, its own researchers called the Israeli attack code “the best we have ever seen.”As it turns out, the Israelis were so deep inside Kaspersky’s systems that they watched — in real time — as Russian spies used Kaspersky’s systems effectively as a Google search box for American classified government programs. The Israelis caught Russian spies searching any computer that contained Kaspersky’s software for the words “Top Secret,” in a sense abusing Kaspersky’s deep access to the innards of more than 400 million people’s machines to search for American government classified programs.In at least one case, the spies struck gold: They discovered a trove of highly classified National Security Agency programs on an agency employee’s personal computer. Apparently the employee had installed the Kaspersky software on his home computer, not knowing that in doing so he was giving Russians full access to some of the N.S.A.’s most coveted programs for penetrating foreign networks.Israel was able to capture all of this in real time and provided the N.S.A. with evidence in the forms of screenshots and other documentation, which is how the N.S.A. learned the source of this particular leak. The tip also prompted tons of internal discussions and studies within the United States intelligence community, which eventually led to a government ban on Kaspersky products last month.Farhad: Kaspersky is a real mystery in this. They’ve denied any wrongdoing, but is it plausible that they wouldn’t have had an idea that their tools had been infiltrated by the Russian government?Nicole: This is the mystery indeed. I sent Kaspersky a detailed list of questions that gave them ample opportunity to offer any explanations. But they declined to answer any of those questions. Instead they put out a short vague statement and sent me a Rihanna GIF on Twitter.There are still some possible technical explanations for how Russia could have used Kaspersky as a backdoor without Kaspersky’s knowledge. But most counterintelligence experts, including one we quoted from the Central Intelligence Agency, insist there is no way these kinds of broad scans for United States intelligence could have been conducted without Kaspersky’s knowledge.And even if Kaspersky was not complicit, these experts say, that would still mean Kaspersky is either grossly incompetent or horrendously compromised. As a security company, neither is optimal.Farhad: That’s been quite the week! Thanks for joining me, Nicole. See you!Nicole: Ciao! Or as they say in Russian “Прощай!”Farhad Manjoo, who joined the Times in 2013, writes a weekly technology column called State of the Art. Nicole Perlroth joined The Times in 2011 and covers cybersecurity. You can follow them on Twitter here: @fmanjoo and @NicolePerlroth.Farhad Manjoo, who joined the Times in 2013, writes a weekly technology column called State of the Art. Nicole Perlroth joined The Times in 2011 and covers cybersecurity. You can follow them on Twitter here: @fmanjoo and @NicolePerlroth.
