Supported byAnother ViewBy Craig A. NewmanGet the DealBook newsletter to make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.__________Shareholders haven’t been successful in holding companies accountable for data breaches.That changed in the first month of 2019.The former officers and directors of Yahoo agreed to pay $29 million to settle charges that they breached their fiduciary duties in their handling of customer data during a series of cyberattacks from 2013 until 2016. Three billion Yahoo user accounts were compromised in the attacks. The settlement ended three so-called derivative lawsuits filed in Delaware and California against the company’s former leadership team and board, including Marissa Mayer, Yahoo’s former chief executive. Insurance coverage will pick up the tab.The settlement, approved this month by a Superior Court judge in Santa Clara, Calif., marked the first time that shareholders have been awarded a monetary damages in a derivative lawsuit related to a data breach. There have been very few breach-related derivative lawsuits, and all had been dismissed by the courts or settled without a payment to the shareholders.A derivative lawsuit is a legal mechanism that gives the owners of a company — the shareholders — a way to hold corporate directors and management accountable for their actions. Shareholders file a claim on the company’s behalf, with any money recovered going to the corporation, not the individual shareholders, because the violation harmed only the organization.Under the Yahoo settlement, the lawyers walk away with about $11 million in fees and expenses, with the remaining $18 million paid to Yahoo, now called Altaba after Verizon acquired Yahoo’s internet business in 2017.A $29 million settlement might seem trivial for a company that has a market capitalization of $38 billion. But it signals that director and officer liability for cybersecurity oversight is entering new and potentially perilous territory. That is especially so in cases like Yahoo’s, in which shareholders allege egregious misconduct at the highest levels of an organization.Those allegations might explain why the Yahoo case was settled.Insurers don’t typically cough up tens of millions of dollars to settle derivative cases, which can be tough for shareholders to win. They must show that board members breached their fiduciary responsibilities by consciously disregarding their duties. The chief justice of the Delaware Supreme Court has called these claims “possibly the most difficult theory in corporation law upon which a plaintiff might hope to win a judgment.”The parties jointly told the court that the settlement was fair, in the best interest of all parties, and that a series of data security improvements have been worked out to minimize the chances that this will happen again. But the facts of the case most likely led the insurers to conclude that their exposure could be greater than the settlement.The reason is that the actions alleged in the lawsuit are outrageous. The nearly 120-page complaint — which is heavily redacted — reads at points more like a criminal indictment than a lawsuit. It accuses Yahoo’s former leaders of engaging in an elaborate, yearslong plot to cover up hacks going back to 2013 and conducting a “sham” investigation to “conceal the largest hacking incident in U.S. history.”Yahoo was a pioneer of the internet era, and the core of its business was providing ways for users to communicate with one another confidentially. Yet Yahoo failed miserably at this fundamental mission, according to the shareholders’ complaint. The expectations for consumer privacy and data security are far different for an internet company than a corner hardware store. The insurance carriers clearly understood this fact.The company’s settlement with the Securities and Exchange Commission in April provided further fodder to justify a settlement. The S.E.C. tagged Altaba with a $35 million penalty for failing to make a timely disclosure of the data breach, the commission’s first action for a cybersecurity disclosure violation.But it’s the details of the S.E.C. settlement that most likely proved the most troubling for the insurers. According to the S.E.C., “In late 2014, Yahoo had learned of a massive breach of its user database that resulted in the theft, unauthorized access or acquisition of hundreds of millions of its user’s personal data.” The agency further alleged that “Yahoo senior management and relevant legal staff did not properly assess the scope, business impact or legal implications of the breach” and “did not share information regarding the breach with Yahoo’s auditors or outside counsel.”Yahoo didn’t disclose the breach until September 2016, when it was negotiating the sale of its internet business to Verizon. Although the transaction was completed, the acquisition price was lowered by $350 million to $4.48 billion. That made for bad optics, a fact that the insurers probably recognized.Any company that figured it had little to fear from shareholders after a breach should now think twice. And in the meantime, this is definitely not the time to cut back insurance for officers and directors.Craig A. Newman is a partner and chair of the privacy practice at Patterson Belknap Webb &amp; Tyler, a New York law firm.

Supported byBy Remy Tumin and Hiroko Masuike(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. Top leaders of intelligence agencies made their annual appearance before the Senate to discuss the biggest threats to national security.Cyberthreats from China and Russia were high on the agenda. Among other observations: North Korea is “unlikely to give up” all of its nuclear stockpiles and Iran is not actively trying to make a nuclear bomb — both direct contradictions of President Trump’s foreign policy tenets. Above from left, the F.B.I. director, Christopher Wray; the C.I.A. director, Gina Haspel; and the director of national intelligence, Dan Coats.Also notable was the absence of any rationale for building a wall along the southwestern border, which Mr. Trump has characterized as the country’s most critical security threat._____2. It’s so cold that…This is not the setup to a bad joke. Temperatures are growing dangerously low across the Midwest this week. You could get frostbite in as little as five minutes; it will be warmer in Antarctica than in Des Moines; it could feel like minus 65 in Minneapolis.Hundreds of schools are being closed, and the governors of Illinois, Michigan and Wisconsin have declared emergencies. Above, Lake Michigan freezing over in Chicago.How can it get so cold if the Earth is warming? Because climate and weather are not the same thing._____3. British lawmakers, voting on a broad spectrum of amendments to Prime Minister Theresa May’s E.U. withdrawal plan, embraced a measure that, in principle, rules out withdrawing without a deal.Parliament also rejected delaying Brexit beyond the March 29 deadline. Above, protesters on both sides of the issue outside Parliament on Tuesday.Before the voting session, Mrs. May raised the stakes by promising to reopen negotiations on the agreement — a 585-page text that the E.U. has said was its final offer. Critics think she is trying to run down the clock to present them with two options: her plan or no deal._____4. The U.S. State Department said it gave Juan Guaidó, above, the right to control Venezuelan assets and property in U.S. banks, one week after he declared himself the interim president of his country.The move is the latest part of the U.S. campaign to oust President Nicolás Maduro, whose re-election has been widely contested — but who still has the backing of the country’s generals.Venezuela has begun moving, carefully, against Mr. Guaidó. The chief prosecutor announced a formal investigation of him for antigovernment activities and encouraging protests. His assets have been frozen, and the government is trying to stop him from leaving the country._____5. Apple appears to be entering a rare period of vulnerability. The company said that profits were flat this quarter compared with a year ago, citing an economic slump in China.Consumer demand in China for expensive iPhones has slowed, particularly with the rise of cheaper, local alternatives. The company is also uniquely vulnerable to tariffs against China, where most of its products are assembled. Above, today at the New York Stock Exchange.And in another embarrassment for Apple, an iPhone bug allowed FaceTime users to eavesdrop through its video and audio calling app. Here’s how to disable FaceTime to avoid the glitch._____6. Pacific Gas and Electric, California’s largest utility, filed for bankruptcy protection. It is facing tens of billions of dollars in liability claims for two years of wildfires.Equipment owned and maintained by the utility sparked at least 17 of the 21 major wildfires that burned through California in 2017, but some argue that climate change and development in remote areas have made blazes more destructive. Above, a PG&amp;E crew working on power lines during the Camp Fire in November.The utility serves 16 million customers, whose electricity might become more expensive as PG&amp;E tries to recoup its losses from the fires. Here are answers to some other big questions about the bankruptcy._____7. Today’s 2020 update: Senator Kamala Harris, the most high-profile and politically connected black woman to run for president, would seem well positioned to secure the support of black voters that buoyed former President Barack Obama in 2008.Yet interviews in early primary states like South Carolina and her home state, California, show the challenges she faces: activists’ skepticism of her record as a prosecutor, the desire for a push further to the left, sexism and some concern that a female candidate might not beat President Trump. Above, Ms. Harris at a local sorority chapter in South Carolina.“I don’t know, I need to see her devotion to the African-American community,” said one resident of Columbia, S.C._____8. Want to know why you fall facefirst into the ocean every time you go surfing? Let’s go to the videotapes.At the new Surf Simply resort in Costa Rica, guests are filmed as they catch a wave, and that’s just the start of personalized, tech-based coaching. Surf Simply is so popular that sessions routinely get booked out a year in advance (a one-week stay starts at about $4,500).One repeat surf guest summed it up: “It’s the school for surf nerds — but it’s the coolest nerds you’ve ever met.”_____9. A few words from the stars.Over four seasons, the Netflix series “Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt” turned the story of a woman freed after being kidnapped and held underground for 15 years into a sprightly, joyous comedy.As the series ends, its lead actress, Ellie Kemper, above, reflects on what she learned from her castmates and what it’s like to “be a part of a show that seems to make people feel better.”And the actress and director Lena Dunham pays homage to her literary hero, Diana Athill, the British centenarian who died last week after a life of both fierce independence and marvelous affirmation._____10. Finally, Aztec legend meets science.The axolotl, a tube-sock-like salamander, was thought to be a god who transformed himself to avoid sacrifice. Many animals can perform some degree of regeneration, but axolotls can grow back a nearly perfect replica of just about any body part (excepting, of course, the head).Now, researchers reported the most complete assembly of DNA yet for the striking amphibian, also known as the Mexican walking fish. Fully mapping its genome could unlock some of the secrets of regeneration for humans.Have a restorative night._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.

Supported byletterA cybersecurity expert says multifactor authentication has had a positive effect.To the Editor:Re “Perils of Two-Step Authentication” (Op-Ed, Jan. 28):Josephine Wolff raises legitimate questions about the effectiveness of two-factor authentication and its use as a best practice. But she engages in the timeless tradition of using FUD — fear, uncertainty and doubt — to make her argument. Certainly, multifactor authentication is not the holy grail in identity authentication, but it has had a positive effect in securing data compared with the password-only approach, which has failed miserably. Until we are able to move security completely away from the end user, the end user has a responsibility to do whatever he or she can to manage risk. There will always be vulnerabilities in cybersecurity. Our objective should be to create resilient solutions that manage risk effectively. Best practices are used because they are informed approaches and solutions to common challenges. As we seek to create a culture of cybersecurity awareness around the globe, the best practice of multifactor authentication is not the ultimate goal, but is certainly an important step forward in educating the user on his or her responsibility in cyberspace. Kiersten E. TodtArlington, Va.The writer, a former executive director of the Presidential Commission on Enhancing National Cybersecurity, is managing director of the Cyber Readiness Institute, a nonprofit.

Supported byThe network must be secure enough for the innovations it promises.By Tom WheelerMr. Wheeler is a former chairman of the Federal Communications Commission.The Trump administration’s so-called “race” with China to build new fifth-generation (5G) wireless networks is speeding toward a network vulnerable to Chinese (and other) cyberattacks. So far, the Trump administration has focused on blocking Chinese companies from being a part of the network, but these efforts are far from sufficient. We cannot allow the hype about 5G to overshadow the absolute necessity that it be secure.Our current wireless networks are fourth-generation, or 4G. It was 4G that gave us the smartphone. Reaching the next level of mobile services, however, requires increased speed on the network. Fifth-generation networks are designed to be 10 to 100 times faster than today’s typical wireless connection with much lower latency (response time). These speeds will open up all kinds of new functional possibilities. Those new functions, in turn, will attract cyberintrusions just like honey attracts a bear.Some envision 5G as a kind of “wireless fiber” for the delivery of television and internet much like a cable system does today. Iranians hacking the delivery of “Game of Thrones” isn’t good, but the real transformational promise of 5G goes far beyond wireless cable and its security is much more critical.The most exciting part of the 5G future is how its speed will change the very nature of the internet. Thus far, the internet has been all about transporting data from point A to point B. Today’s internet-connected car may be able to get driving directions sent to it, but it is essentially the same as getting email: the one-way transportation of pre-existing information. The autonomous car is something vastly different, in which the 5G network allows computers to orchestrate a flood of information from multitudes of input sensors for real time, on-the-fly decision-making. It is estimated that the data output of a single autonomous vehicle in one day will be equal to today’s daily data output of three thousand people.Leadership in 5G technology is not just about building a network, but also about whether that network will be secure enough for the innovations it promises. And the 5G “race” is more complex and dangerous than industry and the Trump administration portray. When 5G enables autonomous vehicles, do we want those cars and trucks crashing into each other because the Russians hacked the network? If 5G will be the backbone of breakthroughs such as remote surgery, should that network be vulnerable to the North Koreans breaking into a surgical procedure? Innovators, investors and users need confidence in the network’s cybersecurity if its much-heralded promise is to be realized.“It is imperative that America be first in fifth-generation (5G) wireless technologies,” President Trump wrote in an October Presidential Memorandum of instructions to federal agencies. While the administration, especially the Trump Federal Communications Commission (F.C.C.), makes much of how the 5G “race” with China is a matter of national security, not enough effort is being put into the security of the network itself. Nowhere in the president’s directive, for instance, was there a word about protecting the cybersecurity of the new network.As the President’s National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee told him in November, “the cybersecurity threat now poses an existential threat to the future of the Nation.” Last January, the brightest technical minds in the intelligence community, working with the White House National Security Council (N.S.C.), warned of the 5G cybersecurity threat. When the proposed solutions included security through a federally-owned network backbone, the wireless industry screamed in protest. The chairman of the Trump F.C.C. quickly echoed the industry line that “the market, not government, is best positioned to drive innovation and leadership.” Government ownership may not be practicable, but the concerns in the N.S.C. report have been dismissed too readily.Worse than ignoring the warnings, the Trump administration has repealed existing protections. Shortly after taking office, the Trump F.C.C. removed a requirement imposed by the Obama F.C.C. that the 5G technical standard must be designed from the outset to withstand cyberattacks. For the first time in history, cybersecurity was being required as a forethought in the design of a new network standard — until the Trump F.C.C. repealed it. The Trump F.C.C. also canceled a formal inquiry seeking input from the country’s best technical minds about 5G security, retracted an Obama-era F.C.C. white paper about reducing cyberthreats, and questioned whether the agency had any responsibility for the cybersecurity of the networks they are entrusted with overseeing.The simple fact is that our wireless networks are not as secure as they could be because they weren’t designed to withstand the kinds of cyberattacks that are now common. This isn’t the fault of the companies that built the networks, but a reflection that when the standards for the current fourth-generation (4G) technology were set years ago, cyberattacks were not a front-and-center concern.The Trump administration has been told that cybersecurity is an “existential risk.” The new Congress should use its oversight power to explore just why the administration has failed to protect against that risk, especially when it comes to the next generation of networks.Tom Wheeler, the chairman of the Federal Communications Commission from 2013 to 2017, is a visiting fellow at the Brookings Institution and a fellow at the Harvard Kennedy School. His new book, “From Gutenberg to Google: The History of Our Future,” will be published in February.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported byBy Conrad De AenlleExchange-traded funds became the next big thing in portfolio management a couple of decades ago by being cheaper and easier to trade than mutual funds.These days, some managers are offering E.T.F.s as tools for specialization at the expense of diversification, carving up the stock market into ever thinner slices for investors eager to find other next big things.E.T.F.s have evolved from covering only broad indexes, such as the S&amp;P 500, to sectors like energy and health care, industries like homebuilding and gold mining, and lately to subsets of industries — niches within niches — often in ultracool areas like robotics, cybersecurity and video gaming that capture investors’ imaginations and then their money.While investment advisers occasionally use thematic funds when managing assets for their clients, they typically encourage small investors to avoid the practice, no matter how enticing it might be to try to find the next Amazon, Netflix or Google before it becomes a technological colossus.“We would prefer that someone build a portfolio around more diversified funds,” said Jason Browne, chief investment strategist of the FundX Investment Group, a firm that manages fund portfolios for high-net-worth individuals. He warned: “If you’re an average investor, you will probably look back and think this is something you were sold and not something thoughtfully invested in that’s aligned with your long-term goals.”Like Mr. Browne, Christopher Cordaro, chief investment officer of RegentAtlantic, a Morristown, N.J., financial-planning firm, said he sees more fund marketing than fund management at work with narrowly focused E.T.F.s.“It sort of reminds me of ‘The Graduate,’ when the guy takes Benjamin aside and says, ‘I’ve got one word: plastics,’” Mr. Cordaro said. Providers of these funds “are looking for things that sound good to people, then they give them an itch they’ll want to scratch.”Sam Masucci, chief executive of the ETF Managers Group, which manages about $3 billion across 12 thematic portfolios, said funds dedicated to such narrow market segments are especially dependent on investor demand and are introduced in areas experiencing a surge in popularity.His company’s thematic funds are a mix of actively managed and passively managed portfolios. In addition to cybersecurity and gaming funds, they cover some highly focused, even obscure, industries, including mobile payments and drone technology. And for anyone worried that all that cutting-edge technology will make human beings too efficient and productive, the company also offers the Alternative Harvest fund, which invests in companies involved in marijuana production.Anyone interested in these areas, despite admonitions like Mr. Browne’s, has several alternatives to choose from.A recent report on thematic E.T.F.s by Todd Rosenbluth, director of E.T.F. and mutual fund research at CFRA Research, highlighted two gaming funds — VanEck Vectors Video Gaming and eSports, and ETFMG Video Game Tech — and two that invest in cybersecurity: ETFMG Prime Cyber Security and First Trust Nasdaq Cybersecurity.The report also mentioned four that cover the burgeoning field of robotics: ROBO Global Robotics and Automation Index, Global X Robotics and Artificial Intelligence, First Trust Nasdaq Artificial Intelligence and Robotics, and iShares Robotics and Artificial Intelligence.The performance of many of them last year illustrates the perils of owning an idea that would seem to have a lot of promise but so far has not delivered on it. The S&amp;P 500 fell 6.2 percent last year, and the Nasdaq Composite Index, a benchmark for technology stocks, lost 3.9 percent. The ETFMG gaming fund lagged both indexes badly, losing 18.8 percent, while the VanEck gaming fund was down 12.6 percent just since its introduction in mid-October.The cybersecurity funds did much better. ETFMG Prime Security rose 6.5 percent in 2018, and the First Trust fund eked out a 1.3 percent gain.As for the robotics portfolios, their returns have been awful. None of the four came close to matching the Nasdaq index. Losses last year ranged between 14 percent and 29 percent.Because interest in these areas tends to come and go, Mr. Browne uses thematic E.T.F.s to carry out short-term asset allocation decisions. Haim Israel, head of thematic investing at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, by contrast, views several technologies covered by the E.T.F.s as long-term opportunities.The business and investment prospects associated with themes like Big Data, artificial intelligence, privacy and cyberthreats, the report said, will be helped by a “techceleration” resulting from the introduction of so-called 5G technology featuring much faster data transmission rates. The rollout of 5G “will bring about the fastest transformation in human history,” Mr. Israel predicted. The reduced time it will take to transmit data will help the spread of all sorts of technologies, like gaming or self-driving cars, he said.Mr. Israel’s analysis and outlook are plausible — for the world as it is today and for various technologies as they have developed so far. As for five years from now, who knows? Change, often radical and unforeseeable, is a hallmark of the sector, making most forecasts speculative at best. That is one of the main complaints that investment advisers have with thematic E.T.F.s.“We’ve been around long enough to see a lot of the ‘next big thing,’ said Leon LaBrecque, chief executive of LJPR Financial Advisors in Troy, Mich. “Remember Blockbuster or Boston Chicken? Anyone remember the first search engine? New tech becomes old tech.”For investors interested in taking a shot with thematic E.T.F.s, advisers suggest using risk capital, and then only small amounts of it.Mr. Masucci views thematic E.T.F.s as superior alternatives to buying individual stocks. These E.T.F.s “are a tax efficient, liquid, transparent way to give that exposure without relying on advisers’ ability to pick stocks,” he said.But Mr. Cordaro pointed to a conundrum that anyone contemplating investing in thematic E.T.F.s faces: “Because they can be riskier, you wouldn’t want them to be too much of your portfolio,” no more than 5 percent, he said. “The paradox is that’s not going to move the needle that much. You’re not going to make much money on it.”If you still want to try to move the needle, he advises doing it with funds that emphasize smaller, younger businesses that are pure plays in a particular niche and that don’t fill their portfolios with established companies that only dabble in fledgling technology.Mr. Rosenbluth noted in his report, for instance, that the VanEck and ETFMG gaming funds both hold the gaming stocks Activision and Electronic Arts, but only the ETFMG fund owns the larger, more diversified tech stocks Apple and Microsoft. By contrast, the ETFMG cybersecurity portfolio is more skewed toward smaller software companies than First Trust Nasdaq Cybersecurity, while the latter holds more in big defense companies like Raytheon than the ETFMG fund does.As for the robotics funds, the two with portfolios published on third-party sites like Morningstar’s, ROBO Global Robotics and Global X Robotics, each own big companies like Nvidia and Intuitive Surgical, and smaller ones like Helix Energy Solutions.In the end, the most effective way to invest in the next big thing may be to avoid trying to do it through thematic E.T.F.s at all.“Why even go for that ride is the question,” Mr. Browne said. When you own a diversified fund, “whatever drives the economy is going to be in your portfolio. It doesn’t rely on your or my predictions of what that’s going to be.”Mr. LaBrecque recommended a similarly broad, simple approach.“We can buy the S&amp;P 500 and get the new FANGs,” a reference to Facebook, Amazon, Netflix and Google, “and the next acronym of choice,” he said. “And we can get the companies that make all the stuff people buy on Amazon, and the cars people drive to the store to buy the food to eat while they watch Netflix. And when the next thing comes along, we can own that, as well.”

Supported byBy Melissa EddyBERLIN — After hackers, later determined to be working for Russia, broke into Parliament’s main computer network three years ago, the government vowed to fortify its cybersecurity. The authorities schooled lawmakers about changing passwords, using two-step identification and other measures to protect online data.But on Friday, nearly 1,000 lawmakers and other prominent Germans, including rappers, journalists and internet personalities, awoke to find links to their street and email addresses, private chats from social media, bank account details and pictures of their children published on Twitter, in another major breach aimed at the country’s political establishment.All those attacked had a history of criticizing the far right, whose politicians appeared to be spared, raising suspicion that the hacker or hackers were sympathetic to their agenda, though the authorities said they had no indication yet who was behind the attack.The breach spread a fresh round of alarm in Germany, a country where citizens especially covet their privacy, and once again raised the disconcerting question of whether even the most vigilant and sophisticated individuals and governments can safeguard their computers and the valuable personal, financial and other sensitive information that resides there.Even beyond Germany, the attack fit into a building pattern of breaches with the seeming aim of shaking confidence in the political establishment or undermining important players in it.The weaponization of hacked information has become an increasingly common theme in politics, said Jonas Kaiser, a Harvard University expert who studies online misinformation.“A lot of leaks and hacking campaigns have become a more normal part of the political discourse,” he said.The most notable examples were emails from the Democratic National Committee that were stolen during the 2016 election in the United States and have become part of the investigation into whether Russia sought to tilt the vote in President Trump’s favor. On the eve of voting in France’s 2017 elections, hackers similarly made a public dump of what was presumed to be a mix of real and fake emails from the campaign of Emmanuel Macron, now the president.This time, the leaks went on for more than a month as the hackers teased and dribbled out their bounty. It was only late Thursday, when the Twitter account of a popular German YouTuber, Simon Unge, who has some two million followers, was hijacked that the extent of the attacks finally came into fuller light.Mr. Kaiser said the authorities would try to determine whether the attack was perpetrated by a state-backed group. The release of personal information by an individual or small group would generate a different response than one done by a government, he said.Cybersecurity experts said the hacker or hackers appeared to have taken considerable effort to collect and spread the looted information across different servers in an attempt to make tracing them and taking down the data more difficult.Angela Merkel’s government vowed a thorough investigation. “The German government takes this incident very seriously,” said Martina Fietz, a spokeswoman for the chancellor.As the country’s main cybersecurity defense team called a crisis meeting to coordinate with domestic and foreign intelligence agencies early Friday, Twitter took down the accounts used by a hacker calling himself GOd that had been broadcasting links to the information since early last month.The hacker released the information through links published on Twitter in the form of an Advent calendar, where a window is opened every day leading up to Christmas, revealing a picture or treat.“The first window is for a very special beloved moderator who everyone knows,” read the entry for Dec. 1, which included links to private information from the comedian Jan Böhmermann, who several months ago had started an initiative to discredit a group of far-right internet trolls.Starting on Dec. 20, Germany’s established political parties appeared, beginning with the Free Democrats and followed by the Left, the Greens and Social Democrats.Dec. 24 — the final day in the calendar — was reserved for the conservative Christian Democrats and Christian Social Union. The published link led to servers hosting lists of personal information ranging from internal party documents to screen shots of private chat exchanges to images of a personal ID card, front and back.Only the main opposition force in Parliament, the far-right Alternative for Germany, or AfD, was excluded. Stephan Brandner, a member of Parliament with the party responsible for justice affairs, condemned the hack. “Protection of private data goes for everyone, including politicians, regardless of which party they belong to,” he said.Germans prize personal privacy — a legacy of abuses by the Nazi- and Communist-era secret police — and the country has long had some of the world’s strictest laws protecting personal information. Germany was the first country to force Google to allow individuals to blur images of their homes on its Street View mapping service, following outrage over the amount of data the company was collecting.But German defenses have not caught up to German fears, rendering the country exceedingly vulnerable to attacks.Although the Twitter accounts used for disseminating the information were taken down early Friday, several hours later, many of the servers hosting the information remained accessible.Lukasz Olejnik, an independent cybersecurity and privacy adviser, said the attack showed deliberate planning. Dispersing the content among servers across the internet made it more likely the information would remain accessible even after Twitter shut down the account that initially published the links, he said.“The attacker’s intent is not clear at this moment but it is clear that a considerable effort was put in,” said Mr. Olejnik, who is also a research associate at the Center for Technology and Global Affairs at Oxford University. “It was work intensive.”Germany’s cybersecurity office said it was investigating whether the data was harvested in a central attack, a series of separate ones originating from different services, or in private communications.“At this time, there is no indication that the government network was breached,” the office, known by its German initials B.S.I., said in a statement.Beyond Germany, the hacking adds to concerns about the security of European parliamentary elections in May, which many officials fear are vulnerable to digital interference and disinformation campaigns by hackers or state-backed groups. Last month, European Union officials announced a plan to better coordinate responses to false messages around the elections.Leading members of the Greens and the Social Democrats said they filed criminal charges against unknown individuals for illegally publishing their personal data. A spokesman for the Left party confirmed that the information of some of its members had been exposed, including that of Dietmar Bartsch, the leader of its caucus in the lower house of Parliament.Mr. Böhmermann, the first person targeted in the leak, tried several months ago to organize opposition to the far-right group Reconquista Germanica, which spreads disinformation and harasses, provokes and belittles opponents.The data, which included Mr. Böhmermann’s phone numbers, personal chats and photographs of his two young sons, was advertised as, “Nice things that you can have fun with.”Germany’s main government network was breached by hackers in 2015, and the authorities worried that information obtained then would be used against politicians leading up to the 2017 election. Those fears were largely unfounded.Hackers appeared to have again penetrated the German government’s main data network last March — a system that was supposed to be particularly secure and is used by the chancellor’s office, ministries and Parliament.Luca Hammer, an independent German social media analyst who studies activity on Twitter, said that because no right-wing troll chat groups had picked up the leak, the hacker may have been a single individual.“They had to get into a popular Twitter account to get noticed,” he said over Twitter. “Therefore I assume they acted alone. But I don’t know.”The attack prompted warnings in German media about the need for greater vigilance by the government and of how individuals can better protect themselves online.A commentary in Süddeutsche Zeitung drew a parallel between the cyberattack and terrorism. “Even if in this case nobody has been injured or killed,” the aim of the hack was to trigger “a diffuse fear” in German society at large.“The question of whether public spaces are safe for the individual turns out to be the same for Facebook and the Outlook mailbox as it is for soccer stadiums and the Oktoberfest,” the paper wrote.Adam Satariano contributed reporting from London.Follow Melissa Eddy on Twitter: @meddynyt.

Supported byBy Nicole PerlrothSAN FRANCISCO — The Democratic National Committee believes it was targeted in a hacking attempt by a Russian group in the weeks after the midterm elections last year, according to court documents filed late Thursday.On Nov. 14, the documents say, dozens of D.N.C. email addresses were on the receiving end of a so-called spearphishing campaign by one of two Russian organizations believed to be responsible for hacking into the committee’s computers during the 2016 presidential race. There is no evidence that the most recent attack was successful.The documents, filed in federal court in New York, were part of an amended complaint in a lawsuit filed in April that claimed the committee was the victim of a conspiracy by Russian intelligence agents, President Trump’s 2016 campaign and WikiLeaks to damage Hillary Clinton’s presidential run.The new court filings say the time stamps and contents of the spearphishing emails received in November were consistent with separate cyberattacks around the same time tied to the Russian hacking group known as Cozy Bear, one of the two Russian groups suspected of breaching D.N.C. computers in 2016.Security researchers believe the hacking attempt against the D.N.C. in November was part of a broader campaign that used decoy emails that appeared to come from the State Department.That campaign had more than a dozen targets, including government agencies, think tanks, law enforcement officials, journalists, military personnel, defense contractors, pharmaceutical companies and transportation officials, according to a report by the cybersecurity firm FireEye. Researchers believe the goal was to ferret out American foreign policy, particularly related to Africa; Democratic policy positions; and the platforms of 2020 Democratic presidential hopefuls.FireEye said the attempted hacking of the D.N.C. in November resembled other recent attacks attributed to Cozy Bear, including in its “deliberate reuse” of old phishing tactics and reliance on a similar list of victims. But there were a few new wrinkles, including new decoy email addresses and different obfuscation techniques.The hackers sent some targets of the broader campaign three phishing emails at most. In other instances, they were more aggressive, sending as many as 136 emails to a single organization. In some cases, the malware-laced emails were successful. And once they gained access to a computer network, it was only a matter of hours before they were deploying stealthier hacking tools.The attackers in November compromised a hospital email server to launch their phishing emails, a common tactic of the Cozy Bear group, said Nick Carr, a senior manager at FireEye.Cozy Bear hackers are skilled at rummaging through a network without drawing attention, said Matthew Dunwoody, a FireEye security researcher. Once in, they often swap out their phishing tools for malware that can be hard to detect, he said.FireEye said that although Cozy Bear was the likeliest culprit, the firm could not firmly establish who was responsible for the 2018 campaign against the D.N.C. and other targets. CrowdStrike, another cybersecurity firm, also noted an uptick in hacking activity in November, but it could not say definitively that Cozy Bear was to blame.Cozy Bear, also known by security firms as APT 29 or the Dukes, was one of two Russian groups involved in the 2016 hacking of the D.N.C. It has not attracted the same scrutiny as the other group, Fancy Bear, or APT 28, which has been linked to a string of cyberattacks against the D.N.C., the International Olympic Committee and other international organizations.Cozy Bear has been active since 2016, security researchers say, and has been linked to a coordinated wave of hacking attacks on Democratic Party officials.The D.N.C. says in the amended complaint that the November campaign was consistent with a continuing push by Russian hackers to target Democratic candidates and party leaders. In 2017, Russian hackers are believed to have attempted a hack of the computer network of former Senator Claire McCaskill of Missouri and the networks of at least two other candidates in the midterm elections.Mr. Trump has long denied any collusion with Russia, and in December several defendants named in the D.N.C.’s lawsuit argued that it should be dismissed because the committee was using it to try to “explain away” the Democratic “candidate’s defeat in the 2016 presidential campaign.”On Friday, Geoffrey A. Graber, a D.N.C. lawyer, said the committee expected defendants named in the case to file another motion for dismissal soon.The Russian government has consistently denied hacking the D.N.C. In a “statement of immunity” from Russia’s Ministry of Justice, Russian authorities argued that even if it were responsible for the hacking, such a “sovereign act” would be considered a “military action” protected by a 1976 law that offers some immunity from lawsuits regarding foreign governments’ actions in the United States.Follow Nicole Perlroth on Twitter: @nicoleperlroth.Sheera Frenkel contributed reporting.

Supported byNonfictionWhen you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.By Matt ApuzzoBREAKING AND ENTERING The Extraordinary Story of a Hacker Called Alien By Jeremy N. Smith 292 pp. Houghton Mifflin Harcourt. $28.When the F.B.I. warned the Democratic National Committee that hackers had broken into its system before the 2016 elections, the help desk dismissed it as a potential prank call. And when the Russians used a phony Google alert to try to snatch the email password from Hillary Clinton’s campaign chairman, the I.T. guy incorrectly said the warning was legitimate.In “Breaking and Entering: The Extraordinary Story of a Hacker Called ‘Alien,’” Jeremy N. Smith tells a tale of computer intrigue, but not through the eyes of the black hats whose misdeeds have dominated recent political news. Instead, Smith wants you to meet the people behind the help desk — the tech gurus and security consultants standing between us and digital carnage.With his 1989 best seller “The Cuckoo’s Egg,” the author Clifford Stoll demonstrated that the lowly computer technician can make a wonderful hero. He described tracking Russian spies across networks and solving an espionage mystery of the early internet era. Without such a singular case to crack, however, Smith must rely on the career trajectory of a cybersecurity expert to propel the story.That’s a lot to ask. When someone from your I.T. department sends an email telling you to change your password, does anyone stop and think, “I bet that guy has an interesting story!” Smith addresses this problem head-on, making clear at the onset that we are not talking about just any computer geek. We meet our leather-clad hero — a woman nicknamed Alien who runs a boutique cybersecurity firm — as she swaggers through a Las Vegas hacking conference. And Smith poses the story’s central question: How did she get to be such a badass?Despite the book’s subtitle, however, the answer turns out to be more predictable than extraordinary. Alien studied computer science at M.I.T. and parlayed a connection there into a job at Los Alamos National Laboratory, which launched her into the information security world.Further complicating things, Smith gives every character and company a pseudonym and changes the locations of key events. We are told this is to protect their privacy, but the effect is that Alien, on whom so much is riding, feels distant. This distance is compounded by the fact that “Breaking and Entering” includes long stretches of dialogue and precise details from decades-old events. When you never quite know how much about a character is fictionalized, such precision can make the scenes feel reimagined.Smith’s writing style, though, is crisp as he charts the course of Alien’s life in a series of vignettes, from uncertain undergraduate to successful business owner. The structure works because Smith is a lively storyteller. We are in capable hands as Alien tests corporate security by crafting phishing emails and schmoozing her way into executive suites to steal computers.But the format is also restrictive. Alien came of age during the birth of the modern information security age, and at times I wished we could have stepped back a bit from her story to see the bigger picture. Instead, tethered to Alien, we can see only as far as she can in the moment.For instance, Alien experiences several gut-punch reminders that she is a woman in a male-dominated industry. She is saddled with administrative tasks. A male peer introduces her as a “junior consultant.” And a roomful of men eye her with curiosity at a conference. These moments cry out for a pause, some context, a bit of reflection on the security industry in the #MeToo moment. But instead we are whisked off to the next vignette.The story offers just enough technological details to establish its bona fides without slowing its pace. It is a difficult balance. Alien’s social-engineering techniques have been detailed in books by and about the hacker Kevin Mitnick and elsewhere, and will come as no surprise to tech-savvy or security-conscious readers. More casual readers will get an introduction to that world, but not a guide to help them understand it.Which is a shame, since the real Alien — she is easily identifiable if one is so inclined — has a well-earned reputation as an expert in her field. Her work is taught at universities, bar associations and the world’s top conferences. She is, as Smith set out to show, a security badass. Yet we hear very little from her in the present. The focus on how she got there is interesting, and at times quite fun, but it comes at the expense of the wisdom she acquired on the journey.If there’s one lesson to be learned from Alien’s story, it is this: As Russian hackers challenge democracies and criminal attacks turn our personal data into commodities, we cannot turn to technology to save us. Security is only as strong as the employee who tapes his passwords to his cubicle, the overworked guard at the front desk and, yes, the person on the other end of the line when you call the help desk.Matt Apuzzo, an international investigative correspondent for The Times, is the co-author of “Enemies Within: Inside the NYPD’s Secret Spying Unit and Bin Laden’s Final Plot Against America.”

Supported byBy Adam Satariano and Raymond ZhongLONDON — When new employees join Huawei, they are given books about the Chinese telecommunications company’s achievements. One featured accomplishment is how the company has thrived in Europe.A chapter in one of the books describes the hard work of Huawei employees to win over European telecom providers and sell them equipment that forms the backbone of mobile wireless networks. It says little about how the company has also subtly lobbied, promised jobs and made research investments to ingratiate itself with European governments over the last 15 years.In Britain, for example, Huawei set up a special corporate board, led by John Browne, a former chief executive of the oil giant BP. It donated to schools, including Cambridge University; held parties for political leaders; and sponsored prominent charities like the Prince’s Trust, founded by Prince Charles. In Germany, Huawei opened facilities to conduct research on new innovations and sponsored events, including the recent convention of Germany’s governing Christian Democratic Union party.European governments have been welcoming. Last year, after Huawei announced a five-year commitment to spend 3 billion pounds, or about $3.8 billion, to expand in Britain, where the company employs 1,500 workers, Prime Minister Theresa May met in Beijing with Sun Yafang, Huawei’s chairwoman. Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany posed for pictures at the company’s booth at a trade show last year.Yet despite the careful cultivation, Huawei’s position in Europe is now at risk of unraveling. The United States has moved to restrict the use of Chinese technology because of concerns that it is being used for espionage. Last month, the American authorities asked Canada to detain a Huawei executive, who is the daughter of the company’s founder, on charges of committing bank fraud to help the company’s business in Iran. And federal prosecutors in Seattle are also investigating Huawei for intellectual property theft.[Read More: The United States plans to formally make its extradition request within a week.]The fallout is growing across Europe, which has become Huawei’s biggest market outside China, foreshadowing what the company faces in the rest of the world. This month, one of its employees was arrested in Poland and charged with espionage.Officials in Germany, France and the Czech Republic are now among those considering restricting Huawei from the next-generation wireless networks, known as 5G. The head of Britain’s intelligence service, MI6, has raised alarms about using Chinese networking technology. European carriers, including Deutsche Telekom, are reassessing their use of Huawei. And on Thursday, Oxford University announced that it would suspend donations and scholarships from Huawei.“Until there were red flags on security risks, it was smooth sailing for them in Europe,” Thorsten Benner, a founder and director of the Global Public Policy Institute, a policy think tank in Berlin, said of Huawei. “The movement that you’ve seen over the past three months is all in one direction: to find regulatory measures to curtail the use of Chinese equipment in Europe.”Heli Tiirmaa-Klaar, an Estonian diplomat involved in cybersecurity discussions with American and European officials about Huawei, said Europe was shifting on Huawei because of suspicions about China rather than specific actions by the company. She highlighted China’s history of hacking and stealing trade secrets, its poor record on human rights and internet censorship, and Chinese cybersecurity rules that could require network operators to defend national security interests.“The Chinese are increasingly departing from the common vision that we’ve had at the U.N. level about what are cybernorms and how we follow international law in cyberspace,” she said. “They have no willingness to play along in this space.”Huawei (pronounced “HWA-way”) has steadfastly denied wrongdoing. In a statement, the company said it had “established strong relations with customers, suppliers and governments across Europe, where cybersecurity has been our top priority.” It added that its growth in Europe was the result of its strong track record, not lobbying. Interacting with government officials is common among large corporations, Huawei said.For European countries, disentangling from Huawei won’t be easy. Its equipment is a crucial part of wireless infrastructure in Europe, and the company has spent hundreds of millions of dollars on 5G research, opening testing hubs in Britain, Germany and Poland. The company has said countries that ban Huawei, like the United States, risk delaying construction of the new hyperfast network.Huawei, based in Shenzhen, China, entered Europe in 2001 but struggled to gain a foothold. It kept pushing because it wanted to expand internationally. The European market became even more important after the company was mostly shut out of the United States in 2012 over security concerns.At one point in 2004, Huawei was so eager to woo European customers that it outfitted a shipping container with its wireless equipment and parked it in front of the headquarters of phone carriers in Germany. The marketing stunt was intended to get employees of those carriers to stop and look.“A lot of them said, ‘Who are you?’” said Stefan Scheuerle, a former Huawei sales manager in Europe who is now chief revenue officer at Sensorberg, a German tech company.In a breakthrough, Huawei struck a deal to provide equipment to BT Group, the British telecom giant, in 2005. To prepare its bid for the BT project, Huawei moved about 100 Chinese workers to hastily rented apartments outside London, according to “Growing Up in a Hail of Gunfire,” a collection of essays used as training material for new hires. The employees often worked until 3 or 4 a.m., and because they didn’t have credit cards, they had to use wads of cash to buy groceries.In 2005, Huawei also secured a deal with the European carrier Vodafone to sell about $1 million of gear. Even so, Mr. Scheuerle said, he was quickly given a new goal: Sell Vodafone $1 billion of equipment within three years. Huawei soon opened an office within steps of Vodafone’s complex in Düsseldorf, Germany.“When I left less than three years later, we were at $850 million — we were almost there,” Mr. Scheuerle said.Huawei moved other employees from China to help in Europe, and hired many non-Chinese employees. It was a jarring cultural change for newcomers unfamiliar with Huawei’s blunt management style; Mr. Scheuerle said staff emails criticized people by name for unsatisfactory work.Mr. Scheuerle held workshops for new employees to help them adapt to the company. He advised them to befriend Chinese colleagues with better knowledge of what was happening at Huawei headquarters in Shenzhen.Today, 12,000 of Huawei’s 180,000 employees are in Europe, up from 7,300 in 2013. The company has vowed to hire nearly 3,000 more by next year. In 2017, it earned more than $20 billion in revenue in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, roughly a quarter of its total business.Even when American officials warned allies of Huawei’s risks, the company largely deflected the concerns. It opened a testing center where British officials inspected its products. It opened 23 research and development facilities in 14 European countries, and supported work at more than 150 universities. The company also hosts government officials and business leaders from Europe at its Shenzhen headquarters.In 2011, Huawei created the board to oversee operations in Britain. In reality, the group has a limited view of Huawei’s inner workings and few responsibilities beyond quarterly meetings and attending some corporate events such as annual summer and winter parties, two people familiar with its activities said.Huawei said the board had legal responsibilities of directors overseeing compliance with laws, health and safety, and potential abuses of power.Now, as criticism mounts, Huawei is meeting with customers and government officials to assuage concerns. This includes allowing German officials to inspect its engineering and code.Next month at the mobile tech conference MWC Barcelona, formerly the Mobile World Congress, Huawei plans to announce new handsets and provide an update of its 5G plans. A new advertising campaign is also in the works, the company said.Follow Adam Satariano and Raymond Zhong on Twitter: @satariano and @zhonggg.Adam Satariano reported from London, and Raymond Zhong from Hong Kong.U.S. Seeks ExtraditionCanada’s arrest of Meng Wanzhou of Huawei has set off a diplomatic crisis with China. Page B4.

Supported byBy Nellie BowlesSYDNEY, Australia — A new law in Australia gives law enforcement authorities the power to compel tech-industry giants like Apple to create tools that would circumvent the encryption built into their products.The law, the Telecommunications and Other Legislation Amendment (Assistance and Access) Act 2018, applies only to tech products used or sold in Australia. But its impact could be global: If Apple were to build a so-called back door for iPhones sold in Australia, the authorities in other countries, including the United States, could force the company to use that same tool to assist their investigations.The Australian law went into effect last month. It is one of the most assertive efforts by lawmakers to rein in tech companies, which have argued for decades that unbreakable encryption is an imperative part of protecting the private communications of their customers.In recent years, law enforcement officials have complained that tough encryption has made it impossible for them to gain access to the online discussions of crime suspects, particularly in time-sensitive terror investigations.The tension between tech and law enforcement came to a head about four years ago when Apple resisted a federal request to help investigators gain access to a locked iPhone that had belonged to a man who took part in a shooting that killed 14 people in San Bernardino, Calif.The Federal Bureau of Investigation eventually found a way around the iPhone’s security without Apple’s help. But if Apple had already created a workaround — a back door, in industry terms — to sell phones in Australia, the American authorities could have simply ordered Apple to use the tool.“This may be an encryption back door for the U.S.,” said Sharon Bradford Franklin, director of surveillance and cybersecurity policy for the New America think tank’s Open Technology Institute. “A back door to an encryption back door.”The Australian law has limited oversight mechanisms. A notice sent to a company must be “reasonable and proportionate,” and the authorities must have a warrant to gain access to a phone or service. But the agency issuing the notice decides what is reasonable.There is an appeals process if a company is asked to build a new interception capability. A firm can ask an independent assessment panel consisting of a technical expert and a former judicial officer to review the notice.The law says the Australian authorities cannot ask a company to build universal decryption capabilities or introduce systemwide weaknesses. But security experts and tech companies like Apple said that did not reflect what they would have to do to comply with an order. It is impossible, for example, to create a workaround for one iPhone’s encryption without potentially introducing something that could work for all of them, they said.“All of Australian technology is tarnished by it,” said Mike Cannon-Brookes, one of the founders of Atlassian, a business software company that is among Australia’s biggest tech companies.Australia is a member of the so-called Five Eyes intelligence alliance, and it is not the only country in the alliance with a law like this. Britain passed the Investigatory Powers Act in 2016. For British law enforcement to gain access to data, it must first ask a judicial approver.“We’re not the first,” said Michelle Price, chief executive of the nonprofit Australian Cyber Security Growth Network. “But Australia’s version has gone much further.”Apple officials called the law “dangerously ambiguous” and “alarming.”“Encryption is simply math,” Apple wrote in a statement submitted to the Australian Parliament’s Joint Committee on Intelligence and Security on Oct. 12. “Any process that weakens the mathematical models that protect user data for anyone will by extension weaken the protections for everyone.”But politicians said the risk of encryption technology’s being used by terrorists was too significant. Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull of Australia said in July, “The laws of mathematics are very commendable, but the only law that applies in Australia is the law of Australia.”Technology companies in the United States have argued that they cannot be compelled to create tools for breaking the encryption in their products because computer code is a kind of free speech protected under the First Amendment. But building tools to satisfy the Australian authorities would essentially make that argument moot. Countries around the world could demand access to the tool.Apple is hardly the only tech company that could feel the impact of the Australian law. Anyone with a website is considered a communications provider, subject to the law. Any company that “provides an electronic service that has one or more end-users in Australia” is required to comply.A long list of companies meets that description, such as smartphone makers and Facebook and its WhatsApp messaging service.“Once WhatsApp, for example, builds a system at the behest of the Australians, everyone gets to use it,” said Nate Cardozo, the senior information security counsel on the Electronic Frontier Foundation’s legal team, who has studied the new law.The law allows government agencies like the Australian Secret Intelligence Service or the Australian Federal Police to compel tech companies to install software on a user’s device to get around encryption. It can also compel the company not to alert the user.“So if WhatsApp gets one of these notices and does not comply, they’re subject to asset seizure and even hypothetically having executives hauled into jail for contempt if they refuse to do so,” Mr. Cardozo said.There is confusion about other secrecy requirements of the law. For example, would it require employees who received requests to keep them secret from their employers? The Australian Department of Home Affairs, which coordinates strategy and leadership of the country’s national security policy, says it would not. But security experts at the Electronic Frontier Foundation and at companies like the password manager 1Password say it is actually unclear.Australia does not have a strong tech industry, but it is growing, with investors and start-ups and a few established companies. And in the tightknit tech community that does exist, the new law has been a gut punch.“We never thought it would pass,” said Alan Jones, chief executive of M8 Ventures, a tech investment firm in Sydney. “We all just figured that Australia’s political leaders would consider the expert advice that told them this was nuts.”Sarah Moran, the chief executive of Girl Geek Academy, which teaches young women to code, said she had planned to begin tech start-ups in Australia until the law passed.“I was looking to found two tech companies, but why would you build tech here now?” she asked. “I don’t think the government understands how drastically it impacts not just the tech that’s built here but also the enthusiasm and entrepreneurial investment that Australians will be willing to make.”Ms. Moran, who is based in Melbourne, said she was questioning even the program she currently runs. “Why would I tell young girls to go build tech here if there’s not going to be any tech industry?” she asked.Casey Ellis, 37, was raised in Sydney but lives in San Francisco, where he runs a cybersecurity firm called Bugcrowd. He has already heard about companies that have become wary of hiring Australian firms, he said.“People are factoring it in as a risk when you’re looking at hiring an Australian now,” Mr. Ellis said. “It’s causing a chilling effect around Australian companies.”Follow Nellie Bowles on Twitter: @NellieBowles.Paul Mozur contributed reporting from Hong Kong.Want more Australia coverage and discussion? Sign up for the weekly Australia Letter, start your day with your local Morning Briefing and join us in our Facebook group.

Supported byThe online security “best practice” is still vulnerable to phishing attacks.By Josephine WolffMs. Wolff is an assistant professor at the Rochester Institute of Technology.Here’s how two-factor authentication is supposed to work: You log in to your bank account or email inbox, and after correctly entering your password, you are prompted to confirm the login through an app on your cellphone, a one-time code sent to you via text message or email, a physical YubiKey device or even a phone call. That app, text message, email, YubiKey or phone call is your “second factor,” intended to ensure that even if the person trying to log in isn’t really you, he or she still can’t gain access to your accounts without access to your phone or YubiKey.You might find two-factor authentication mildly irritating, and there’s a chance you might not even notice the extra step in the login process anymore. Regardless, you probably feel a certain comfort in the idea that at least your money or your inbox is well protected. But like so many other commonly accepted best practices in computer security, we actually know very little about how well two-factor authentication works.In December, Amnesty International released a report describing an easy-to-apply technique being used to compromise accounts protected by two-factor authentication. The hackers whom Amnesty International investigated, who were targeting accounts belonging to individuals in the Middle East and North Africa, set up phishing pages that captured not only users’ passwords but also the one-time authentication codes generated by their two-factor services.Setting up phishing websites that look like the login pages for well-known web services is a common way to steal passwords online. Here’s the way it works: Someone designs a website that looks almost exactly like Bank of America’s website and then emails you a message, purporting to be from Bank of America, warning you that your account is about to expire, or your information needs to be updated, and directing you to a fake site where you believe you’re logging into your bank account but instead are just typing your password into a website owned by scammers.This type of phishing is precisely the kind of threat that two-factor authentication is supposed to protect you against. Unlike so-called dictionary attacks — in which hackers try to guess your password by running through a dictionary of possible choices — forcing people to develop more complicated or longer passwords (a minimum of eight characters with uppercase and lowercase letters, and at least one symbol and one number) does not help at all when someone steals your password via phishing. So the password-complexity requirements that have reigned as a common (and irritating) best practice in every workplace for years are increasingly supplemented by two-factor authentication, to protect you against both dictionary attacks and phishing attacks.But it turns out that the one-time codes generated by people’s smartphones or sent via text message and email can also be phished. If you’re the hacker, all it takes is adding a component to your fake Bank of America website so that after you prompt someone for his password, you try to log in to his real Bank of America account using the password he has just provided, triggering a second-factor alert that doesn’t alarm him because he thinks he’s signing into Bank of America too. Then, on your fake phishing site, you prompt him to enter his second-factor code and use it to complete the login.The activity in Amnesty International’s report is not even the first time that two-factor authentication has been compromised in that manner. In 2014, an F.B.I. special agent, Elliott Peterson, described how malware distributed by the botnet GameOver Zeus could compromise two-factor authentication protecting bank accounts in the same way.The fact that two-factor authentication can be compromised through fairly straightforward, widely used tactics is no reason to stop using it. After all, no security tool is perfect. As long as it significantly decreases the likelihood of account compromises, two-factor authentication is still worth using. But we don’t know a lot about how much two-factor authentication actually helps protect your accounts.Google has offered its optional two-step verification system to Gmail users since 2011 but has never released any data about its effectiveness at driving down account compromises. In fact, last year Google switched all of its employees from using the Google Authenticator app for two-factor authentication to physical security-key devices that need to be inserted into a computer port to complete a login. Since making that switch, Google announced last July, none of its employee accounts have been compromised. The announcement seems to imply that the security provided through the app was not regarded as sufficient by the company for its internal accounts, even though it is what many Google users rely on. Should we all be using physical security keys? How much less effective is the Google Authenticator app? We still don’t know (though presumably, Google does).In the absence of any empirical evidence about how well two-factor authentication works, organizations have been rushing to institute it in recent years for fear of falling behind their peers. Even the federal government started rolling out two-factor authentication late last year to federal and state employees. The two-factor provider Duo Security saw its annual recurring revenue pass the $100 million mark in 2017, after increasing 135 percent in 2016. Last year Cisco purchased Duo for $2.35 billion, indicating just how valuable and ubiquitous this technology has become.The rapid rise of two-factor authentication is not a bad thing. In fact, it’s probably a good thing, but we can’t know that for sure until we learn something about how well it’s working. It makes logical sense that requiring more pieces of information to log in to an account would serve to better protect that account, but relying on common-sense justifications for computer security has misled us before. For instance, many companies require employees to change their passwords every year or every 90 days. For years, this has been commonly accepted as a best practice for security based on the idea that it makes it more difficult for hackers to use old, stolen passwords. But in fact, those mandatory password changes might sometimes do more harm than good unless the password has been compromised.Many computer security practices are propagated through misguided notions of “best practices” that businesses decide to adopt because they see everyone around them doing something and assume it must be the right choice. But just copying what everyone else is doing and calling it best practice does not actually help strengthen the security of our accounts or data. To do that, we need to be able to measure the impact of these practices using concrete data about whether they reduce instances of account compromises or stolen funds or intellectual property theft. We need the companies that operate and implement these security practices to track those metrics and be willing to release them, even when that data may not paint them in the best — or most secure — light. Otherwise, we’re left blindly adhering to supposed best practices without knowing what really works for cybersecurity.Josephine Wolff (@josephinecwolff) is an assistant professor at the Rochester Institute of Technology and the author of “You’ll See This Message When It Is Too Late: The Legal and Economic Aftermath of Cybersecurity Breaches.”Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported byArticle of the DayBy Natalie ProulxBefore reading the article: In the article you are about to read, the Trump administration contends that the United States and China are in an “arms race” to control fifth-generation cellular networks — known as 5G. What do you know about 5G?For some context, here is the opening to “What Is 5G? Here’s What You Need to Know About the New Network.” Don Clark writes:In 2019, a big technology shift will finally begin. It’s a once-in-a-decade upgrade to our wireless systems that will start reaching mobile phone users in a matter of months.But this is not just about faster smartphones. The transition to new fifth-generation cellular networks — known as 5G for short — will also affect many other kinds of devices, including industrial robots, security cameras, drones and cars that send traffic data to one another. This new era will leap ahead of current wireless technology, known as 4G, by offering mobile internet speeds that will let people download entire movies within seconds and most likely bring big changes to video games, sports and shopping.Officials in the United States and China see 5G networks as a competitive edge. The faster networks could help spread the use of artificial intelligence and other cutting-edge technologies.— Based on this information and your own knowledge, why might the United States be in a “race” with China to dominate 5G networks?— Make some predictions: What might the world look like if the United States controlled this new technology? What would it look like if China did?Now, read just the first section of the article, “In 5G Race With China, U.S. Pushes Allies to Fight Huawei” (stop when you get to “A New Red Scare?”), and answer the following questions: 1. What are some of the ways the Trump administration is trying to prevent Huawei, China’s leading telecommunications producer, from building its 5G network?2. The administration contends that the world is engaged in a new “arms race.” What does it mean by that?3. Why does the author write that the transition to 5G will be “revolutionary”?4. The author states that what is good for consumers is also good for intelligence services and cyberattackers. In what ways will 5G be especially vulnerable to cyberattack?5. Why has the United States always been nervous about Chinese technology? Why has this fear grown more urgent with the advent of 5G?6. What is the relationship between the Chinese government and independent companies like Huawei? Why is the Trump administration wary of this relationship?7. Why does the Trump administration want to prevent Huawei from building its 5G network? Give at least two reasons.Finally, tell us more about what you think:The first section of this article explains why the Trump administration views China and Huawei as cybersecurity threats to the United States.Choose one or more additional sections of the article to read: “A New Red Scare?”; “Growing Suspicions”; “The Rise of Huawei”; or “A Global Campaign.”Then, answer the following questions:— What did you learn from this section?— Given what you have read, does Huawei seem to pose a threat to the United States?— Do you think American allies should join the Trump administration in barring Huawei from building its 5G network? Why or why not?

Supported byBy Eric Schmitt, David E. Sanger and Glenn ThrushWASHINGTON — President Trump has repeatedly warned that terrorists are pouring into the United States from Mexico, in one of his central justifications for building a border wall.But his own government’s assessments conclude that Mr. Trump has seriously overstated the threat. And counterterrorism officials and experts said there had never been a case of a known terrorist sneaking into the country through open areas of the southwest border.Despite the administration’s focus on security threats at the border, a White House strategy document sent to Congress last month outlining steps needed to monitor and intercept terrorists included no reference to the need for construction of barriers, fences or walls. Separately, an intelligence analysis concluded that cyberattacks are the top threat to the United States — not terrorists at the border.“There is no wave of terrorist operatives waiting to cross overland into the United States,” Nicholas J. Rasmussen, the former director of the National Counterterrorism Center, said on Tuesday. “It simply isn’t true.”In a rare prime-time address to the nation, broadcast at 9 p.m. on Tuesday, Mr. Trump was expected to describe a national security crisis brewing at the Mexican border. It was his opportunity to directly defend his demands for $5.7 billion for a border wall — funding that congressional Democrats have refused to provide, fueling the 18-day government shutdown.Many Latin American countries have border law enforcement gaps — limited law enforcement capabilities and established smuggling routes — that extremists could exploit to harm the United States, according to the State Department’s latest Country Reports on Terrorism.But, the report concluded, that has not happened.“These vulnerabilities offer opportunities to foreign terrorist groups, but there have been no cases of terrorist groups exploiting these gaps to move operations through the region,” the report said.The latest ranking of urgent national security vulnerabilities, compiled annually by American intelligence agencies, puts the terrorist threat from the southwest border low on the list and then mentions it in a discussion of how “worldwide production of cocaine, heroin and methamphetamine is at record levels.”Over the last several days, White House and Department of Homeland Security officials have relentlessly pushed the case that the situation at the border is both a national security crisis and a humanitarian one.Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said on Sunday that “nearly 4,000 known or suspected terrorists come into our country illegally,” and added that the “most vulnerable point of entry is at our southern border.”A day later, Kellyanne Conway, the White House counselor, called those comments “an unfortunate misstatement.”At the same time, in a memo sent to journalists late Monday, Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, cited “more than 3,000 ‘special-interest aliens’ — individuals with suspicious travel patterns” who posed a potential national security risk.“The threat is real,” she wrote in a series of tweets on Monday afternoon. “The number of terror-watchlisted encountered at our Southern Border has increased over the last two years. The exact number is sensitive and details about these cases are extremely sensitive.”Former national security officials and analysts have pushed back — especially on the notion that terrorism suspects or their sympathizers use the southwest border as a door to the United States.“That 4,000 number was bull,” said W. Ralph Basham, who served as commissioner of United States Customs and Border Protection from 2006 to 2009, during the Bush administration.“The idea that you have that many terrorists flooding across the border when you have all of these dedicated agents focused on stopping that kind of activity is ridiculous,” Mr. Basham said.A senior American counterterrorism official said on Tuesday night that an annual average of three known or suspected terrorists — all of whom were on watch lists — had tried to enter the United States at a legal border crossing or entry point over the last several years, and had been denied.A 22-page National Strategy to Combat Terrorism Travel, overseen by the staff of the National Security Council and under Mr. Trump’s signature, cited a broad commitment to making it “more difficult for terrorists to cross U.S. borders.”Sent to Congress on Dec. 21, the day before the government shutdown began, the document urged data sharing and improved coordination with foreign partners to identify terrorists before they travel. It did not urge the construction of a border wall.The only explicit reference to “border security” in the document, which was obtained on Tuesday by The New York Times, is a listing of executive orders that Mr. Trump has already signed. It also included strategies to “interdict” potential terrorists with plans to “maintain the equipment and technology” necessary to stop bad actors and share real-time information between law enforcement agencies.The 2018 assessment by the Office of the Director of National Intelligence ranked cyberattacks against utilities, communications systems and markets as the top threat to the United States. Published annually by American intelligence agencies, the ranking has not changed much over the past five years.But the government shutdown has furloughed nearly half of the work force of the Department of Homeland Security’s new Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, which is advertised as the first line of defense against network attacks. Mr. Trump has also dismantled the office of the White House cybersecurity coordinator, the job that was supposed to sew together offense and defense against the daily barrage of cyberattacks.After cyberattacks, the top threats to the United States include the rise of smaller, more deadly nuclear and biological weapons; terrorist attacks by the Islamic State and Al Qaeda; and Russian-style influence campaigns and threats to the United States’ space assets.Counterterrorism officials have long discounted the threat of Islamic State or Qaeda terrorists entering through the southwest border. In some cases, the opposite has happened, said Seamus Hughes, the deputy director of George Washington University’s program on extremism, citing homegrown American extremists who crossed into Mexico to avoid being detected on no-fly lists.Officials included the case of Jason Ludke of Milwaukee, who pleaded guilty in October to conspiring to provide material support to the Islamic State. He and a co-conspirator were headed to the border in Texas, with plans to join the Islamic State in Syria or Iraq, when they were arrested.According to the plea agreement, Mr. Ludke had planned to work under the Islamic State’s direction and control and recorded a video of himself pledging his allegiance to the terrorist group’s leader, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi. Mr. Ludke told an undercover F.B.I. agent that he had training in jujitsu and computers, which he believed would benefit the Islamic State.Even as Mr. Trump has lobbied for the wall, he has also pressed the Pentagon and the Department of Homeland Security to immediately tighten security on the border.On Dec. 27, homeland security officials asked for assistance that the Pentagon later estimated would require 3,000 additional military personnel to be sent to the border, according to memos exchanged by the two departments over the last two weeks. The force could include a combination of National Guard troops, active-duty military personnel and volunteers, but that was not made clear in the documents, officials said. It remains an issue of hot debate inside the Pentagon.The Homeland Security Department also requested 146 mobile surveillance vehicles to be sent to four border states, along with enough personnel and material to install 150 additional miles of barbed concertina wire. The homeland security memo also again asked Defense Department officials to provide additional aviation support to monitor and control the flow of immigrants.The Pentagon has not yet approved the request. It included guidelines for Ms. Nielsen and other homeland security officials to “take the lead” on strategic communications intended to highlight the Pentagon’s role. It also made clear the troops would carry no weapons.Thomas Gibbons-Neff contributed reporting.

Supported byBy Adam Satariano and Joanna BerendtLONDON — The Polish authorities arrested two people, including a Chinese employee of the telecommunications giant Huawei, and charged them with spying for Beijing, officials said on Friday, as the United States and its allies move to restrict the use of Chinese technology because of concerns that it is being used for espionage.The arrest of the Huawei employee is almost certain to escalate tensions between Western countries and China over the company, which the authorities in the United States have accused of acting as an arm of the Chinese government and making equipment designed for spying.In December, the daughter of Huawei’s founder was arrested in Canada at the request of the United States, which said she had committed fraud as part of a scheme to violate American sanctions against companies doing business with Iran. It was unclear whether the arrests in Poland had been requested by the United States. But a senior Western diplomat who was briefed on them said the Justice Department had been working with the Polish government.Europe is increasingly a battleground in the fight over Huawei, the world’s second-largest smartphone maker and a top supplier of networking equipment. The company’s sales in the region have been growing, but many countries there now face pressure to reconsider its presence, particularly as construction begins for the next-generation wireless networks known as 5G. Germany, Britain, the Czech Republic and Norway are among the nations that have recently questioned how deeply Huawei should be involved in developing 5G infrastructure.Many of the countries adopting this stance are allies of the United States. Poland, specifically, is regarded by the State Department as “one of the United States’ strongest partners” in continental Europe. And Andrus Ansip, the European Union’s vice president, said last month that countries in the region should be “worried” about Huawei and other Chinese companies because of the cybersecurity risks they pose.Other countries face the same dilemma. In December, Japan barred Huawei from obtaining government contracts, and Australia and New Zealand have taken steps to block the company from being involved in the building of 5G networks in those countries. And the Czech National Cyber and Information Security Agency recently restated its long-standing warnings about Huawei and ZTE, another Chinese telecommunications company.“Picking sides may be unavoidable,” said Lukasz Olejnik, a research associate at the Center for Technology and Global Affairs at Oxford University, which studies the impact of technology on international relations. “This is a difficult policy conundrum.”Huawei has long denied spying for the Chinese government. On Friday, a spokesman for the company said it had no comment on the arrest in Poland and insisted that it “complies with all applicable laws and regulations in the countries where it operates.”The second person arrested is an employee of the French telecommunications company Orange, which confirmed that its office had been raided and that the man’s belongings had been seized.“We are ready to cooperate with the Internal Security Agency and make any information it needs available,” the Orange spokesman, Wojciech Jabczynski, said.Hu Xijin, the editor in chief of Global Times, a state-run, nationalist newspaper in China, took a swipe at Poland on Twitter on Friday, writing: “Anything in Poland that is worthy of stealing for Huawei? Polish national security department flatters itself.”In another message, he said he had met up with a friend who works at Huawei. “He said Huawei is facing great difficulties communicating with Western public opinion,” Mr. Hu wrote. “I said Huawei has been trying to distance itself from politics, but it has grown too big that politics is coming to its door. Huawei is innocent.”The arrested Huawei employee was identified by the authorities only as Weijing W. He was involved in the company’s sales operations in the country, officials said. According to Polish television, Weijing W. graduated from Beijing Foreign Studies University with a degree in Polish studies and once worked at the Chinese Consulate in Gdansk, Poland. He began working for Huawei in 2011.The Orange employee was identified as Piotr D., a Polish citizen and former agent of Poland’s internal security service.Polish law enforcement officers raided the homes and offices of the two men on Tuesday, officials said. The authorities then had to wait two days to obtain arrest warrants, typical for Poland. Officials did not offer details on the alleged crimes, but said the men would be held for three months while the investigation continued. Both have pleaded not guilty and have refused to answer questions, the Polish state television broadcaster, TVP, reported.The senior Western diplomat briefed on the investigation, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, would not describe the level of cooperation between Poland and the United States. The official also declined to discuss specifics of the case or evidence that may have been shared with the Polish government.But the official said the threat posed by Huawei was a high priority for American officials throughout Europe.Huawei was founded in 1987 by Ren Zhengfei, a former People’s Liberation Army engineer. The company’s equipment is the backbone of mobile networks around the world, and its smartphones are popular in Europe and China. Huawei has grown into China’s largest maker of telecom equipment, generating more than $90 billion in revenue in 2017.The company has been a leading contender to design 5G networks in Europe and other parts of the world, but the security concerns of Western countries have repeatedly hampered its expansion plans. In a 2012 report, American lawmakers said Huawei and ZTE were effectively arms of the Chinese government whose equipment was being used for espionage. Security firms have reported finding software installed on Chinese-made phones that sends users’ personal data to China.For many years, the United States, where large mobile carriers such as AT&amp;T have avoided using Huawei equipment in their networks, has presented the biggest obstacles to the company.Last year, United States intelligence agencies told a Senate panel that Americans should not use Chinese telecom products, and some major American retailers have stopped selling them. The Federal Communications Commission is also considering whether to prohibit American telecom businesses from using equipment from any company deemed a national security risk, a move aimed primarily at Huawei and ZTE that would effectively shut them out of creating 5G mobile networks.Huawei has focused on Europe instead, opening several research and development hubs in the region. More than a quarter of its 2017 revenue came from Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Only the Chinese market is more important to the company.Telecommunication companies in Europe have strong relationships with Huawei. Deutsche Telekom said in December that it had begun testing a 5G network in Poland using Huawei equipment. Mr. Jabczynski, the Orange spokesman, said Huawei was the only company in Poland ready to provide equipment that met criteria set by state regulations.Huawei also has around a quarter of the market for smartphones in Poland, according to the technology research firm Canalys. That makes it the country’s second-largest phone seller after Samsung.But the challenges facing Huawei in Europe are mounting.British officials raised alarms about the company’s products last year. The Czech Republic’s cybersecurity watchdog has warned against using Huawei and ZTE products. And just this week, Tor Mikkel Wara, Norway’s justice minister, told Reuters that “we share the same concerns as the United States and Britain, and that is espionage on private and state actors in Norway.”In Poland, at least one of the country’s main mobile carriers has been edging away from the company. The carrier, Play, has long relied on the company as an equipment supplier. And China Development Bank, a state-backed lender, has helped finance Play’s buying of Huawei equipment, according to the website of Lasanoz Finance, an advisory firm that says it worked on the deal. When Play listed its shares on the Warsaw stock exchange in 2017, it said Huawei had provided a “significant portion” of the equipment on its network.But last July, as concerns about Chinese hardware grew, Play announced that it had chosen Ericsson as an additional supplier for certain components.The arrests in Poland promised to generate more concerns about the company, said David Balson, a former official in the British intelligence agency GCHQ who is now the director of intelligence at Ripjar, a threat detection company in London.“There is no good outcome whether it’s true or not true,” Mr. Balson said. “There is no good way of spinning it.”Poland and other countries that crack down on Huawei risk retaliation from China. Shortly after the Canadian authorities arrested Meng Wanzhou, the daughter of Mr. Ren, the Huawei founder, China detained two Canadian citizens last month and accused them of undermining China’s national security. China has since detained other Canadians.Ms. Meng has been freed on bail in Vancouver, British Columbia, pending a decision on whether she should be extradited to the United States. This week, the public face of Huawei in Canada, Scott Bradley, left the company.“This will definitely increase tension in Europe,” said Christian Schmidkonz, a professor of Asian-Pacific business studies at the Munich Business School.An earlier version of this article misstated David Balson’s title at Ripjar. He is the company’s director of intelligence, not its chief executive.Follow Adam Satariano and Joanna Berendt on Twitter: @satariano and @JoannaBerendt.Adam Satariano reported from London, and Joanna Berendt from Warsaw. Reporting was contributed by Raymond Zhong from Beijing, Marc Santora from Warsaw, Kate Conger from San Francisco, and Edward Wong and Julian E. Barnes from Washington.

Supported byOnly Washington and Beijing, working together, can slow climate change and the spread of nuclear weapons.By Robert E. RubinMr. Rubin was secretary of the Treasury from 1995 to 1999 and is co-chairman emeritus of the Council on Foreign Relations.In the United States, support for a cooperative relationship with China is evaporating fast. I increasingly hear frustration from business leaders about structural trade issues. The military is concerned about aggressive geopolitical moves by Beijing. And prominent voices in both political parties are striking an increasingly confrontational tone. Legitimate concerns have led to a vicious cycle, with each negative development further poisoning an already shallow well of good will. The cycle has to be reversed. In the United States, the business community, policy analysts and the media should create a climate that encourages elected officials to pursue a constructive relationship. The same is true in China, albeit in a different political system. Leaders in both countries should recognize our imperative self-interest in working together on hugely consequential transnational issues, especially two threats to life on earth as we know it: nuclear weapons and climate change.No single country can tackle these threats alone, and existing international institutions have proved inadequate. The best chance for successfully dealing with these overarching issues — as well as other transnational issues like pandemics, terrorism and cybersecurity — is for the world’s two largest national economies to catalyze global action. In a conversation I recently led at the Council on Foreign Relations, the Chinese foreign minister, Wang Yi, alluded to this, remarking that “history will remember those who took the lead in the mist.” The surest way for that to happen is to forge a constructive relationship between our two countries. Absent that, it is imperative that we put our differences aside to tackle these two existential challenges.As the two largest economies, the United States and China can set the tone for a global effort against climate change by investing in clean-energy technology, adopting strict environmental rules and encouraging their trading partners to do the same. (Of course, the current administration does not accept the reality of climate change, but future administrations will hopefully recognize the urgency of action.)Cooperation is also needed to address the spread or possible use of nuclear weapons. North Korea’s continued development of fissile materials and missiles is an apparent contravention of its recent agreement with the United States. And North Korea isn’t the only concern. Pakistan, for example, has a weak government and uncertain controls over its nuclear arsenal.The arc of human history is one of frequent conflict. Unless you believe human nature is likely to change, that suggests a serious risk that nuclear arms will be used at some point by state or nonstate actors. United States-China cooperation to limit nuclear proliferation among states, the diversion of nuclear material to terrorists and other risks would make us all safer.The most promising prospect for tackling these challenges is to put our countries’ economic relationship back on steady footing. The tenor of the relationship gets set at the top, so it’s time for Presidents Trump and Xi Jinping to work out their current trade disputes within a framework that prioritizes cooperation. The administration’s antipathy toward China sometimes seems driven by an irrational anger over trade deficits. Virtually all mainstream economists see the president’s theory that our trade relationship should be evaluated by the bilateral trade deficit as analytically wrong.On the other hand, China has contravened some widely accepted trade and investment norms by, for example, subsidizing exports, restricting imports, protecting national champions, imposing buy-China mandates and, at times, requiring foreign companies to share their intellectual property with Chinese partners.These structural policies present a complex problem. They’re embedded in China’s economic model, and the United States needs to recognize that it can’t simply demand that China change that model. And China needs to recognize that its system creates some unacceptable consequences in the trade arena. From there, the two countries should be able to identify reasonable solutions. Washington’s approach should have been multilateral and quiet, joining with other countries, including our European allies, Brazil, Mexico and Japan to approach Beijing as a united bloc; hopefully it’s not too late to walk this path.We’ve bridged our economic and political differences before. When I served as Treasury secretary in the 1990s, the United States and China worked together to stem the Asian financial crisis. And though the current administration has withdrawn from the Paris climate agreement, bilateral cooperation was integral to its creation in 2015.We must look beyond the daily headlines about trade to the more consequential problem of ever-greater friction between the United States and China. For the future of humanity, not to mention our immediate economic interests, our two countries must recognize our mutual self-interest in a constructive relationship and act accordingly.Robert E. Rubin, secretary of the Treasury from 1995 to 1999, is co-chairman emeritus of the Council on Foreign Relations.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported byBitsBy Sheera FrenkelSAN FRANCISCO — Each week, technology reporters and columnists from The New York Times review the week’s news, offering analysis and maybe a joke or two about the most important developments in the tech industry. Want this newsletter in your inbox? Sign up here.Hi, I’m Sheera Frenkel, your friendly cybersecurity reporter.I’m writing from a sunny and glorious San Francisco while the world’s elite share deep thoughts in snowy Davos, Switzerland, at an annual gathering of the rich and powerful.Executives from Facebook, Twitter, Google and Apple wined and dined with the elected officials and regulators who are responsible for holding their companies to account. A lot is at stake. The European Union is looking to enforce its new privacy regulations, and in the United States the Federal Trade Commission is expected to round out its investigation of Facebook within the next month or so.Other countries are also exploring regulation. Our colleagues at Davos reported that on Wednesday leaders of Japan, South Africa, China and Germany issued a call for global oversight of the tech sector.In the next year, important elections will be held in countries including India, Indonesia, Ukraine and Israel. Everyone will be watching to see whether social media is rife with false news and disinformation, and the tech companies will have a chance to show that they’ve changed for the better.If the last week was any indication, things aren’t looking great.Everyone was reminded of the power of social media to divide when a video showing a confrontation in Washington between a group of high school students and a Native American protester went viral.The minute-long video, which was first posted by a Twitter account called @2020fight, initially inspired outrage among liberal groups that believed the students were intimidating and mocking the protester.But within two days, another version of the video, which showed the protester intentionally walking into the group of students, had appeared. Conservative groups took to Twitter to claim that the students, not the protester, were the victims. They called on celebrities and prominent journalists to apologize to the students, and a group of lawyers announced that it would sue popular figures who had tweeted defamatory statements about the incident.Days later, people were still fighting about the video on Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, YouTube and the cable networks. The account that started it all — along with many that helped amplify it — remains anonymous.My colleague Kate Conger and I reported Wednesday that lawmakers were asking Twitter for more information about the accounts. There is concern that the accounts that amplified the tweet were foreign (read: Russian) and looking to stir discord among Americans. Twitter said it was investigating. So far, it appears that at least the original poster, @2020fight, is American.The account was suspended by Twitter. But what, at least under Twitter rules, did it do wrong? Many people on Twitter use fake names; many more use fake photos. Neither practice is explicitly against Twitter’s rules, and in many ways the account used Twitter for exactly what the platform was designed to do — to make something go viral.There’s a question of whether that is good for any of us, or whether, as my colleague Farhad Manjoo succinctly put it in his column this past week, the answer is to “Never Tweet.”■ Twitter wasn’t the only company to have a bad week. French regulators announced that they had fined Google 50 million euros, or about $57 million, for not properly disclosing how it collected data about its users across its services. Adam Satariano wrote that it was the largest penalty of its kind levied by the European Union, which last year adopted a sweeping new data privacy law known as the General Data Protection Regulation.■ In Australia, a sweeping new law gives local law enforcement authorities the power to compel tech companies like Apple to create tools, known as back doors, that would circumvent the encryption they built into their products.My colleague Nellie Bowles reported that the law’s impact could be felt globally. If Apple were to build a back door for iPhones, law enforcement in other countries, including the United States, could ask to use the same tool.The debate about back doors to encryption has been raging for years. Tech companies argue that they encrypt devices to protect users. The police say they need access to devices, especially phones, to do their jobs.■ In other news about our dystopian future, Cade Metz wrote about start-ups that are turning high-altitude surveillance into a lucrative business. Using cameras, sensors and inexpensive satellites, the companies are selling insights gleaned from those devices to hedge funds, banks and other market traders looking for an edge.■ Karen Weise wrote about how Amazon is building a huge business out of knowing everything you buy. Amazon doesn’t just know what you buy. It knows how often you buy it, where you ship it to and what you are most likely to buy next. Ads sold by Amazon are now a major part of its business, and it is quickly gaining ground on the industry leaders, Google and Facebook.■ A couple of days later, Gizmodo’s Kashmir Hill wrote an illuminating first-person account of her struggles to remove Amazon from her home. The article brought into sharp relief just how dominant Amazon is in our lives, and how hard it would be to live without the technology we have invited into our homes.Follow Sheera Frenkel on Twitter: @sheeraf.

Supported byBy Emily CochraneWASHINGTON — Along the 2,000-mile border with Mexico, which sprawls across four states and nine House districts, a single seat is held by a Republican: Representative Will Hurd of Texas.And Mr. Hurd, a former undercover C.I.A. officer who barely won re-election in Texas’ 23rd District, the largest of the nine, has emerged as perhaps the most persistent critic in his party of President Trump’s wall.Drawing upon his years undercover and his work in the private sector, Mr. Hurd has a starkly different vision for the southwestern border: fiber optic cables, sensors, radar, drones, increased staffing — but not the concrete or steel barrier that Mr. Trump has demanded before he reopens the government.He has joined Democrats eight times this month to vote to reopen the government, without wall funding.“Nobody likes being the cheese that’s standing alone,” Mr. Hurd said in an interview with The Daily, The New York Times’s podcast. “I have a unique perspective because I have so much border, because I have an entire career dealing with these issues. That is more important than any kind of political calculation.”“My specific role has always been to articulate the problems to a level of specificity that people can understand and then give the on-the-ground perspective and experience on what the solutions can be,” he added.Specificity, in this case, lies in the architecture of what Mr. Hurd describes as a “smart wall,” a wish list of technology and upgrades that would protect more than 800 miles of the southwestern border that demarcates the southern side of his district. He would dispense with the concrete wall or steel slats that Mr. Trump has advocated in raucous rallies, in favor of more advanced measures, including “a fiber optic cable from sea to shining sea.”“Let’s make sure we’re using the right tool in the right place,” Mr. Hurd said. “We should be thinking about all these different technologies and how they should be used, and when I describe this, nobody disagrees.”He added, “A wall from sea to shining sea is the most expensive and least effective way to do border security.”He is not, as his staff readily acknowledges, inclined to broadcast his perspective or obsessively rope in votes for his cause. He has not sought opportunities to directly lobby the president to endorse the technological barriers he has envisioned. (Mr. Hurd noted that the “key players” are all cognizant of his position.)Instead, he is content to remain on the periphery of the House Republican Conference, educating his colleagues, extending invitations to visit the border and voting the way he believes the majority of his constituents want him to. That is what resonates in a district that encompasses a large population of cybersecurity professionals — parts of San Antonio and rural areas — and has flipped five times between the two parties since the early 1990s.Here’s how much the proposed border deal would add to existing barriers.“My boss is not the president,” Mr. Hurd said. “My boss is not the speaker. My boss is not the minority leader. My bosses are those 800,000 people that I represented and sent me up here.”Aides say he often requests analysis of his personal outreach, including social media data and telephone town halls, that quantify who is following his work and their responses — metrics that inform his support of legislation on Capitol Hill, regardless of the party line or pressure from the presidential Twitter feed.“You can’t take a vocal minority as an indication of the epicenter of where people feel,” Mr. Hurd said. The mix of Republicans and Democrats in his district, he said, “believe that we should be able to secure our borders, and they think that’s a mix of tools that is necessary to do that.”His ability to deftly navigate the electoral perils of his district and retain a place on Capitol Hill has surprised both his party allies and his opponents across the aisle. His margin of victory in November was so slim — a little over 1,100 votes — that Mr. Hurd’s Democratic opponent attended new member orientation before conceding to Mr. Hurd.“I don’t know what it is, but it is clearly working for him,” said Colin Strother, a Democratic strategist in Texas. He added, “I’m sure among Republicans, there are people who aren’t happy that he’s not on board.”Conservatives acknowledge that Mr. Hurd is an asset to their conference; he has secured a temperamental electorate for now, and his intelligence, experience and status as the lone black Republican in the House chamber make him invaluable.The longer the federal government remains closed for business, more services are affected.“He just approaches it differently than most members,” said Matt Mackowiak, a veteran Republican strategist in Texas. “He’s also given the benefit of the doubt because of how difficult that district is.”Regardless of ideological differences, most Republicans express respect for Mr. Hurd’s knowledge, work ethic and dedication to the people he represents. In an announcement naming Mr. Hurd as a new member of the influential House Appropriations Committee, Representative Kevin McCarthy, Republican of California and the minority leader, hailed him as “one of the most innovative and entrepreneurial members” in Congress. Democratic colleagues hear a border security solution that resonates with their own border constituents.“He knows what he’s talking about,” said Representative Juan C. Vargas, a Democrat whose district traverses the California-Mexico border. “He hangs on because he’s smart and knows security.”Representative Pete Aguilar, Democrat of California, first reached out to Mr. Hurd to collaborate on legislation last year that would have secured a path to citizenship for so-called Dreamers, young undocumented immigrants brought to the country as children, while enhancing border security. The two men now text with each other so frequently that Mr. Aguilar jokes that his wife is a little jealous of their friendship.“Even members of Democratic leadership really respect how supportive he is in finding a solution on this issue,” Mr. Aguilar said.“It’s not lost on anyone on our side of the aisle,” he added, about how Mr. Hurd has crossed party lines to support bipartisan ideas on immigration and rebuff the president’s demands for a wall at the border.

Supported byBy Alan Feuer[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]Not long after his 21st birthday, Christian Rodriguez got the contract of a lifetime for his new info-tech company: The Colombian was hired as a cybersecurity consultant by Joaquín Guzmán Loera, the Mexican drug lord known as El Chapo.While Mr. Rodriguez had little experience or formal education, he had been recommended by one of his other clients: Jorge Cifuentes Villa, a veteran trafficker who worked with Mr. Guzmán making cocaine deals with left-wing guerrillas in Colombia.And so in 2008, the ambitious, young techie visited Mr. Guzmán at one of his hide-outs deep in the Sierra Madre mountains, inspecting the kingpin’s communications system and his shoddy internet setup, which often broke down when it rained. In several follow-up meetings, Mr. Rodriguez testified this week, he pitched Mr. Guzmán on an elaborate plan to enhance his information security, offering to build him a private phone network that ran on the internet and was totally encrypted.That sophisticated system was, within three years, used against Mr. Guzmán after Mr. Rodriguez became ensnared in an F.B.I. sting operation and was then persuaded to become an informant. The I.T. expert helped the American authorities secretly collect a vast trove of the kingpin’s phone calls and text messages — among them, dozens he had sent to his wife and mistresses. In two days of testimony that ended on Thursday, Mr. Rodriguez told this riveting story to great — and damaging — effect at Mr. Guzmán’s drug conspiracy trial in Federal District Court in Brooklyn.Mr. Rodriguez’s account was a kind of 21st-century cautionary tale. The moral? Always treat your I.T. people well. It was also a high-tech spy thriller in which federal agents were able to leverage Mr. Guzmán’s obsession with espionage against him.It all began when Mr. Rodriguez, now 32, took $100,000 to build the kingpin the encrypted network, which allowed as many as 100 members of the Sinaloa drug cartel to speak securely with each other merely by dialing three-digit extensions on their phones. Part of his contract, Mr. Rodriguez said, was to teach the kingpin’s team how to use the phones, recalling that he once gave a tutorial on the devices to Mr. Guzmán’s personal secretary in an armored car.But Mr. Guzmán — who, according to witnesses, long had a penchant for snooping — wanted something more. The I.T. expert said the crime lord also asked him to install spyware called FlexiSPY on the “special phones” he had given to his wife, Emma Coronel Aispuro, as well as to two of his lovers, including one who was a former Mexican lawmaker.The kingpin made other strange requests, Mr. Rodriguez told jurors on Thursday. Once, he said, Mr. Guzmán asked him to find a way to intercept every message being sent from every internet cafe in Culiacán, a city of about 800,000 residents in the crime lord’s home state of Sinaloa. (Mr. Rodriguez said he tried, but ultimately failed.)Working for a narco-lord could also be dangerous, he said.Not long after the assignment to tap the internet cafes, the Mexican military raided Mr. Guzmán’s secret mountain hide-out. Mr. Rodriguez said he was forced to wander for three days in the elevated terrain with the kingpin and a band of heavily armed bodyguards. The gunmen, Mr. Rodriguez recalled, carried both “large weapons” and one “very large weapon,” which, they told him, was capable of shooting down a helicopter.Throughout the grueling journey, Mr. Guzmán was “always very calm, very sure, very tranquil,” Mr. Rodriguez said.When a prosecutor asked the young techie how he felt being on the lam, he answered, “very badly.”After that experience, Mr. Rodriguez said he decided to put some “distance” between himself and Mr. Guzmán’s organization, training other technicians to run the cartel’s day-to-day communications. Shortly after, he recounted, the F.B.I. launched a covert operation to secure his cooperation.In February 2010, an F.B.I. agent testified Tuesday, an undercover officer posing as a Russian mobster met Mr. Rodriguez in a Manhattan hotel. The officer said he wanted the I.T. expert to devise a way for him to speak with his associates without law enforcement listening in.The following year, Mr. Rodriguez said on Thursday, two other federal agents approached him in Bogotá, Colombia, saying they knew he worked for Mr. Guzmán and telling him he was “in serious trouble.”That same day, Mr. Rodriguez said, he agreed to become a government informant. Over the next several months, he said he installed recording software in Mr. Guzmán’s network that automatically sent copies of the kingpin’s calls to the F.B.I. each day at midnight. Mr. Rodriguez also gave the bureau the user names and passwords of Mr. Guzmán’s FlexiSPY accounts, allowing agents to read — almost in real time — the intimate and incriminating texts he sent his romantic partners.All this came crashing down in 2012 when Mr. Rodriguez intercepted a phone call between two of Jorge Cifuentes’s siblings in which he heard them saying they had figured out that El Chapo’s tech guy was working with the Americans. After fleeing to the United States, Mr. Rodriguez said he had a “nervous breakdown” within a year. He was hospitalized and treated with electroconvulsive therapy.This week, he looked better, if not completely fine, telling jurors he was now on medication and seeing a psychiatrist.As he finished his testimony, Mr. Rodriguez left the witness stand and walked out the courtroom door, nervously avoiding Mr. Guzmán’s gaze.Follow Alan Feuer on Twitter: @alanfeuer

Supported byBy Sheera Frenkel, Kate Conger and Kevin RooseRussia created a playbook for spreading disinformation on social media. Now the rest of the world is following it.Twitter said on Thursday that countries including Bangladesh and Venezuela had been using social media to disseminate government talking points, while Facebook detailed a broad Iranian disinformation campaign that touched on everything from the conflict in Syria to conspiracy theories about the Sept. 11 attacks.The campaigns tied to various governments — as well as privately held accounts in the United States — followed a pattern similar to Russian disinformation efforts before and after the 2016 presidential election. Millions of people were targeted by content designed to widen political and social divisions among Americans.The global spread of social media disinformation comes in a year when major elections are set to take place in countries including India and Ukraine. Last year, social media disinformation played a role in a number of campaigns, including the highly contested presidential election in Brazil.“Elections are coming up around the world, and our goal is to protect their integrity to the best of our ability and to take the learnings from each with us,” said Carlos Monje Jr., Twitter’s director of public policy in the United States and Canada, in a blog post.Twitter also described a spike in domestic disinformation, or Americans targeting fellow Americans with false or misleading information.During the midterm elections in the United States last year, most of the false content on its site came from within the country itself, Twitter said. Many of the misleading messages focused on voter suppression, with the company deleting almost 6,000 tweets that included incorrect dates for the election or that falsely claimed that Immigrations and Customs Enforcement was patrolling polling stations.Twitter users posted 99 million tweets about the midterms — more than the social media company has observed during any prior election, Mr. Monje said.The company said it was still finding new suspicious activity by Russians, and that it had found and removed 418 accounts linked to Russia between last October and December. Previously, Twitter removed 3,843 accounts linked to the Russian government-associated troll farm called the Internet Research Agency.The 418 new accounts linked to Russia mimicked the behavior of the 3,843 accounts that were run by the I.R.A. Yoel Roth, Twitter’s head of site integrity, said in the blog post that the company could not prove that the new accounts it discovered were run by the I.R.A.Though Twitter and Facebook announced their findings separately, the companies — both under pressure to crack down on disinformation on their services — collaborated on the investigation.The most successful and ambitious of the disinformation efforts detailed on Thursday was believed to be an Iranian-led campaign that used Facebook and Twitter to reach millions of people across dozens of countries.The Iranian campaign had sought to sway public discourse in countries across the Middle East, Europe and Asia, Twitter and Facebook said. Some of the social media accounts involved in the campaign had been active for over a decade. Facebook said it had removed 783 pages, groups and accounts with ties to Iran, while Twitter removed 2,617 Iranian-linked accounts.Facebook’s investigation focused on pages tied to Iran that in some cases were nearly nine years old. The page administrators and account owners claimed they were local and posted items on topics like Israeli-Palestinian relations and the conflicts in Syria and Yemen.The Iranian effort had a number of goals, according to the Atlantic Council’s DFR Lab, which studies disinformation. The Facebook pages “promoted or amplified views in line with Iranian government’s international stances,” wrote the DFR lab in its initial analysis. Researchers noticed that the content shared included a strong pro-Iranian government bias, as well as an effort to advance Iranian interests.In several examples viewed by the DFR lab, the campaign shared content as varied as pro-Palestinian images and conspiracy theory videos that argued the Sept. 11 attacks were an “inside job” executed by the government of the United States.Facebook shared information about the campaign with the lab before the posts were removed.Last year, Facebook announced it had taken down two separate Iranian-linked disinformation campaigns. In October, the company said a campaign originating in Iran had been targeting people in the United States and Britain. In August, Facebook said it had found an influence operation that originated in Iran and Russia.Two other disinformation campaigns that Twitter removed were from Venezuela, which is currently grappling with political turmoil as Juan Guaidó, the opposition leader, has declared himself the country’s acting president in a challenge to the incumbent, Nicolás Maduro. (Both men have taken to Twitter to champion themselves.)One Venezuelan campaign that Twitter uncovered was made up of 764 accounts that posted about American politics and the midterm elections, while another network of 1,196 accounts posted political content targeted at Venezuelan citizens.Twitter was able to determine that the domestic Venezuelan campaign was organized by the Venezuelan government because of digital clues linking the accounts to the country. The activity also followed specific guidelines that were laid out in a troll farm guide compiled by the country’s government and obtained by Bloomberg, a person familiar with the campaign said.Twitter has said it is difficult to definitively tie accounts to specific countries or governments, though it uses information about how someone logs in and what kinds of content is posted to the account to determine its origin.Twitter and Facebook made their announcements Thursday as part of an effort to increase transparency around the fake accounts the companies find on their platforms. Twitter, for example, has published new data on the issue periodically since last October as it has faced scrutiny over how its service can be gamed to sway people’s thinking. Twitter said that it challenges 8 million to 10 million suspicious accounts every week.Twitter, Facebook and Google have been criticized by lawmakers, regulators and users around the world for not doing enough to curb disinformation.Social media executives, including Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook’s chief operating officer, and Jack Dorsey, Twitter’s chief executive, have since been called to testify about the problem before Congress. All have vowed to take measures to minimize the distribution of disinformation on their sites, many by using automated tools to detect fake and suspicious accounts.“This is an encouraging example of the type of collaboration we’re working to build across industry,” said Nathaniel Gleicher, Facebook’s head of cybersecurity policy.Follow Sheera Frenkel, Kate Conger and Kevin Roose on Twitter: @sheeraf, @kateconger and @kevinroose.

Supported byThe Trump administration is not prepared for a foreign policy crisis.By Antony J. BlinkenMr. Blinken was a deputy secretary of state in the Obama administration.Senator John McCain liked to remind us that it is always darkest before it goes completely black. That may prove an apt metaphor for President Trump’s foreign policy. The past two years have been plenty dark, with a long list of self-inflicted wounds: tearing up the Iran nuclear deal, pulling out of the Paris climate accord, walking away from the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade agreement, separating children from their parents at the border, insulting allies while embracing autocrats. But the administration has not faced an actual national security crisis that tests it and us in a profound way. There is no shortage of possible candidates — a major terrorist attack; a debilitating cyberattack; an infectious disease outbreak; an incident with North Korea, Iran, China or Russia that escalates into a broader conflict. Yet no administration in modern memory has been less prepared to deal with a true crisis than this one.I spent nearly 25 years in government, and almost as much time studying it. When it comes to the effective stewardship of our nation’s security — especially during crises — the most successful administrations had three things in common: people, process and policy. People with the experience, temperament and intellectual honesty to give a president good ideas and to dissuade him from pursuing bad ones. An effective process that brings key stakeholders together to question one another’s assumptions, stress test options and consider second-order effects. And all of this in the service of developing clear policies that provide marching orders to everyone in an administration, while putting allies at ease and adversaries on notice about our intentions.The George H.W. Bush administration’s handling of the end of the Cold War powerfully illustrates these principles. Mr. Bush, Secretary of State James Baker, the national security adviser Brent Scowcroft and a remarkable team of senior officials proved to be the right people in the right place at the right time. Mr. Scowcroft’s interagency process became a model for every successive administration until this one. The policies they pursued were clear, sustained and comprehensive. The Obama administration’s successes in bringing Osama bin Laden to justice and handling the Ebola epidemic were the results of similar strengths.When it comes to people, process and policy, Mr. Trump’s administration has gone from bad to disastrous.For two years, cooler heads like Defense Secretary Jim Mattis and the national security adviser H.R. McMaster served as something of a check on Mr. Trump’s worst instincts: invade Venezuela, withdraw from NATO, evacuate every American from the Korean Peninsula. Now, their successors — Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and John Bolton as national security adviser — are as likely to encourage Mr. Trump’s follies as to oppose them. Equally important, the Partnership for Public Service has found that almost 40 percent of leadership positions requiring Senate confirmation remain unfilled across the administration —  at last count 275 out of 705 jobs. About a third of the State Department’s 198 key posts are vacant. One-quarter of the administration’s departments are led by “acting” secretaries.There’s been record turnover in the White House itself — in its first two years 65 percent of the top positions in the Executive Office of the President have flipped, according to a Brookings Institution report by Kathryn Dunn Tenpas. By comparison, Barack Obama lost 24 percent of his senior advisers after two years and President George W. Bush 33 percent. Senior White House officials responsible for homeland security and cybersecurity have been pushed out and never replaced. The best and brightest are not exactly clamoring to jump aboard the Trump bandwagon.Under Mr. Bolton, the National Security Council headed by the president, the Principals’ Committee headed by Mr. Bolton and the Deputies Committee, which I once led and which coordinates policy deliberations, have gone into deep hibernation. Some combination of these committees typically met multiple times a day. Now, it is reportedly once or twice a week at most. The result is greater control of the policy process for Mr. Bolton and fewer messy meetings in which someone might challenge his wisdom. Mr. Mattis, who once complained about death by meetings, protested to Mr. Bolton about the lack of them.The absence of process has consequences. There were minimal efforts to prepare Mr. Trump for his summit with Kim Jong-un, the North Korean dictator, in which he unilaterally ended military exercises on the Korean Peninsula and mused about withdrawing all American forces. Nor was there a process to game out Mr. Trump’s recent decision to pull out of Syria — instead, the relevant committees scrambled after the fact to bring some order to Mr. Trump’s impulses. Even the welcome progress toward ending the 17-year war in Afghanistan has been hobbled by Mr. Trump’s arbitrary and then partly rescinded announcement that he was cutting forces in Afghanistan by half, thereby undercutting our leverage in negotiations with the Taliban.As for policy, it’s the lifeblood of any administration. Secretaries, other senior officials, ambassadors and envoys all need to know what the policy is to explain it to others and bring predictability to our nation’s foreign engagements. Mr. Trump’s failure to develop policies — and his tendency to countermand them by tweet — have caused major confusion worldwide about where we stand on issue after issue. In a crisis, having clear policy principles is even more important. Take the meltdown in Venezuela. The administration deserves credit for leading the international isolation of the country’s illegitimate president, Nicolás Maduro. But there is no evidence it has a comprehensive strategy to advance a peaceful transition — or a Plan B if Mr. Maduro digs in or lashes out.Axios reported that Mr. Trump likes to express his disdain for policy by citing the boxer Mike Tyson: Everybody has a plan until he gets punched in the mouth. It’s true that no policy fully survives first contact. But if you don’t spend time anticipating the shots you are likely to take, you wind up flailing about wildly. Which sounds a lot like Mr. Trump.These past two years, most of our foreign policy setbacks have been modest, and mostly of Mr. Trump’s own making. These next two, we may not be so lucky. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Antony J. Blinken, a deputy secretary of state in the Obama administration, is a managing director of the Penn Biden Center, a co-founder of WestExec Advisors and a contributing opinion writer.  @ABlinken 

Supported byBy Katrin BennholdDAVOS, Switzerland — Men attending the annual meeting of the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, this year were worried about a lot of things. A global economic slowdown. Threats to cybersecurity. Populism. War.And, several acknowledged at the meeting this past week, mentoring women in the #MeToo era.“I now think twice about spending one-on-one time with a young female colleague,” said one American finance executive, speaking on the condition of anonymity because the issue is “just too sensitive.”“Me, too,” said another man in the conversation.The #MeToo movement, which burst into the spotlight in the fall of 2017, bringing down powerful figures in Hollywood, the media, politics, sports and more, continues to reverberate 15 months later. It has empowered women to speak up about harassment in the workplace and forced companies to take the issue more seriously. More than 200 prominent men have lost their jobs, and nearly half of them were succeeded by women.But in one unintended consequence, executives and analysts say, companies seeking to minimize the risk of sexual harassment or misconduct appear to be simply minimizing contact between female employees and senior male executives, effectively depriving the women of valuable mentorship and exposure.“Basically, #MeToo has become a risk-management issue for men,” said Laura Liswood, secretary general of the Council of Women World Leaders, an organization for former and current female political leaders.It’s a problem many have acknowledged. Last February,  two online surveys by Lean In and SurveyMonkey on the effects of #MeToo in the workplace found that almost half of male managers were uncomfortable engaging in one or more common work activities with women, such as working one on one or socializing. One in six male managers was uncomfortable mentoring a female colleague, according to the studies, which together surveyed nearly 9,000 adults employed in the United States.Pat Milligan, who leads research on female leadership at the consulting firm Mercer and advises multinational companies on gender and diversity issues, said many of her clients had voiced concerns over saying or doing “the wrong thing” since #MeToo drew broad international attention.“A number of men have told me that they will avoid going to dinner with a female mentee, or that they’re concerned about deploying a woman solo on-site with a male,” Ms. Milligan said. “People are concerned and have questions.”“If we allow this to happen, it will set us back decades,” Ms. Milligan said. “Women have to be sponsored by leaders, and leaders are still mostly men.”The main focus now, she said, is education. When male executives tell her that they are considering deliberately avoiding women, she tells them bluntly that would be illegal. “Just replace the word ‘woman’ with any minority,” she said. “Yes, you have to talk about the right kind of behavior, but you can’t stop interacting with women.”Such hesitance among male managers, while intensifying in the #MeToo era, has long been an issue. Research by the economist Sylvia Ann Hewlett found that two-thirds of male executives hesitated to hold one-on-one meetings with women in more junior positions, for fear they could be misconstrued. Vice President Mike Pence has said that he never dines alone with a woman other than his wife, a maxim that has become widely known as the Pence Rule. Beyond the mentorship issue, some indicators of gender equality are slipping, though it is hard to establish any link with #MeToo.In its December report examining educational opportunities, life expectancy, pay equity and other factors, the World Economic Forum predicted that it would take 202 years for gender parity to be reached in the workplace. That is significantly more than the estimate of 170 years in 2016.Of the Fortune 500 companies, just 24 had female chief executives in 2018, down from 32 a year earlier. While the number of female heads of government has more than doubled since 2000, they still make up just six percent, according to data from the United Nations.“Gender fatigue,” Ms. Milligan said, noting that the #MeToo movement had come after an intense decade of raising awareness on gender imbalances.“The business case for women had been made,” Ms. Milligan said. “We were rocking it. And then #MeToo happened.”One challenge is to assess the risk of sexual harassment in a company and to identify men who make women uncomfortable — or worse, harass them. Traditional tools like employee surveys are not effective, said Ms. Milligan, who recommends technological tools that allow for real-time and anonymous chats.Once companies have identified those who make women uncomfortable, they have to assess whether the men are “clueless, creepy or criminal,” Ms. Milligan said.“If you think they are clueless, you can coach them,” she said. “Clueless can become creepy very quickly if you don’t address it.”“If they are creepy, you have to act,” she added.Marc Pritchard, chief brand officer of Procter &amp; Gamble, said it was important to show zero tolerance to bad behavior of any kind.“It’s not enough to stand by when toxic masculinity is on display,” he said. “It’s not enough to stand by and say ‘that’s not me.’ You need to be a role model for the next generation.”But men also need “safe spaces” to air their confusion and concerns about what behavior might qualify as bad, he said. “We need something like Lean In circles for men,” he said, referring to the movement inspired by the Sheryl Sandberg book to empower women in the workplace and beyond.Shelley Zalis of the Female Quotient, a company dedicated to achieving workplace equality, spoke of a climate of “microsensitivity.”“I tell women, before you take offense, make men aware that you are uncomfortable, as it may not be intentional,” she said. “Women and men must work together to write a new script for what’s O.K. in the workplace so we all feel safe.”Otherwise, she said, men may avoid women more, making the path to senior leadership positions even trickier.Not everyone is convinced that men have altered their behavior all that much in the #MeToo era. Stephanie Ruhle, a banker-turned-television anchor, pointed out in a Davos panel titled the Future of Masculinity that men on Wall Street had never really gone out of their way to promote women before #MeToo, either.“Could this be an excuse?” she said.

Supported byBy David E. SangerWASHINGTON — Marriott International said on Friday that the biggest hacking of personal information in history was not quite as big as first feared, but for the first time conceded that its Starwood hotel unit did not encrypt the passport numbers for roughly five million guests. Those passport numbers were lost in an attack that many outside experts believe was carried out by Chinese intelligence agencies.When the attack was first reported by Marriott at the end of November, it said that information on upward of 500 million guests may have been stolen, all from the reservations database of Starwood, a major hotel chain Marriot had acquired. But at the time, the company said that the figure was a worst-case scenario because it included millions of duplicate records.On Friday the firm said that teams of forensic and data analysts had identified “approximately 383 million records as the upper limit” for the total number of guest reservations records lost, though the company still says it has no idea who carried out the attack, and it suggested the figure would decline over time as more duplicate records are identified. The revised figure is still the largest loss in history, greater than the attack on Equifax, the consumer credit-reporting agency, which lost the driver’s license and Social Security numbers of roughly 145.5 million Americans in 2017, leading to the ouster of its chief executive and a huge loss of confidence in the firm.What made the Starwood attack different was the presence of passport numbers, which could make it far easier for an intelligence service to track people who cross borders. That is particularly important in this case: In December, The New York Times reported that the attack was part of a Chinese intelligence gathering effort that, reaching back to 2014, also hacked American health insurers and the Office of Personnel Management, which keeps security clearance files on millions of Americans.Taken together, the attack appeared to be part of a broader effort by China’s Ministry of State Security to compile a huge database of Americans and others with sensitive government or industry positions — including where they worked, the names of their colleagues, foreign contacts and friends, and where they travel.“Big data is the new wave for counterintelligence,” James A. Lewis, a cybersecurity expert who runs the technology policy program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, said last month.One top official of the Chinese Ministry of State Security was arrested in Belgium late last year and extradited to the United States on charges of playing a central role in the hacking of American defense-related firms, and others were identified in a Justice Department indictment in December. But those cases were unrelated to the Marriott attack, which the F.B.I. is still investigating.China has denied any knowledge of the Marriott attack. In December, Geng Shuang, a spokesman for its Ministry of Foreign Affairs, said, “China firmly opposes all forms of cyberattack and cracks down on it in accordance with the law.”“If offered evidence, the relevant Chinese departments will carry out investigations according to the law,” the spokesman added.The Marriott investigation has revealed a new vulnerability in hotel systems: What happens to passport data when a customer makes a reservation or checks into a hotel, usually abroad, and hands over a passport to the desk clerk. Marriott said for the first time that 5.25 million passport numbers were kept in the Starwood system in plain, unencrypted data files — meaning they were easily read by anyone inside the reservation system. An additional 20.3 million passport numbers were kept in encrypted files, which would require a master encryption key to read. It is unclear how many of those involved American passports, and how many come from other countries.“There is no evidence that the unauthorized third party accessed the master encryption key needed to decrypt the encrypted passport numbers,” Marriott said in a statement.It was not immediately clear why some numbers were encrypted and others were not — other than that hotels in each country, and sometimes each property, had different protocols for handling the passport information. Intelligence experts note that American intelligence agencies often seek the passport numbers of foreigners they are tracking outside the United States, which may explain why the United States government has not insisted on stronger encryption of passport data worldwide.Asked how Marriott was handling the information now that it has merged Starwood’s data into the Marriott reservations system — a merger that was just completed at the end of 2018 — Connie Kim, a company spokeswoman, said: “We are looking into our ability to move to universal encryption of passport numbers and will be working with our systems vendors to better understand their capabilities, as well as reviewing applicable national and local regulations.”The State Department issued a statement last month telling passport holders not to panic, because the number alone would not enable someone to create a fake passport. Marriott has said it would pay for a new passport for anyone whose passport information, hacked from their systems, was found to be involved in a fraud. But that was something of a corporate sleight of hand, since it provided no coverage for guests who wanted a new passport simply because their data had been taken by foreign spies.So far the company has ducked addressing that issue by saying it has no evidence about who the attackers were, and the United States has not formally accused China in the case. But private cyberintelligence groups that have looked at the breach have seen strong parallels with the other, Chinese-related attacks underway at the time. The company’s president and chief executive, Arne Sorenson, has not answered questions about the hacking in public, and Marriott said he was traveling and declined a request from The Times to talk about hacking.The company also said that about 8.6 million credit and debit cards were “involved” in the incident, but those are all encrypted — and all but 354,000 cards had expired by September 2018, when the hacking, which went on for years, was discovered.So far, there are no known cases in which stolen passport or credit card information was found in fraudulent transactions. But to cyberattack investigators, that is just another sign that the hacking was conducted by intelligence agencies, not criminals. The agencies would want to use the data for their own purposes — building databases and tracking government or industrial surveillance targets — rather than exploiting the data for economic profit.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.

Supported byBy Adam SatarianoLONDON — Facebook identified two disinformation campaigns originating from Russia — including one tied to an agency controlled by the Kremlin — that were targeted at users in Europe and Central Asia. The company said on Thursday it had deleted nearly 500 pages and accounts that had posted the misleading messages.Many of the pages were discovered to be linked to employees of Sputnik, an agency controlled by the Russian government that was established to spread reports and information sympathetic to Russia. It used independent news pages on topics like weather, travel and sports to mask its efforts, Facebook said.The company has been under pressure to more aggressively address the spread of misinformation, and to counter manipulation on its social network that is aimed at stirring division and discord, ever since it became evident that Russia used it to target groups of voters, sow division and spread false information in order to sway the 2016 presidential election. Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, has said the detection of suspicious activity is a top priority.But on a platform of two billion users, disinformation campaigns are hard to detect, and Facebook remains a gathering ground for groups eager to spread disinformation to the widest audience possible.The activity revealed by Facebook shows how Kremlin-linked groups continue to use the social network to spread misleading materials around the world. Several of the countries targeted share a border with Russia.“We are constantly working to detect and stop this type of activity because we don’t want our services to be used to manipulate people,” Nathaniel Gleicher, head of cybersecurity policy at Facebook, said in a blog post.The discovery provides another glimpse of the manipulative tactics used by groups to promote their articles, videos, groups and other content on Facebook. Fake accounts were created in different countries with the sole purpose of sharing content from Sputnik.Facebook said one of the campaigns had targeted people in 13 countries in Eastern Europe and Central Asia. Facebook deleted 289 pages and 75 accounts linked to that effort, which also spent about $135,000 on Facebook advertising from 2013 to this month.About 790,000 users followed one or more of the pages, and up to 1,200 people expressed interest in attending one of the roughly 190 events organized by those behind the fake pages. Facebook couldn’t say whether any of the events had taken place.The company said the misleading content aimed to influence people in Armenia, Azerbaijan, Estonia, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Lithuania, Moldova, Romania, Russia, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan.Facebook said it had shared information about the investigation with United States authorities, Congress, other technology companies and policymakers in the targeted countries.Ben Nimmo, a research fellow at the Atlantic Council, a Washington think tank that analyzes misinformation online, said Facebook’s decision to block Sputnik-linked accounts was significant because of the agency’s direct ties to the Kremlin.“This is the first time we’ve seen a takedown of this scale linked directly to the national propaganda channel,” said Mr. Nimmo, who was part of a group at the Atlantic Council’s Digital Forensic Research Lab that had been investigating the Russian campaign separately from Facebook. “This is the first time we’ve had something that was so directly traced back to Sputnik itself.”In Moscow, Sputnik accused Facebook of “censorship,” saying that the platform had blocked seven pages that belonged to newsrooms in different countries and calling the decision “political,” according to an article by RIA Novosti, another branch of Russia’s propaganda apparatus.“Sputnik is dealing with news,” the organization said. “If blocking is the only reaction Facebook can come up with in response to the quality work of news media, then we have no further questions.”The statement also said Sputnik hoped that “common sense will prevail.”The Atlantic Council said the pages were a covert attempt to amplify messages from Sputnik, a division of the Kremlin’s media agency, Rossiya Segodnya. All told, the inauthentic network helped Sputnik raise its reach in the countries covered by more than 170 percent, according to the Atlantic Council.Much of the posted material was innocuous content about weather, fashion and local celebrities, but some presented negative views toward NATO and the treatment of ethnic Russians in Baltic countries. Most of the pages didn’t mention a connection with Rossiya Segodnya or Sputnik.“This therefore appears to have been an attempt to audience build and draw users’ attention to Sputnik as a media brand rather than to manipulate them with Russian political or geopolitical messaging,” the Atlantic Council’s Digital Forensic Research Lab said in a report published separately from Facebook.The work appeared to be coordinated. On a single day in October 2017, the Atlantic Council said, inauthentic pages seeking to spread Sputnik content were created to focus on Armenia, Chechnya, Estonia, Georgia, Latvia, Lithuania, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan. At other points, fan pages purporting to support the presidents of Uzbekistan and Tajikistan were created, but they were actually run from Russia.Facebook also identified a separate effort, discovered after a tip from United States law enforcement authorities, aimed at users in Ukraine, a frequent target of Moscow misinformation campaigns over the four-year confrontation between the two neighboring countries.The tactics used by those behind the Ukraine-targeted accounts were similar to the misinformation efforts conducted by Russia’s Internet Research Agency during the campaign for the recent midterm elections in the United States, Facebook said.The effort included 107 Facebook pages, groups and accounts, as well as 41 Instagram accounts.“The people behind this activity coordinated with one another and used fake accounts to misrepresent themselves, and that was the basis for our action,” Mr. Gleicher said of the shutdowns.Facebook has discovered several coordinated misinformation campaigns since the 2016 presidential election, when Russia-linked groups used the social network to reach 126 million users.In November, Facebook said it had blocked more than 100 Facebook and Instagram posts over concern they were linked to the Internet Research Agency. In August, Facebook also removed 652 fake accounts, pages and groups originating in Russia and Iran that were trying to spread misinformation.The actions are a shift from when Facebook was widely criticized for failing to detect Russian interference. Facebook executives have said the company is making progress, but also warn of a protracted and challenging battle as groups become more sophisticated at avoiding detection.“Get used to this,” Mr. Nimmo said. “It’s not just Facebook. It’s going to be all the platforms. This is the new normal.”Neil MacFarquhar contributed reporting from Moscow.

Some venture capitalists are rooting for a market dip to calm Silicon Valley’s overheated start-up scene.Vini Letteri, a managing director at KKR, has a “downturn list” of 150 companies his firm wants to invest in if start-up valuations decline.CreditCreditAnastasiia Sapon for The New York TimesSupported byBy Erin GriffithSAN FRANCISCO — Vini Letteri, a managing director at KKR who invests in tech companies, had a slow 2018.Mr. Letteri, a venture capitalist who manages a $714 million fund, tried to put some of that money into 12 tech start-ups last year — but failed when they demanded too rich a price. In some cases, he said, his offers to invest were outbid by as much as 40 percent. The only investment he led in 2018 was a $360 million deal in OutSystems, a software company in Atlanta.So here’s what Mr. Letteri is not-so-secretly hoping for in 2019: a downturn in the private start-up market.“When the market turns, we’re prepared to be more aggressive,” he said. He added that he had sketched out a “downturn list” of 150 targets — including financial tech, cybersecurity, and consumer internet companies — in case they become cheaper.Mr. Letteri is one of a growing number of venture capitalists rooting for a market dip to calm the overheated start-up scene. For the past few years, Silicon Valley tech start-ups have been awash in a stream of cash that has allowed them to expand quickly and sell or go public at high valuations. Yet that drove up the costs of deal making for venture capitalists, who often prefer to invest in young companies at lower prices in the hopes of making a bigger return later.Now some of these investors may get their wish for a market decline. Stocks tumbled late last year, led by tech giants such as Facebook and Apple, amid fears of slowing economic growth and a trade war with China. And so far this year, the stock market has swung wildly, whipsawed by confusing signals including Apple’s disappointing iPhone sales in China and American employers adding more jobs than expected last month.While it takes time for choppiness in the stock market to ripple out into the start-up market, many venture investors are already preparing for a downturn. Some are setting aside money to pounce on investments and are preparing to write bigger checks with the expectation that new investors who flooded in in recent years will flee. And they are keeping closer tabs on companies that were too expensive to invest in last year.“We definitely want to take advantage of a market downturn,” said Sandy Miller, a venture capitalist at IVP who projects that start-up valuations will fall by 10 percent to 40 percent this year. He said his Silicon Valley venture firm has set aside “meaningful reserves” to do more deals and to put more money into companies it has already invested in, though he declined to specify an amount.Silicon Valley investors have long complained that start-up valuations have gotten too expensive, given that the start-up ecosystem has been on a bull run since at least 2015. That has minted an unprecedented number of “unicorn” start-ups, which are valued at more than $1 billion, including now-giant companies such as Uber and Airbnb.But the rising valuations have only continued to climb in the last year. In 2018, the median company valuation for one category of mature start-ups more than doubled to $420 million, up from $183 million in 2017, according to Carta, a provider of valuation software and services. And in a 2017 National Bureau of Economic Research study of 135 unicorn start-ups, researchers concluded the companies were overvalued by an average of 50 percent.“There’s too much heat around good, not necessarily great, companies” that are older, said Mamoon Hamid, a partner at the venture firm Kleiner Perkins. Even one “good, not great” company he recently met with had 13 investment offers, he said. The upshot: Kleiner did not invest.Greg Sands, a managing partner at Costanoa Ventures, said his venture firm walked away from three investments in 2018 where the price was 30 percent higher than he was willing to pay, an increase from past years. He also screened out numerous companies that were asking for more money than seemed reasonable — yet some of those companies then went on to raise triple that amount from other investors.“What’s happening right now isn’t sustainable and it won’t go on forever. It can’t,” he said. Costanoa raised a $75 million “opportunity fund,”, which Mr. Sands said would give it the ability to do more deals when the market cools down.Many other venture capital firms are also in a position to become more aggressive in case of a market downturn. Venture funds raised $30.2 billion in the first three quarters of last year, on track to surpass 2017’s total of $35.3 billion, according to PitchBook, a data provider.Start-up founders also appear to be preparing for a potential shift in fortunes. In a survey conducted late last year by First Round Capital, a venture capital firm, just under half of 529 entrepreneurs said they expected fund-raising to become more difficult in 2019. A third said they believed the tech bubble was close to popping, a 10-point increase over 2017.Some start-ups are raising more money to weather the uncertainty, according to Kirsten Green, a managing partner at Forerunner Ventures. Others are creating backup plans to cut costs so their survival won’t depend on new funding.Not all venture capitalists want a downturn, especially if it will throw a wrench into the plans of some of the biggest unicorns — such as Uber, Lyft, Pinterest and Slack — to go public. Many investors are eager to cash out of those companies when they stage an initial public offering.“You always want a better market,” said Micah Rosenbloom, a managing partner at Founder Collective, which was an early investor in Uber. “In a crisis, everything gets hard. You’d rather have your companies in good times for everything from hiring to sales.”Still, Mr. Rosenbloom said he also saw opportunity in a downturn. His firm’s two most successful investments — Uber and the Trade Desk, a digital advertising company — were created in the aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis.In previous downturns, the less serious entrepreneurs disappeared, leaving the most committed ones, said David Pakman, a partner at venture firm Venrock. “During those periods, some incredible companies were founded by highly determined entrepreneurs,” he said. “The cream rose to the top.”Follow Erin Griffith on Twitter: @eringriffith

Supported byDealBookIncome Sharing Agreements are gaining the attention of higher education and Wall Street. One early success story is getting a boost from venture capital.By Andrew Ross SorkinWhat if there were a way to eliminate student debt? No, really. Student debt reached a new height last year — a whopping $1.5 trillion. A typical student borrower will have $22,000 in debt by graduation, according to the National Center for Education Statistics.Now, Silicon Valley is backing a novel idea that proposes to rewrite the economics of getting an education.The concept is deceptively simple: Instead of charging students tuition — which often requires them to take out thousands of dollars in loans — students go to school for free and are required to pay back a percentage of their income after graduation, but only if they get a job with a good salary.The idea, known as an Income Share Agreement, or I.S.A., has been experimented with and talked about for years. But what’s happening at Lambda School, an online learning start-up founded in 2017 with the backing of Y Combinator, has captivated venture capitalists. On Tuesday, Lambda will receive $30 million in funding led by one of Peter Thiel’s disciples, Geoff Lewis, the founder of Bedrock, along with additional funds from Google Ventures; GGV Capital; Vy Capital; Y Combinator; and the actor-investor Ashton Kutcher, among others. The new funding round values the school at $150 million.The investments will be used to turn Lambda, which has focused on subjects like coding and data science, into a multidisciplinary school offering half-year programs in professions where there is significant hiring demand, like nursing and cybersecurity. It’s an expansion that could be a precursor to Lambda becoming a full-scale university. Lambda is being closely watched by educators, the student debt complex and even Wall Street. Purdue University has developed a version of an Income Share Agreement. And Tony James, executive vice chairman of Blackstone Group, has started the Education Finance Institute and hired James Runcie, former chief operating officer of the Office of Federal Student Aid, to help universities and education systems develop I.S.A. programs.It is an approach meant to treat students as investments rather than cash cows — a fundamental shift that could finally lift the crippling debt load we routinely push onto students. But it also comes with a peculiar kind of danger: By seeking safe investments, programs like this could cast aside the strides made to expand educational opportunities to higher-risk students and reduce the appeal of educations that focus on noble, but lower compensated, professions.At Lambda, students pay nothing upfront. But they are required to pay 17 percent of their salary to Lambda for two years if they get a job that pays more than $50,000. (Lambda says 83 percent of its students get a job with a median salary of $70,000 within six months of graduating.) If they don’t get a job, or their salary is lower, they pay nothing. Payments are capped at $30,000, so a highly paid student isn’t penalized for success, and if a student loses a job, the payments pause.It is a model that so far has been aimed at vocational education but has the potential to end the crushing cycle of student debt and change the way schools think about students.“It aligns the incentives fully,” said Mr. Lewis, the venture capitalist. The school is incentivized to only enroll motivated students who won’t drop out; it is incentivized to successfully teach them the skills they will need on the job; it is incentivized to find them a job; and it is incentivized to make sure they are a success once they’re on the job because the school relies on employers to keep hiring its graduates. “There are no schools that are incentivized to make their students successful anywhere,” said Austen Allred, co-founder and chief executive of Lambda. “The schools get paid up front, they get paid in cash, whether that’s by the government or whether that’s by an individual doesn’t really matter. At the end of the day, the schools get paid no matter what. “I think in order to create better outcomes the school has to take the hit,” he said.Mr. Allred said he doesn’t see Lambda as a replacement for a four-year education — yet. “What we’re built to do right now is close employment gaps,” he said. “So if you have a field where there is a shortage of employees the obvious place for us to start is by building programs to fill those holes.” Whether this model can — or should — be applied to the larger education system remains an open question. It clearly improves the financial incentives for the school and the student. But, if expanded more widely, it could press programs to ignore a traditional liberal arts education, where the earning power is reduced. If a student dreamed of a major in Russian literature, she may struggle to find a school that sees a knowledge of Tolstoy to be particularly marketable.It also means schools may not be willing to take a chance on a promising but higher-risk student.“Is it a bad thing to say that schools are going to be for people who are motivated to succeed in said school?” Mr. Allred asked. “I look at some of the predatory, for-profit educations that just don’t care. I don’t think that’s a win for anybody, including the students. I think schools should be actively trying to determine who will be successful and that’s part of your job. Harvard does that, right?”Critics of such programs have argued they are a form of indentured servitude. The percentage of income that Lambda takes — 17 percent — is high, and has even been described as predatory. And Purdue’s program is even more aggressive: It is a loan-like arrangement that could charge high-earning students 250 percent of the cost of their education. But those concerns seem less worrying: Student loan borrowers can already pay enormous amounts of interest, and Lambda’s two years of payments could be far more palatable than the decade or more of monthly bills that are already the norm for most college graduates, who can’t escape them even by filing for bankruptcy.“Depending on how it’s structured I think you could come up with something that’s scalable across four-year universities and schools across the country,” said Mr. Runcie, who was hired to help schools put I.S.A. programs in place.There almost certainly will be obstacles, even with big-money investors capable of providing the kind of cash that makes them easier to surmount. Such programs would have to guard against leaving deserving students behind, and might not work at all outside the high-earning fields of technology and business. But in sticking to the Silicon Valley ethos of breaking the status quo, Lambda may have found a radically new approach to funding education, one that could really work for students, not just for schools and bill collectors. Education Inc. should be taking notes.Andrew Ross Sorkin is a columnist and the founder and editor-at-large of DealBook. He is a co-anchor of CNBC’s Squawk Box and the author of “Too Big to Fail.” He is also the co-creator of the Showtime drama series Billions.  @andrewrsorkin • Facebook 

Supported byBy Ronen Bergman and Scott ShaneCitizen Lab, a cybersecurity watchdog organization at the University of Toronto, has published hard-hitting research on powerful targets in recent years: Chinese government censorship, Silicon Valley’s invasion of customers’ privacy, despotic regimes’ electronic surveillance of dissidents. It’s the kind of work that can make enemies.So when John Scott-Railton, a senior researcher at Citizen Lab, got an odd request for a meeting last week from someone describing himself as a wealthy investor from Paris, he suspected a ruse and decided to set a trap.Over lunch at New York’s five-star Peninsula Hotel, the white-bearded visitor, who said his name was Michel Lambert, praised Mr. Scott-Railton’s work and pried for details about Citizen Lab. Then — “as I was finishing my crème brûlée,” Mr. Scott-Railton said — a reporter and photographer from The Associated Press, alerted by Mr. Scott-Railton and lurking nearby, confronted the visitor, who bumped into chairs and circled the room while trying to flee.At least two other men nearby appeared to be operatives — one who stood at the door, another who seemed to be filming from a table, said Mr. Scott-Railton, who himself filmed his lunch companion.The case of the bumbling spy is the latest episode involving undercover agents, working for private intelligence firms or other clients, who adopt false identities to dig up compromising information about or elicit embarrassing statements from their targets.“Michel Lambert” is a pseudonym and the Paris company he claimed to represent does not exist. The New York Times, in collaboration with Uvda, an investigative television show on Israel’s Channel 12, has confirmed that the mysterious visitor was Aharon Almog-Assoulin, a retired Israeli security official who until recently served on the town council in a suburb of Tel Aviv.Contacted by The Times on Sunday, he said, “I do not have any interest in continuing with this conversation” and hung up. Mr. Scott-Railton, shown a photograph of Mr. Almog-Assoulin, said he was certain it was the man he had met.The phenomenon of private spies drew widespread attention in 2017, when Black Cube, an Israeli private intelligence firm, was found to have used undercover agents to approach women who had accused Harvey Weinstein, the Hollywood producer, of sexual misconduct. Black Cube later was identified as having sent agents, again under false cover, to investigate Obama administration officials who had worked on the Iran nuclear deal.Black Cube denied that it had played any role in approaching Citizen Lab employees, but the same undercover agent turned up in an earlier case in Canada with a Black Cube connection.In October 2017, a man who resembles Mr. Almog-Assoulin appeared in Toronto, using another pseudonym, to meet someone involved in long-running litigation between Catalyst Capital Group and West Face Capital, two feuding private equity firms. The person, who asked not to be named to avoid further legal trouble, said that when he saw the photo of “Michel Lambert” in an A.P. story on Saturday, he immediately recognized him as the man who had approached him, given him a false business card and questioned him about the lawsuits.In court papers, Catalyst Capital has acknowledged that to provide support for its litigation, its law firm engaged a company that subsequently hired Black Cube as a subcontractor.Asked by The Times whether Mr. Almog-Assoulin has worked for Black Cube, the company and its lawyer replied with letters threatening legal action and saying the company had no part in the Citizen Lab case. The letters did not directly answer multiple questions on Mr. Almog-Assoulin’s role.At the lunch with Mr. Scott-Railton, the supposed Mr. Lambert had asked repeated questions about one aspect of Citizen Lab’s work: a series of damning reports since 2016 on NSO Group, an Israeli company that makes surveillance software used by multiple governments to spy on their opponents, including a friend of Jamal Khashoggi, the Saudi journalist who was murdered by government agents in October. The company has received extensive media coverage, including in The Times, often citing the Citizen Lab work.A spokesman for NSO Group denied that the company had any connection to the Citizen Lab encounters.“NSO had absolutely nothing to do with this incident — either directly or indirectly. Furthermore, we did not hire Black Cube or anyone else to investigate Citizen Lab’s activities and we did not ask any person or organization to hire Black Cube or any other person or firm to investigate Citizen Lab,” the spokesman said. He said NSO is “quite familiar with Citizen Lab’s shoddy ‘research’ and its philosophical opposition to our work helping intelligence agencies fight terrorism and crime.”Mr. Scott-Railton was especially alert to the possibility that Citizen Lab might be a target of hostile attention because a colleague of his, Bahr Abdul Razzak, had been approached by a different undercover agent. Mr. Abdul Razzak quickly determined that the name and company that visitor had given were false, and he warned other Citizen Lab workers to watch for similar approaches.In both cases, according to the Citizen Lab employees, the mysterious visitors claimed to have money to invest and asked questions about Citizen Lab’s work, particularly its research on NSO Group. They also seemed to be trying to provoke the Citizen Lab researchers into making anti-Semitic or otherwise offensive comments.“Do you hate Israel?” Mr. Abdul Razzak was asked by the first visitor, who gave his name as “Gary Bowman,” apparently a pseudonym.Mr. Scott-Railton noted that private intelligence companies often claim that they target only wrongdoers and act ethically and legally. “Well, the conduct of those who commissioned this work against Citizen Lab, and whoever executed it, crosses every ethical and moral line,” he said.The operatives, whoever they were working for, did not seem especially smooth. Mr. Almog-Assoulin, posing as “Michel Lambert,” claimed to be intrigued by Mr. Scott-Railton’s doctoral research on using kites to lift cameras aloft, though drones have made that work a bit out of date.At their lunch meeting, he read questions from cue cards of three colors that seemed to be organized by topic, explaining that at his age he needed them to keep the details straight. He held the cards in one hand, while in the other he held and awkwardly pointed a pen that appeared to contain a video recorder, Mr. Scott-Railton said.In a phone conversation, he had told Mr. Scott-Railton that he had a son about his age. When they met, he said the child was a daughter.At one point, Mr. Scott-Railton said, the supposed Mr. Lambert suggested that they move their conversation to a nearby cigar bar, noting that he was especially fond of Punch cigars, a premium brand.As it happens, Mr. Almog-Assoulin’s profile picture on WhatsApp, a tool for secure texts and calls, is an image of the Punch cigar logo.

Supported byBy Melissa EddyBERLIN — A 20-year-old German student took advantage of passwords as weak as “Iloveyou” and “1234” to hack into online accounts of hundreds of lawmakers and personalities whose political stances he disliked, officials revealed Tuesday, shaking Berlin’s political establishment and raising questions about data security in Europe’s leading economy.Working from his computer in his parents’ home, the young man used relatively simple techniques to hack into successive accounts, the authorities said. There, he stole the users’ personal information and published it through Twitter over the course of December.But it was not until late on Jan. 3 that an employee in the office of Andrea Nahles, leader of the center-left Social Democratic Party, finally noticed the hack and informed security officials, who then scrambled to track the source of the leaks.At a time when Western officials are increasingly wary of digital interference in institutions and elections, and just months before European elections, the revelation of a widespread data breach that took a month to detect has prompted harsh assessments of the preparedness of a nation that for decades has prided itself on its technological prowess. The news that a single person, using unsophisticated methods, was responsible, only compounded those concerns.On Tuesday, Chancellor Angela Merkel’s interior minister, Horst Seehofer, and senior security officials pushed back against accusations they had been too slow to respond or had failed in their mission to keep Germans safe online. They insisted they had organized a response within minutes of learning of the hack and said they had informed lawmakers about the risk of security breaches after a 2015 hack on the government network.“This incident is painful, but our reaction shows the security of the German people is ensured around the clock, also in the cybersphere,” Mr. Seehofer told reporters.Holger Münch, the head of Germany’s federal police, said the young man, whose identity was not released because he was being treated as a juvenile, had admitted during questioning to stealing the personal data of an array of public figures. Most of them are politicians, from all of Germany’s leading political parties — save for the far-right Alternative for Germany, or AfD.“Based on our assessment so far, we believe he acted alone,” Mr. Münch told reporters, adding that so far, investigators had no evidence that the hacker had any affiliation with a political party or other groups. “He acted out of a general discontent with politicians, or journalists, or public figures, who he wanted to expose. That was his motive.”The man was detained on Sunday on suspicion of spying and illegally publishing personal information, crimes that carry a sentence of up to three years each. But because he has no previous criminal record and is being treated as a juvenile, it is likely that he would receive a much lighter sentence.He has since been released on grounds there was not sufficient reason to hold him in detention pending the outcome of the investigation, said Georg Ungefuk, a prosecutor with the Frankfurt-based office responsible for cybercrimes, which is carrying out the investigation.Germany’s main government network was breached by hackers in 2015, and the authorities worried that information obtained then would be used against politicians leading up to the 2017 election. Those fears were largely unfounded, but Mr. Seehofer, the interior minister, warned that last month’s breach should be a warning to everyone, especially ahead of the European parliamentary election in May.“We must be prepared that outside actors may want to influence this election and take every precaution to prevent this and do what we can to recognize such an action as early as possible,” he said. “It could be a very different perpetrator.”Despite the shock that a single person was able to agitate and alarm the country’s political establishment, Mr. Münch pointed out that many young people had committed crimes from computers in their bedrooms, citing examples of teens who had been caught selling weapons or drugs over the “dark web,” areas of the internet hidden from the view of most users.Dirk Engling, spokesman for the Chaos Computer Club, a German collective of hackers, said the hack itself wasn’t technically difficult, but required a great deal of patience in order to learn the necessary passwords.He listed previous examples in Germany of such hacks where an individual’s private information was stolen for the purposes of publishing online, known in the tech world as “doxxing,” but pointed out that they had largely gone ignored by policymakers.“Now that they have been snatched from their online accounts, suddenly it seems to have changed some minds,” Mr. Engling said.The authorities said that on learning of the breaches on Jan. 3, they immediately began coordinating efforts to find the source and request that Twitter take down the offending account, which happened the following morning.The Twitter account announced in November that the leaks were coming, and on Dec. 1 it began posting the data, but apparently few people noticed until weeks later. The authorities said they were still evaluating hard drives and personal papers confiscated in a raid on the man’s home.Of the nearly 1,000 people whose information was leaked, 949 were politicians, roughly half of them from the governing Christian Democratic Union, Mr. Münch said. While some of the information published was already public, there were 116 cases of personal documents that were illegally made public, he said.Opposition lawmakers and members of Ms. Nahles’ S.P.D., which governs in a coalition with the Christian Democrats, have criticized the country’s cybersecurity office and Mr. Seehofer for failing to discover the incursion earlier. The hacker released the information through links and passwords posted on Twitter in the form of an Advent calendar, where a window is opened each day leading up to Christmas, revealing a treat.Early postings involved the personal information of rappers, journalists and YouTube video bloggers, but from Dec. 20, information on members of five of the six political parties with seats in the German Parliament was released. It was not clear why AfD politicians were spared.The attack raised new questions about whether the government had structures in place to adequately help users safeguard their computers and sensitive personal information.Katarina Barley, the justice minister, said her office was looking into whether it made sense to further tighten the country’s already strict privacy laws, or those requiring software providers and companies running internet platforms to respond more swiftly to requests for data to be taken down.“We are examining whether tightening the laws would make sense or be necessary,” Ms. Barley said. She and Mr. Seehofer encouraged Germans to use strong passwords, avoid using the same password for multiple accounts and two-step verification to access to their online accounts as their best.“It can happen anywhere,” said Mr. Engling said of hacks on personal information. “It’s easy to always blame the Chinese and Russia, but using private email for business or political matters makes you susceptible.”Follow Melissa Eddy on Twitter: @meddynyt.Adam Satariano contributed reporting from London.

Supported byBy Keith Bradsher and Katrin BennholdDAVOS, Switzerland — Leaders of Japan, South Africa, China and Germany issued a series of calls on Wednesday for global oversight of the tech sector, in a clear signal of growing international interest in seizing greater regulatory supervision of an industry led by the United States.Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan said his country would use its chairmanship of the Group of 20 nations this year to push forward a new international system for the oversight of how data is used. Data governance will be the theme when the group’s presidents and prime ministers gather in June in Osaka for their annual summit meeting.The emphasis will be on expanding World Trade Organization rules to encompass trade in data as well as goods and services, he said. “I would like Osaka G20 to be long remembered as the summit that started worldwide data governance,” Mr. Abe said in a speech at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland.Mr. Abe’s proposal was echoed in remarks by other world leaders at the forum. President Cyril Ramaphosa of South Africa said greater oversight of the tech sector would also be on the agenda of African Union leaders when they meet early next month in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.“When it comes to technology, I would support an overarching body that’ll set standards on a whole range of things,” Mr. Ramaphosa said in an interview, specifically mentioning cybersecurity as a priority.Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany called in a speech for a “common digital market” in the European Union. She said international oversight of data usage was needed to head off opposition to the entire tech sector from those who fear the current pace of technological change.Speaking after Ms. Merkel, Vice President Wang Qishan of China also cited a need for more international coordination in oversight of the tech sector, but did not mention personal privacy. In what appeared to be an oblique reference to the Chinese government’s close ties to that country’s tech sector, which involves extensive surveillance of civil society, Mr. Wang emphasized that each country should also be free to set some of its own policies.“We need to respect the independent choices of model of technology management and of public policies made by countries, and their right to participate in the global technological governance system as equals,” said Mr. Wang.The remarks by the four leaders did not appear to represent a coordinated effort to push forward a new international architecture for oversight of the tech sector. Nor were they consistent in citing which tech sectors might merit further international rules.There was no consensus on what a global architecture might look like.The United States has largely deferred to the tech behemoths of Silicon Valley, which have favored some kind of international understanding among governments on data standards, but want those standards to impose few restrictions on how companies use that data.European governments have advocated much greater limits on how companies can use data, notably through the European Union’s imposition last May of strict data privacy rules, the General Data Protection Regulation.China has not accepted any limits on the government’s ability to access people’s personal information. The Chinese government has wide access to electronic communications and employs indoor and outdoor facial recognition and other monitoring and people-tracking technology.The rapid spread of digital technology in daily life and the implications that has on the future of work and data security will require more international cooperation, not less, Ms. Merkel said. But she acknowledged that nobody knows how to write the rules.Neither the American nor the Chinese approach would work for Europeans, who place a high value on privacy and social justice, Ms. Merkel said.“I still have yet to see any global architecture that deals with these questions,” she said.Mr. Abe said Japan wanted to move fast on data governance during its leadership this year of the Group of 20. But he provided only a general indication of what a new architecture might look like.“We must, on one hand, be able to put our personal data and data embodying intellectual property, national security intelligence, and so on, under careful protection, while on the other hand, we must enable the free flow of medical, industrial, traffic and other most useful, non-personal, anonymous data to see no borders, repeat, no borders,” he said.Mr. Abe suggested that the world look for a way to broaden W.T.O. rules. The W.T.O. already regulates some kinds of telecommunications services as part of its rule-setting for international trade in goods and services.Chancellor Merkel of Germany specifically listed the need for ethical standards in artificial intelligence and genetic engineering, and the handling and ownership of data, as three areas that would require particular attention. An announcement by a Chinese doctor that he had edited the genes of a human baby has stirred international interest in genetic engineering. China has quickly shut down the medical program that produced the baby and the doctor himself has been put under guard at a guesthouse at his university in southeastern China.Europe, and Germany in particular, have emerged as the de facto regulators of the technology sector, exerting influence beyond their own borders. Berlin’s digital crackdown on hate speech, which took effect last year, is being closely watched by other countries.But if the Continent wanted to continue to take a leading role in shaping international data standards, it would also have to become “an important actor” in the industry itself, Ms. Merkel said.Africa presents further issues for designing any global system for the oversight of data or for the tech sector overall. It has emerged as a tech Wild West, with very few rules, varying by country.With lavish financing from state-owned Chinese banks under President Xi Jinping’s Belt and Road Initiative, Chinese telecommunications companies like Huawei and ZTE have been building extensive mobile phone and data switching networks across Africa. Privacy issues are starting to surface in Africa as well.Mr. Ramaphosa said the African Union needed to act in concert with the international community.“Africa as a whole should for itself begin to see whether there should be standards that we should all adhere to so that, in the end, we do not have an exclusive type of architecture, which excludes smaller countries, less well-endowed countries financially,” he said in the interview.The Trump administration has imposed increasing restrictions on exports of tech products to China. The administration has also sought to discourage countries around the world from buying telecommunications equipment from Huawei, particularly for advanced 5G mobile communications networks. It has suggested that Huawei may be linked to Chinese intelligence and to the shipments of American gear to Iran in violation of United States sanctions. Huawei has denied these claims.Canada has detained the chief financial officer of Huawei, Meng Wanzhou, in response to a warrant from the United States. The Trump administration is preparing to make a formal extradition request for Ms. Meng within the next week.Vice President Wang appeared to push back against the United States’ overall stance on tech issues.“It is imperative to respect national sovereignty and refrain from seeking technological hegemony, interfering in other countries’ domestic affairs and conducting, shielding or protecting technology-enabled activities that undermine other countries’ national security,” he said.Follow Keith Bradsher on Twitter: @KeithBradsher.Mark Landler contributed reporting.

Supported byTech FixA.I. that responds to your voice. Next-generation wireless networks. If this year’s biggest consumer technology trends have a familiar ring, there’s a reason for that. By Brian X. ChenImagine a future where you are never truly alone. Even when your spouse is on a business trip or your children are away at summer camp, you will always have someone (or something) to talk to. In the morning, you could ask the microwave to heat up a bowl of oatmeal. In your car, you could tell your stereo to put on some ’90s music. And when you walk into the office, you could ask your smartphone, “What’s on my calendar today?”This is increasingly the world the tech industry is building with a bloating portfolio of devices that can react to voice commands — and that the companies will be pitching to you even more in 2019. The future will be on display next week at CES, a consumer electronics trade show in Las Vegas that serves as a window into the year’s hottest tech trends. Artificially intelligent virtual assistants will take center stage as the most important tech topic, with companies big and small expected to showcase voice-controlled devices like robot vacuums, alarm clocks, refrigerators and car accessories. Most of these products will be powered by Amazon’s Alexa or Google’s Assistant, the two most popular artificially intelligent assistants, industry insiders said.“A.I. will pervade the show,” said Gary Shapiro, chief executive of the Consumer Technology Association, which owns CES. If this all sounds like a repeat of last year, that’s because much of it is. Artificial intelligence was 2018’s hottest tech trend, too. In other words, the tech industry is in a state of iteration rather than making leaps and bounds with something totally new. Other tech trends that are progressing include the debut this year of fifth-generation cellular networks, known as 5G, which will significantly quicken mobile internet speeds. Cybersecurity products for home networks are also proliferating, an important safeguard now that consumers own so many devices that can connect to the internet.But as is often the case, there will also be plenty of talk in the coming week about overly optimistic tech that you would do best to sidestep for now. That’s because some of the most hyped technologies — especially self-driving cars — are so far from reality that you won’t see them in stores or dealerships anytime soon.Here’s what to watch, and what to avoid.In 2015, Amazon birthed the Echo, the artificially intelligent speaker featuring the virtual assistant known as Alexa. A year later, Google responded with Home, its smart speaker powered by Google’s own digital companion, called Assistant. Since then, in a bid to become your go-to digital companion, the two tech giants have teamed up with makers of devices like thermostats, doorbells, light bulbs and car accessories to add their virtual assistants to them.Google is expected to be even more aggressive this year with its Assistant. The company will triple the size of its presence at CES this year, suggesting that it is likely to unveil a large array of products that work with Assistant.“We’re really leaning into the Assistant as the best way to get things done, helping you for lots of things as you go about your day,” said Nick Fox, a Google executive who oversees Assistant.Amazon said it would also showcase a wide range of technologies that work with Alexa next week, as part of a vision it calls Alexa Everywhere. The company’s goal is to expand the reach of its virtual assistant into every part of people’s lives, including the kitchen, the living room, the office and the car. For you and me, here’s a cautionary note: Virtual assistants are still in their infancy and have many shortcomings. We have to speak a very specific command to trigger a virtual assistant to control a device, like setting the temperature on a thermostat or turning on a lamp. Those unfamiliar with the lingo may find the devices even more difficult to use than pressing a button inside an app.“We still have to learn their language, and they have not learned our language,” said Frank Gillett, a tech analyst for Forrester, a technology research company.Lost in the hype about virtual assistants is whether people truly want an omnipresent companion involved in their everyday tasks. Owners of smart speakers mostly summoned digital assistants for basic functions like listening to music, checking the weather and setting a timer, according to research by Nielsen last year.Plenty of people install antivirus software on their computers. But what about all the other devices that can be connected to the internet, like smart watches, phones, televisions and speakers? In an era of smart things, the Wi-Fi router is becoming a bigger target for hackers, so expect a flood of new equipment and software that offer protection by improving your network security.For a sense of what to expect, consider Eero Plus, a subscription service that Eero, a maker of Wi-Fi equipment, released last year. Eero Plus includes protection against viruses and malware for all the devices connected to its Wi-Fi network. Last year, NetGear released NetGear Armor, a similar security service.More should follow this year — beginning next week at CES, where Scalys, a networking company, plans to introduce TrustBox, a router with built-in security features.This year, the wireless industry will begin a big upgrade to its infrastructure. Phone carriers like AT&amp;T and Verizon Wireless say the 5G technology will deliver data at incredibly fast speeds, allowing people to download entire movies in a few seconds.In addition to increasing smartphone speeds, 5G will be important for other types of devices, like robots, self-driving cars, drones and security cameras. The technology is expected to greatly reduce latency, or the time it takes for devices to communicate with one another.But don’t get too excited. Carriers say the new network technology will be deployed this year in only a few cities in the United States, and in some parts of Britain, Germany, Switzerland, China, South Korea and Australia. And not many smartphones will be compatible with 5G initially. Some Chinese handset makers and Samsung Electronics have said they will release their first 5G smartphones this year. Apple is not expected to release a 5G-compatible iPhone until 2020.“For the early adopters with deep pockets, that’s great,” Mr. Gillett said. “For the rest of us, big whoop.”Virtual reality and self-driving cars have been talked about a lot in recent years, and they will still be talked about this year. But these two technologies are still nascent or premature.Over the last two years, tech companies like Facebook’s Oculus, HTC, Google and Samsung have flooded the market with virtual reality headsets and plenty of software and games. Yet people have not exactly embraced the products.“The industry has been plagued by high-cost hardware, motion sickness, a dearth of compelling content and a general lack of consumer interest,” said Victoria Petrock, an analyst for the research firm eMarketer, in a recent post.Self-driving cars are also still many years from becoming mainstream. Even though some companies have permits to test autonomous cars in California, Arizona and elsewhere, several of the leaders in the technology — such as Alphabet’s Waymo — have refrained from committing to a release date for self-driving vehicles.“There’s going to be a lot of noise about automotive technology, but nothing distinct or specific,” Mr. Gillett said. Brian X. Chen is the lead consumer technology writer. He reviews products and writes Tech Fix, a column about solving tech-related problems. Before joining The Times in 2011 he reported on Apple and the wireless industry for Wired.  @bxchen 

Supported bynews analysisJulián Castro wants to make that case.By Amy ChozickMs. Chozick is a writer at large for The New York Times.Last month, when Julián Castro filed the requisite paperwork to run for president, he had to add an accent over the a in Julián by hand. The Federal Election Commission apparently hadn’t planned for a candidate with a Spanish name.It’s one of the many ways his candidacy as the only (so far) Latino in the Democratic 2020 field will make the country contemplate its future. Mr. Castro knows that he is the longest of long shots, but he is nothing if not a product of his hometown, San Antonio — an often underestimated, predominantly Hispanic, American microcosm.In recent years, some commentators on the right have expressed fear about what a “majority minority” country would look like. The answer is that it would most likely look a lot like San Antonio, where 64 percent of the city’s 1.4 million residents are Hispanic and unemployment is below the national average. After serving as mayor of San Antonio from 2009 to 2014, Mr. Castro, 44, became the secretary of housing and urban development under Barack Obama. But his strongest selling point as an antidote to President Trump and his immigrant bashing might be his runty, but wildly successful, experiment of a hometown.“At this time when the nation feels so polarized, I saw exactly the opposite in my community,” Mr. Castro told me. “A place where people of different backgrounds generally got along very well together.”San Antonio, 150 miles north of the Mexican border and 80 miles south of Austin, is a petri dish of the country’s future. It’s a place where wage growth has surpassed the national average, housing is 13 percent cheaper than the national average and those who earn the median household income of $56,774 can get a single-family home, access to a good public education and tickets to the occasional Spurs game.The low cost of living and the healthy economy, bolstered by jobs in tech and cybersecurity, have made San Antonio the fastest-growing city in the country for the past several years, and given it the nation’s second-fastest-growing population of millennials, according to the Brookings Institution. The number of residents is expected to double in the next 20 years, with 66 people added daily, according to census data.Julián and his twin brother, Joaquin, who is a Democratic congressman representing the 20th District of Texas, graduated from San Antonio’s public schools several years before I did. Tales of the overachieving twins were local folklore. Their images are painted on the walls of the Pico de Gallo Tex-Mex restaurant and in a mural at Mi Tierra Cafe y Panaderia, along with that of the slain Tejano singer Selena.We share the same scrappy underdog attitude that comes with being from San Antonio, a working-class city flanked by military bases and overshadowed by Austin, its ritzier and (in my unpopular opinion) insufferable neighbor. The seventh-largest city in the country by population, San Antonio sprawls across 465 square miles of craggy terrain of mesquite trees and cactuses, giving it an unpretentious, small-town feel.New Yorkers mostly know it as being the home of the Alamo. Sometimes they’ll say to me, “Oh, isn’t there a river there?” To which, I usually joke that, yes, as a matter of fact, it is the Venice of Texas. (It is nothing like Venice.) Even when the Spurs racked up national N.B.A. championships, the coastal sports media dismissed them as boring. (Luckily, another local hero, Coach Gregg Popovich, is around to belittle said national media.)“We’re not Houston or Dallas, we don’t boast,” said Leticia Van de Putte, a San Antonio native and former state senator who ran for lieutenant governor of Texas in 2014. “We never give ourselves the ‘atta boys’ or ‘atta girls,’ it’s not in our nature.” If you spend enough time in San Antonio, it’s hard not to run into one of the Castro brothers. (“Half the time they think I’m my brother,” Julián Castro said). When we were both back home, Mr. Castro and I usually caught up over tacos, so, just before Christmas, when he was in New York, I met him at La Esquina, a taqueria in Midtown.“Not as good as Texas, but not bad,” Mr. Castro said, a cautious politician’s verdict on the $4.99 barbacoa tacos that we both knew would have been fluffier and cost 99 cents in San Antonio.We spent the first few minutes catching up on local gossip — a mutual friend; The San Antonio Express-News holding a grudge because he didn’t give it an exclusive about his plans to run. (“They put my story in the Metro section!”)When asked by reporters why he was running, given that he hardly registers in the national polls, Mr. Castro talked about his hometown. “I said, ‘Go to my neighborhood that I grew up in — nobody was the front-runner there,’” he recalled. Mr. Castro will base his campaign in San Antonio, starting with a kickoff rally next Saturday.Until recently, San Antonio was reliably red, but like much of the Southwest, it has been transformed into a battleground by its young and Latino population, bad news for Republicans fearing an increasingly purple Texas. In the midterms, every major statewide candidate, including Senator Ted Cruz and his Democratic opponent, Beto O’Rourke, poured resources into winning San Antonio.“Julián’s rising to the national stage is really symbolic of San Antonio’s trajectory” — and, by extension, the country’s, said Jenna Saucedo-Herrera, president and chief executive of the San Antonio Economic Development Foundation.Part of Mr. Castro’s candidacy will be educating voters about what it means to be an acculturated Mexican-American, identifying not with Mexico or “los gringos,” but as a uniquely American, comfortably hyphenated blend of the two.After writing in the accent on his F.E.C. paperwork, Mr. Castro talked briefly with local reporters in the little yellow living room of his house on San Antonio’s Northwest Side. The political press jumped on the painting of the Virgin of Guadalupe that hung behind Mr. Castro — a sign he would be appealing to Latino voters! — but Mr. Castro just calls that his living room. It infuriates Mr. Castro that Republicans knock him for not speaking fluent Spanish. “There’s a stinging irony in that these people were saying you weren’t good enough before because you didn’t speak English well enough, and today, somehow you’re not good enough because you don’t speak Spanish well enough?” he said. In 1922, Mr. Castro’s maternal grandmother emigrated from Coahuila, Mexico, to Eagle Pass, Tex., and worked as a maid. Like many children of immigrants, his mother, Rosie Castro, a civil rights activist and single mom, raised her own children to speak English.For all its growth, San Antonio remains starkly divided by income. Mr. Castro’s wife, Erica Lira Castro, works in the Harlandale Independent School District on the city’s South Side, where one in five people live below the poverty line and where she grew up.Mr. Castro went from Jefferson High School, with a 95 percent Hispanic student body, to degrees from Stanford and Harvard Law. But we both are sometimes snubbed back home for not having attended Alamo Heights High School, the public school on the city’s wealthier side of town. It’s become this running joke.In December, I asked Mr. Castro if he thought the joke would stick, now that he is preparing to run for president, and ready to make the case that San Antonio should be this country’s future. He has accomplished so much already, we both laughed, without Alamo Heights. “Oh, well,” he said. “Imagine what I could’ve been.”Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.A previous version of this article misstated the school district where Erica Lira Castro teaches. It is the Harlandale Independent School District, not the Harlingen Consolidated Independent School District.Amy Chozick is a New York-based writer at large for The Times.   @amychozick • Facebook 

Supported byBy Scott Shane and Alan BlinderThe “Dry Alabama” Facebook page, illustrated with stark images of car wrecks and videos of families ruined by drink, had a blunt message: Alcohol is the devil’s work, and the state should ban it entirely.Along with a companion Twitter feed, the Facebook page appeared to be the work of Baptist teetotalers who supported the Republican, Roy S. Moore, in the 2017 Alabama Senate race. “Pray for Roy Moore,” one tweet exhorted.In fact, the Dry Alabama campaign, not previously reported, was the stealth creation of progressive Democrats who were out to defeat Mr. Moore — the second such secret effort to be unmasked. In a political bank shot made in the last two weeks of the campaign, they thought associating Mr. Moore with calls for a statewide alcohol ban would hurt him with moderate, business-oriented Republicans and assist the Democrat, Doug Jones, who won the special election by a hair-thin margin.Matt Osborne, a veteran progressive activist who worked on the project, said he hoped that such deceptive tactics would someday be banned from American politics. But in the meantime, he said, he believes that Republicans are using such trickery and that Democrats cannot unilaterally give it up.“If you don’t do it, you’re fighting with one hand tied behind your back,” said Mr. Osborne, a writer and consultant who lives outside Florence, Ala. “You have a moral imperative to do this — to do whatever it takes.”The discovery of Dry Alabama, the second so-called false flag operation by Democrats in the fiercely contested Alabama race, underscores how dirty tricks on social media are creeping into American politics. The New York Times reported last month on a separate project that used its own bogus conservative Facebook page and sent a horde of Russian-looking Twitter accounts to follow Mr. Moore’s to make it appear as if he enjoyed Russian support.The revelations about the first project, run in part by a cybersecurity company called New Knowledge, led Facebook to shut down five accounts that it said had violated its rules, and prompted Senator Jones to call for a federal investigation. There is no evidence that Mr. Jones encouraged or knew of either of the deceptive social media projects. His spokeswoman, Heather Fluit, said his legal advisers were preparing to file a formal complaint with the Federal Election Commission.Both Alabama projects were devised shortly after the exposure of the full dimensions of Russia’s fraudulent use of social media in the 2016 presidential race, when thousands of Facebook and Twitter accounts posed as Americans. Because the Russian operation attacked Hillary Clinton and helped Donald J. Trump, Democrats have spoken out most vehemently against it.So some Democrats were discomfited by the revelation that the first of the Alabama efforts was explicitly devised to try out the tactics of the Russian operation, according to an internal report on the project obtained by The Times. Rather than Russians working in St. Petersburg posing as Americans, this time Democrats — most of them far from Alabama — pretended to be conservative state residents.The first of the Alabama efforts was funded by Reid Hoffman, the billionaire co-founder of LinkedIn, who apologized and said he had been unaware of the project and did not approve of the underhanded methods. The second was funded by two Virginia donors who wanted to defeat Mr. Moore — a former judge accused of pursuing sexual relationships with underage girls — according to a participant who would speak about the secret project only on the condition of anonymity and who declined to name the funders.The two projects each received $100,000, funneled in both cases through the same organization: Investing in Us, which finances political operations in support of progressive causes. Dmitri Mehlhorn, the group’s managing partner, declined to comment on whether he approved of the tactics he had helped pay for. But after the Times report in December, he acknowledged, in a post on the online forum Medium, a “concern that our tactics might cause us to become like those we are fighting.” He declared that “some tactics are beyond the pale.”Another organizer of the project, according to two participants, was Evan Coren, a progressive activist who works for the National Archives unit that handles classified documents. He did not respond to requests for comment. Beth Becker, a social media trainer and consultant in Washington who handled Facebook ad spending for the Dry Alabama page and the project’s other Facebook page, called Southern Caller, said in an interview that a nondisclosure agreement prohibited her from saying much about the project.But, she added, “I don’t think anything this group did crossed any lines.”That may be true in the sense that neither law nor regulations set any clear limits on social media activity in elections. “The law has clearly not caught up with social media,” Ms. Becker said.But there is no doubt that the progressive Democrats who created the now-defunct Facebook pages — and the related Twitter feeds, seeming afterthoughts with negligible reach — were trying to deceive voters about their identities and real views. “Re-enact Prohibition and make Alabama dry again!” said one post. “Democrats continue to put party before country,” said another.Facebook’s community standards, which were tightened in 2018, emphasize “authenticity” and prohibit “misrepresentation,” including coordinated efforts to “mislead people about the origin of content.”Political social media trickery of this sort is usually well hidden and hard to detect without help from an insider, so it’s difficult to say how common it has become. Some political veterans warn that without new laws or regulations explicitly outlawing fraudulent social media tactics, both parties may feel pressure to use them simply to stay competitive.There were at least two more social media operations intended to help Mr. Jones’s campaign, run by small companies called Tovo Labs and Dialectica. Neither responded to queries about their tactics. A public account by Tovo Labs of its effort described setting up websites for Christian conservatives and moderate conservatives but claimed all the content was “legitimate material” and its methods “ethical.” A pitch to potential customers from Dialectica offers “a new generation of information weapons” to battle “fake news,” and a marketing email shared with The Times says the company worked in the Alabama race’s “meme war” for at least three months.Mr. Osborne, who said he helped conceive the Dry Alabama project and wrote for the Southern Caller page, said the effort began in conversations with acquaintances from his years at the annual Netroots Nation progressive gatherings. They discussed what tactics might help Mr. Jones’s chances and zeroed in on tensions within the Republican Party over whether drinking should be permitted in Alabama, where the number of dry counties had dwindled.“Business conservatives favor wet; culture-war conservatives favor dry,” he said. “That gave us an idea.”Essentially, the aim was to frighten the business conservatives — who could be targeted with ads using Facebook’s tools — with the potential implications of a Moore victory. Some ideas were nixed by organizers: A raffle of an AR-15 assault rifle was out, Mr. Osborne was told, as was outright homophobic language.“I learned that if you’re doing a false-flag conservative page for a liberal donor, there are limits,” he said. But he said he enjoyed mimicking the voices of his conservative opponents who dominate in the state.By the time the project got funding, there were only two weeks left in the race. With salaries needed only briefly, about 80 percent of the $100,000 went toward Facebook ads.Elizabeth BeShears, a Republican communications consultant from Birmingham, was amused when she spotted a Dry Alabama ad on Facebook demanding that candidates pledge to try to ban drinking, because her husband’s family had strongly supported a recent effort to turn a county “wet.”She assumed the Dry Alabama ads were aimed at anti-alcohol conservatives, and posted on Twitter a screenshot of the Facebook ad with the remark, “Y’all’s targeting is so wrong.” In fact, Mr. Osborne said, Ms. BeShears was the perfect target for the ads. She voted for Mr. Jones out of disgust for Mr. Moore, though she didn’t need the Dry Alabama ad to persuade her, she said.Mr. Osborne said the stats he was given on the reach of the brief Facebook operation were impressive: 4.6 million views of the Facebook posts, and 97,000 engagements — for instance, “liking” or sharing posts. Simple videos pushing the Dry Alabama message were watched 430,000 times, he said.Given Mr. Jones’s slender margin of victory — about 22,000 votes, out of more than 1.3 million — it is hard to say for sure that Dry Alabama had no impact. But many other independent efforts were at play on both sides, and the amount spent on the two false flag projects was relatively tiny in a race that cost at least $51 million, including the primaries.Ms. BeShears said she doubted the Dry Alabama effort had had a significant effect on the outcome, in part because Mr. Moore was seen as a toxic candidate and Alabamians had long harbored strong views about him. By the time the project was carried out, few voters were undecided, she said.“I don’t think most people saw it and thought that’s a reason to vote or not to vote for Roy Moore,” she said. “The only people who were still hanging on to the Roy Moore bandwagon were going to be there no matter what. Whether you’re still going to be able to drink a beer at your tailgate was not going to sway them.”

Supported byGood Wednesday morning. Welcome to the first working day of the new year. Want this by email? Sign up here.Last year was an unexpectedly bad year for the stock market. But Wall Street’s top stock pickers are expecting gains in 2019. Still, there is plenty that could go wrong and upend those forecasts, the NYT’s Peter Eavis and Guilbert Gates write.Here’s a look:Borrowing costs: The Fed increased its target rate four times in 2018, and fears that the central bank would raise interest rates too much and send a chill through the American economy weighed heavily on stocks in 2018. If investors don’t see signs that the economy is growing steadily, they could hang on the Fed’s every move, and monetary policy meeting, this year.President Trump: Investors were mostly tolerant in early 2108 of Mr. Trump’s unpredictable declarations on Twitter. But as the trade war with China escalated, his proclamations began to make investors jumpy. And it wasn’t just the tweets about China: The president also roiled the markets with criticism of the Fed. Mr. Trump is now the top concern that keeps investors up at night.Global growth: Large overseas economies — China, Japan and the European Union — appear to be taking a turn for the worse. Growth may accelerate if trade agreements are forged in 2019. But the problems could run deeper. China’s methods for pulling itself out of an economic rut  are probably not as effective as they once were, and Europe could be hit hard if Britain crashes out of the European Union.Tech stocks: Companies like Amazon, Apple, Facebook and Netflix helped push the S&amp;P 500 and Nasdaq to records. But when some those companies dipped, they dragged the indexes down with them. The market’s fate depends in large part on whether investors fall back in love with large technology companies.What has to go right? The U.S. economy needs to grow strongly, the Fed needs to tread a delicate middle ground, the trade war needs to wind down, and the economies of Europe and China need to stabilize.More on markets: Retail investors are trying to hold on despite the intense volatility. As the great unwind continues, markets are at increased risk of experiencing “doom loops.” Analysts have been trimming their earnings forecasts since September, and investors are worried the outlook for companies will deteriorate further.New data showing weakening factory activity in China is amplifying concerns about the health of the global economy and driving down stocks across Asia.• The Caixin/Markit manufacturing purchasing managers index for China sank last month to 49.7, falling below the 50 mark that represents contraction for the first time since May 2017. The slide, reported today, followed similarly gloomy results on Monday from the Chinese government. The sense of impending malaise spread elsewhere in Asia, with production activity in Malaysia and Taiwan shrinking to its slowest pace in years.• The Hang Seng Index in Hong Kong responded by falling nearly 2.8 percent on the first trading day of 2019. The Shanghai composite index slipped 1.15 percent. In Australia, the S&amp;P/ASX 200 was down 1.6 percent. S&amp;P futures also took a hit.• Stocks have been shaky as investors fret about trade tensions between China and the U.S., the Fed’s position on interest rates, and intensifying predictions of waning economic growth around the world.• Employees at Baidu received a letter today from Robin Li, the chief executive of the Chinese technology company, warning that “winter is coming.” In the note, reported by the South China Morning Post, Mr. Li wrote that economic restructuring was “as cold and real as winter to every company.”____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin and Stephen Grocer in New York, and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________With talks between China and the United States set to begin this week in Beijing, Robert Lighthizer, the United States trade representative, faces the assignment of a lifetime: redefining the trade relationship between the world’s two largest economies by March 2.But first, writes Glenn Thrush in the NYT, “Mr. Lighthizer will need to keep a mercurial president from wavering in the face of queasy financial markets, which have suffered their steepest annual decline since 2008. Despite his declaration that trade wars are ‘easy to win’ and his recent boast that he is a ‘Tariff Man,’ Mr. Trump is increasingly eager to reach a deal that will help calm the markets, which he views as a political electrocardiogram of his presidency.”After 40 years of dealing with China and watching its government dangle promises that do not materialize, Mr. Lighthizer remains deeply skeptical of Beijing and has warned Mr. Trump that the United States may need to exert more pressure through additional tariffs to win true concessions.Silicon Valley was embattled in 2018. With lawmakers saying Big Tech has too much power and regulation looming, it might seem like a good time for companies like Alphabet, Amazon and Facebook to lie low. That is not the path they are taking, writes the NYT’s David Streitfeld. In fact, Big Tech’s dizzying expansion is barely getting started.Tech companies are competing to own the cloud and become, in essence, the internet’s landlord. Google made a deal in 2017 to reimagine a chunk of waterfront Toronto from the ground up. Amazon is adding warehouses in rural areas to provide urban dwellers with everything they need to stay home. For those who venture out, driverless cars will be operated by Big Tech. And the companies are plunging further into artificial intelligence.To accomplish all this, Big Tech needs hundreds of thousands of new employees. Google is bulking up in New York and Amazon is planning satellite offices in New York and Washington. Even in Silicon Valley, the boom is accelerating. Last spring Facebook leased one million square feet in Sunnyvale, Calif., for its fast-growing community operations team.More on tech: Mark Zuckerberg admits in a New Year’s post that he is facing an uphill battle to fix Facebook. And 2019 is tech’s chance to make it right.The Commerce Department is mulling export restrictions on artificial intelligence, citing the technology’s importance to national security. But Silicon Valley insiders say the potential rules could short-circuit U.S. competitiveness in an industry built largely by Americans, reports the NYT’s Cade Metz.The news: In November, the U.S. government included computer vision, speech recognition and other artificial intelligence categories on a list of “emerging and foundational technologies” being considered for export restrictions. The rules could limit or block exports to countries such as China, whose tactics toward American technology have been criticized by the Trump administration as bullying or illegal.Why it matters: Tech experts are nervous that restrictions could stifle American innovation in the field while increasing development of A.I. technology abroad, especially in Asia. The public comment period closes on Jan. 10.Spencer Neumann is expected to join Netflix as its chief financial officer early in 2019, according to Reuters and the WSJ. He was put on paid leave by Activision Blizzard, where he held the same role, and will be fired, though the video game company did not give a reason.The long-planned ascent of Chung Euisun to the top of Hyundai Motor Group continues with a New Year’s speech he delivered to employees today in place of Chung Mong-Koo, his father and the current chairman of the Korean automotive conglomerate. (FT)Deals• Over the last few years, Blackstone, Carlyle, CVC and other private equity firms have started funds that can own companies for 15 years or longer. (WSJ)• Martin Bandier, the chief executive of Sony/ATV, the world’s largest music publisher, says the music industry is ripe for consolidation. (FT)• The Chinese gold miner Zijin Mining Group plans to sell new shares worth up to 8 billion yuan, or $1.16 billion, in Shanghai to help finance its purchase of Nevsun Resources of Canada. (Reuters)Politics and Policy• The U.S. will get its first taste of divided government under President Trump, as Democrats take a majority the House. The question is, who will control the agenda? (NYT)• How Joe Biden has paved the way for a possible presidential run in 2020. (NYT)• Democratic lawmakers plan to push ahead this year with an infrastructure package, an issue that both parties might support. (FT)Tech• A new cybersecurity law in Vietnam puts stringent controls on technology companies operating inside the country and censors what its citizens read online. (NPR)• Fortnite was very good to Tyler Blevins in 2018. Mr. Blevins, a 27-year-old professional video gamer known as Ninja, said his 94,958 Fortnite kills had helped him earn close to $10 million last year. (CNN)• Didi Chuxing, the Chinese ride-sharing start-up, has begun offering a suite of financial products, including crowdfunding and lending, as it continues to diversify outside of its core business. (Reuters)• Erik Prince, who founded the security company Blackwater, is starting a fund that will raise up to $500 million to invest in metals used for electric-vehicle batteries. (FT)Best of the Rest• Four cases in December show why insider trading will remain a focus for federal prosecutors and regulators. (NYT)• Allergan raised prices on more than two dozen pharmaceutical products by nearly 10 percent, as drugmakers increased prices on hundreds of medicines in the U.S. this week. (WSJ)• Denmark’s government is looking to strengthen the Financial Supervisory Authority, its financial regulator, following concerns about its handling of the Danske Bank money laundering scandal. (FT)• Hedge-fund managers like David Einhorn, whose Greenlight Capital closed out 2018 with its biggest-ever annual loss, are struggling to prove that they can beat the market and are worth their high fees. For many, this will be a make-or-break year. (WSJ)• Major perks for customers like air miles and cash back were meant to lead to higher returns for retail banks. But consumers figured out how to game the system. Now banks are seeking ways to keep customers happy while cutting extras. (WSJ)• Netflix removed an episode of a show featuring the comedian Hasan Minhaj that focused on Saudi Arabia’s role in the killing of the journalist Jamal Khashoggi. The internet streaming service, which took down the content after receiving a complaint from the kingdom, now faces concerns about freedom of expression online. (FT)• Cash begone: The value of Chinese mobile payments more than doubled to $17 trillion in 2017, even as China’s central bank penalizes merchants who do not accept bills and coins. (FT)• American companies raised prices in 2016 to bolster their profits, but in doing so also transferred three percentage points of national income to wealthy families from lower-income households, according to new research. (WaPo)• Showtime’s fictional series “Black Monday,” premiering on Jan. 20, features a group of traders who ride the surging stock market in the 1980s and then suffer its 1987 crash. To present-day Wall Street, it feels familiar and possibly prophetic. (WaPo)• Jeff Bezos, Mark Zuckerberg, Jack Ma: Which billionaires won in 2018, and which lost? (Bloomberg)• Chesapeake Energy shifted its focus to oil from natural gas just in time for oil prices to tumble 40 percent since October. One board member feels “snakebitten.” (WSJ)• Bitcoin slumped about 70 percent in 2018, erasing $160 billion of digital wealth in a move that demonstrated the instability of the cryptocurrency market. (WSJ)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.

Supported byGood Tuesday morning. (Was this email forwarded to you? Sign up here.)Silicon Valley is captivated by a new concept that could eliminate student debt, Andrew writes in his column.Students were saddled with $1.5 trillion in debt last year, a record high. An idea called Income Share Agreements has been talked about for years as a way to alleviate that burden. Under this system, tuition is free, but students agree to pay back a percentage of their income for several years if they get good jobs after graduation.Lambda School, an online learning start-up founded in 2017 with the backing of Y Combinator, has $30 million in funding today from venture capitalists to make the concept a reality.Andrew writes:The investments will be used to turn Lambda, which has focused on subjects like coding and data science, into a multidisciplinary school offering half-year programs in professions where there is significant hiring demand, like nursing and cybersecurity. It’s an expansion that could be a precursor to Lambda becoming a full-scale university.The Lambda model is being closely watched. It’s meant to treat students as investments rather than cash cows — and potentially lift their crippling debt load.But it also comes with risks.Programs seeking safe investments might reverse the strides made in expanding educational opportunities for higher-risk students; and institutions might move away from degrees that lead to noble, but lower compensated, professions.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin and Stephen Grocer in New York, and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________Senior Chinese officials offered to bail out the troubled Malaysian government fund known as 1MDB in exchange for deals, a WSJ investigation found. Documents and interviews with current and former Malaysian officials show some of the political forces at work behind China’s One Belt, One Road infrastructure initiative and the country’s efforts to strengthen its position overseas.Five takeaways from the investigation:• In secret meetings, Chinese officials told Malaysian officials that China would try to fend off investigations by the U.S. and other countries into multibillion-dollar fraud accusations at the fund.• The Chinese also offered to bug the homes and offices of WSJ reporters in Hong Kong.• Malaysian officials suggested that some of the infrastructure projects be financed at above-market rates to generate cash for other needs.• In return, Malaysia offered lucrative stakes in railway and pipeline projects.• The infrastructure deals made Malaysia the second-biggest recipient of One Belt, One Road funding after Pakistan.SoftBank is increasing its stake in WeWork, a bet on continued growth in co-working. But the investment is smaller than the one originally considered.The news: SoftBank is planning to invest $2 billion in WeWork, the leading co-working company, the NYT’s David Gelles reports. The money comes from the conglomerate itself, not from its nearly $100 billion Vision Fund. It values WeWork at $47 billion, and brings SoftBank’s total investment in the company to about $10.5 billion.What could have been: Under one possibility, SoftBank would have spent $10 billion to buy out all of WeWork’s other investors and injected $6 billion more in the company. Several factors led to a smaller deal, including market volatility and the reluctance of investors to sell shares to SoftBank.The back story: SoftBank, one of WeWork’s biggest boosters, has made multiple investments in the company. Much of its capital in WeWork is from the Vision Fund, which is largely backed by the Public Investment Fund of Saudi Arabia. But the relationship between SoftBank and WeWork is under growing scrutiny.Carlos Ghosn, in his first public appearance since being arrested in November, declared today that he was innocent of the allegations of financial wrongdoing that led to his ouster from the vast Nissan, Renault and Mitsubishi automaking alliance.Handcuffed, with a rope around his waist and plastic slippers on his feet, Mr. Ghosn told a packed courtroom in Tokyo that he had “always acted with integrity.” He added:“I have been wrongly accused and unfairly detained based on meritless and unsubstantiated accusations.”Mr. Ghosn, 64, a celebrity in Japan since pulling Nissan back from the brink nearly two decades ago, was arrested on Nov. 19 after arriving in Tokyo on a corporate jet. In jail, he has not spoken to his family, who believe he is the victim of a corporate coup, and he can be visited only by diplomats or his Japanese lawyer.He is accused of underreporting millions in compensation and improperly transferring personal losses to Nissan’s books. Nissan and Mitsubishi removed him as chairman; he remains chairman and chief executive of Renault. Today, he said:“I never received any compensation from Nissan that was not disclosed, nor did I ever enter into any binding contract with Nissan to be paid a fixed amount that was not disclosed.”In 2016, a report from two respected Ivy League economists found that on-call, freelance or contract-to-contract work was reshaping the U.S. job market — a change driven forward in part by platforms like Uber and Task Rabbit.Alan Krueger of Princeton and Lawrence Katz of Harvard said then that the gig economy accounted for nearly 16 percent of American workers in 2015, up from 10.7 percent a decade earlier.But yesterday, Mr. Krueger and Mr. Katz walked back their estimate, saying that the nontraditional slice of the labor market probably went up only one or two percentage points. And such work still takes a back seat to the standard single-employer job, according to more recent evidence, including a study from the Labor Department released last year.Why the disparity? Mr. Krueger and Mr. Katz say that:• After the recession, the labor market was on shaky ground. Workers needed odd jobs to stay afloat. But rather than shifting permanently to gig work, they returned to more stable, long-term roles once the economy recovered.• This gray layer of the work force, where people hold multiple jobs and move fluidly and frequently between them, is difficult to track. Survey designs differ from study to study and are often flawed.The drugmaking industry has seen a flurry of big moves recently:• Eli Lilly of Indianapolis said yesterday that it would shell out $8 billion in cash to purchase Loxo Oncology of Stamford, Conn., paying $235 per share, a 68 percent premium to Loxo’s closing price on Friday.• Takeda Pharmaceutical’s $62 billion purchase of Shire, an Irish biotechnology company focused on rare diseases, closed this week. The deal, by far the largest foreign takeover ever made by a Japanese firm, made the 237-year-old Takeda the world’s tenth-largest drugmaker by revenue.• Bristol-Myers Squibb said last week that it would buy Celgene, which makes the blockbuster Revlimid cancer medicine, for $74 billion.• GlaxoSmithKline said last month that it would pick up Tesaro, which makes an ovarian cancer drug, for $4.16 billion. In June, Eli Lilly closed a deal to buy Armo Biosciences and its immunotherapy cancer treatment for $1.6 billion.Jim Yong Kim has unexpectedly resigned as president of the World Bank. He was scheduled to serve until 2022, and his departure, effective Feb. 1, sets up a succession tussle between the U.S., which traditionally wields heavy influence over the process, and other governments. The bank, which has focused on combating climate change and promoting foreign aid, has clashed with the Trump administration. (NYT)Mick Davis, a British politician and the former head of the Xstrata mining company, is setting up a new mining venture, Niron Metals, with a former executive at the De Beers diamond company and a Swiss investment manager. (FT)Nellie Liang, the Brookings fellow and former Federal Reserve economist nominated by President Trump for a seat on the Fed’s board of governors, withdrew her candidacy. (NYT)AstraZeneca, the British-Swedish drugmaker, hired Dr. José Baselga as its head of research and development in oncology. Dr. Baselga resigned in September as the chief medical officer at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, and later from the board of Bristol-Myers Squibb, after failing to disclose conflicts of interest. (NYT)Deals• Clayton, Dubilier &amp; Rice, an American buyout firm, will take a stake in the British catering operator WSH Investments in a deal that some see as an endorsement of the British economy ahead of a Brexit vote next week. (WSJ)• The nearly $2.4 billion sale of Rowan Cos., an offshore driller, to rival Ensco, may have hit a snag. One of Rowan’s largest shareholders, the hedge fund Canyon Capital Advisors, said it would vote against the deal. Crude oil prices in the U.S. have sunk more than 30 percent since the deal was announced. (Reuters)Tech• The incoming governor of Connecticut, Ned Lamont, promises new jobs, especially from start-ups. His wife, Annie Huntress Lamont, a leading venture capitalist with deep Silicon Valley connections, might help there. (NYT)• Two city councilors from Seattle, Amazon’s hometown, went to New York to urge politicians to think carefully about housing and transportation before the company establishes new offices. (Bloomberg)• Seven charts that suggest Tesla might be emerging from “production hell.” (Bloomberg)• Qualcomm’s share price reflects two big legal battles: its antitrust trial with the Federal Trade Commission, which continues this week, and its patent spats with Apple. (WSJ)• Amazon is losing popularity on Wall Street. Analysts have the lowest percentage of buy ratings on the company’s stock in 14 years. (CNBC)• Samsung said it expected a 29 percent decline in its fourth-quarter operating profit, severely disappointing analysts. The company cites “mounting macro uncertainties” and “lackluster demand” for its memory chips. (WSJ)• Intel is partnering with Facebook on an artificial intelligence chip for use in processes such as automatically tagging people in photos. (Reuters)Politics &amp; Policy• President Trump plans a televised address on his border wall proposal tonight, and a trip to the border later this week, amid a government shutdown in which the $5.7 billion he demands for the project is a key sticking point. (NYT)• Former Vice President Joe Biden: Will he run? Could he win? (NYT)• The government shutdown will not, after all, delay tax refunds. (WSJ)• Financial companies are looking to move some $1 trillion of assets and more than 7,000 jobs from Britain to the rest of Europe to deal with Brexit uncertainty. (Bloomberg)• Gavin Newsom’s first act as governor of California was to direct state officials to set up a single-purchaser system for prescription drugs, potentially the largest in the country. (Reuters)Best of the rest• Hedge funds including Renaissance Technologies, Two Sigma, Citadel and DE Shaw joined Bridgewater in rising above a terrible year for their industry. (FT)• Morgan Stanley, Fidelity Investments and other financial heavyweights are backing a low-cost stock exchange called Members Exchange, or MEMX. (WSJ)• A new minimum wage of $15 an hour went into effect in New York on Jan. 1. But some cost-of-living calculations suggest it should be just under $33. (NYT)• The Middle East’s largest broadcaster, the Saudi-backed MBC Group, is expanding its video streaming service as part of Riyadh’s propaganda wars against Iran and Qatar. (FT)• The toymaker MGA Entertainment is suing Louis Vuitton’s parent company, the luxury giant LVMH, to ensure it can keep making Poopsie Pooey Puitton, a plastic purse filled with ingredients for “magical unicorn poop.” (WaPo)• The chief executive of Starbucks, Kevin Johnson, is aiming to revive sales by scaling back some initiatives of the company’s longtime leader Howard Schultz, including plans for upscale coffee shops. (WSJ)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you Wednesday.You can find live updates throughout the day at nytimes.com/dealbook.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.

Supported byBy David E. Sanger, Julian E. Barnes, Raymond Zhong and Marc SantoraJeremy Hunt, the British foreign minister, arrived in Washington last week for a whirlwind of meetings facing a critical question: Should Britain risk its relationship with Beijing and agree to the Trump administration’s request to ban Huawei, China’s leading telecommunications producer, from building its next-generation computer and phone networks?Britain is not the only American ally feeling the heat. In Poland, officials are also under pressure from the United States to bar Huawei from building its fifth generation, or 5G, network. Trump officials suggested that future deployments of American troops — including the prospect of a permanent base labeled “Fort Trump” — could hinge on Poland’s decision.And a delegation of American officials showed up last spring in Germany, where most of Europe’s giant fiber-optic lines connect and Huawei wants to build the switches that make the system hum. Their message: Any economic benefit of using cheaper Chinese telecom equipment is outweighed by the security threat to the NATO alliance.Over the past year, the United States has embarked on a stealthy, occasionally threatening, global campaign to prevent Huawei and other Chinese firms from participating in the most dramatic remaking of the plumbing that controls the internet since it sputtered into being, in pieces, 35 years ago.The administration contends that the world is engaged in a new arms race — one that involves technology, rather than conventional weaponry, but poses just as much danger to America’s national security. In an age when the most powerful weapons, short of nuclear arms, are cyber-controlled, whichever country dominates 5G will gain an economic, intelligence and military edge for much of this century.The transition to 5G — already beginning in prototype systems in cities from Dallas to Atlanta — is likely to be more revolutionary than evolutionary. What consumers will notice first is that the network is faster — data should download almost instantly, even over cellphone networks.It is the first network built to serve the sensors, robots, autonomous vehicles and other devices that will continuously feed each other vast amounts of data, allowing factories, construction sites and even whole cities to be run with less moment-to-moment human intervention. It will also enable greater use of virtual reality and artificial intelligence tools.But what is good for consumers is also good for intelligence services and cyberattackers. The 5G system is a physical network of switches and routers. But it is more reliant on layers of complex software that are far more adaptable, and constantly updating, in ways invisible to users — much as an iPhone automatically updates while charging overnight. That means whoever controls the networks controls the information flow — and may be able to change, reroute or copy data without users’ knowledge.In interviews with current and former senior American government officials, intelligence officers and top telecommunications executives, it is clear that the potential of 5G has created a zero-sum calculus in the Trump White House — a conviction that there must be a single winner in this arms race, and the loser must be banished. For months, the White House has been drafting an executive order, expected in the coming weeks, that would effectively ban United States companies from using Chinese-origin equipment in critical telecommunications networks. That goes far beyond the existing rules, which ban such equipment only from government networks.Nervousness about Chinese technology has long existed in the United States, fueled by the fear that the Chinese could insert a “back door” into telecom and computing networks that would allow Chinese security services to intercept military, government and corporate communications. And Chinese cyberintrusions of American companies and government entities have occurred repeatedly, including by hackers suspected of working on behalf of China’s Ministry of State Security.But the concern has taken on more urgency as countries around the world begin deciding which equipment providers will build their 5G networks.American officials say the old process of looking for “back doors” in equipment and software made by Chinese companies is the wrong approach, as is searching for ties between specific executives and the Chinese government. The bigger issue, they argue, is the increasingly authoritarian nature of the Chinese government, the fading line between independent business and the state and new laws that will give Beijing the power to look into, or maybe even take over, networks that companies like Huawei have helped build and maintain.“It’s important to remember that Chinese company relationships with the Chinese government aren’t like private sector company relationships with governments in the West,” said William R. Evanina, the director of America’s National Counterintelligence and Security Center. “China’s 2017 National Intelligence Law requires Chinese companies to support, provide assistance and cooperate in China’s national intelligence work, wherever they operate.”The White House’s focus on Huawei coincides with the Trump administration’s broader crackdown on China, which has involved sweeping tariffs on Chinese goods, investment restrictions and the indictments of several Chinese nationals accused of hacking and cyberespionage. President Trump has accused China of “ripping off our country” and plotting to grow stronger at America’s expense.Mr. Trump’s views, combined with a lack of hard evidence implicating Huawei in any espionage, have prompted some countries to question whether America’s campaign is really about national security or if it is aimed at preventing China from gaining a competitive edge.Administration officials see little distinction in those goals.“President Trump has identified overcoming this economic problem as critical, not simply to right the balance economically, to make China play by the rules everybody else plays by, but to prevent an imbalance in political/military power in the future as well,” John R. Bolton, Mr. Trump’s national security adviser, told The Washington Times on Friday. “The two aspects are very closely tied together in his mind.”The administration is warning allies that the next six months are critical. Countries are beginning to auction off radio spectrum for new, 5G cellphone networks and decide on multibillion-dollar contracts to build the underlying switching systems. This past week, the Federal Communications Commission announced that it had concluded its first high-band 5G spectrum auction.The Chinese government sees this moment as its chance to wire the world — especially European, Asian and African nations that find themselves increasingly beholden to Chinese economic power.“This will be almost more important than electricity,” said Chris Lane, a telecom analyst in Hong Kong for Sanford C. Bernstein. “Everything will be connected, and the central nervous system of these smart cities will be your 5G network.”So far, the fear swirling around Huawei is almost entirely theoretical. Current and former American officials whisper that classified reports implicate the company in possible Chinese espionage but have produced none publicly. Others familiar with the secret case against the company say there is no smoking gun — just a heightened concern about the firm’s rising technological dominance and the new Chinese laws that require Huawei to submit to requests from Beijing.Ren Zhengfei, Huawei’s founder, has denied that his company spied for China. “I still love my country. I support the Communist Party of China. But I will never do anything to harm any other nation,” he said earlier this month.Australia last year banned Huawei and another Chinese manufacturer, ZTE, from supplying 5G equipment. Other nations are wrestling with whether to follow suit and risk inflaming China, which could hamper their access to the growing Chinese market and deprive them of cheaper Huawei products.Government officials in places like Britain note that Huawei has already invested heavily in older-style networks — and has employed Britons to build and run them. And they argue that Huawei isn’t going away — it will run the networks of half the world, or more, and will have to be connected, in some way, to the networks of the United States and its allies.Yet BT Group, the British telecom giant, has plans to rip out part of Huawei’s existing network. The company says that was part of its plans after acquiring a firm that used existing Huawei equipment; American officials say it came after Britain’s intelligence services warned of growing risks. And Vodafone Group, which is based in London, said on Friday that it would temporarily stop buying Huawei equipment for parts of its 5G network.Nations have watched warily as China has retaliated against countries that cross it. In December, Canada arrested a top Huawei executive, Meng Wanzhou, at the request of the United States. Ms. Meng, who is Mr. Ren’s daughter, has been accused of defrauding banks to help Huawei’s business evade sanctions against Iran. Since her arrest, China has detained two Canadian citizens and sentenced to death a third Canadian, who had previously been given 15 years in prison for drug smuggling.“Europe is fascinating because they have to take sides,” said Philippe Le Corre, nonresident senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. “They are in the middle. All these governments, they need to make decisions. Huawei is everywhere.”This month, the Polish government made two high-profile espionage arrests: a former intelligence official, Piotr Durbajlo, and Wang Weijing, an employee of Huawei. The arrests are the strongest evidence so far that links Huawei with spying activities.Mr. Wang, who was quickly fired by Huawei, has been accused of working for Chinese intelligence agencies, said a top former Polish intelligence official. Mr. Wang, according to American diplomats, was the handler of Mr. Durbajlo, who appears to have helped the Chinese penetrate the Polish government’s most secure communications network.A senior American official said the case was a prime example of how the Chinese government plants intelligence operatives inside Huawei’s vast global network. Those operatives potentially have access to overseas communications networks and can conduct espionage that the affected companies are not aware of, the official said.Huawei said Mr. Wang had brought “disrepute” on the company and his actions had nothing to do with its operations.Mr. Wang’s lawyer, Bartlomiej Jankowski, says his client has been caught up in a geopolitical tug of war between the United States and China.American and British officials had already grown concerned about Huawei’s abilities after cybersecurity experts, combing through the company’s source code to look for back doors, determined that Huawei could remotely access and control some networks from the company’s Shenzhen headquarters.On careful examination, the code that Huawei had installed in its network-control software did not appear to be malicious. Nor was it hidden. It appeared to be part of a system to update remote networks and diagnose trouble. But in some circumstances, it could also route traffic around corporate data centers — where firms monitor and control their networks — and its mere existence is now cited as evidence that hackers or Chinese intelligence could use Huawei equipment to penetrate millions of networks.American officials and academics say Chinese telecommunications companies have also temporarily hijacked parts of the internet, rerouting basic traffic from the United States and Canada to China.One academic paper, co-written by Chris C. Demchak, a Naval War College professor, outlined how traffic from Canada meant for South Korea was redirected to China for six months. That 2016 attack has been repeated, according to American officials, and provides opportunity for espionage.Last year, AT&amp;T and Verizon stopped selling Huawei phones in their stores after Huawei begin equipping the devices with its own sets of computer chips — rather than relying on American or European manufacturers. The National Security Agency quietly raised alarms that with Huawei supplying its own parts, the Chinese company would control every major element of its networks. The N.S.A. feared it would no longer be able to rely on American and European providers to warn of any evidence of malware, spying or other covert action.In three decades, Huawei has transformed itself from a small reseller of low-end phone equipment into a global giant with a dominant position in one of the crucial technologies of the new century.Last year, Huawei edged out Apple as the second-biggest provider of cellphones around the world. Richard Yu, who heads the company’s consumer business, said in Beijing several days ago that “even without the U.S. market we will be No. 1 in the world,” by the end of this year or sometime in 2020.The company was founded in 1987 by Mr. Ren, a former People’s Liberation Army engineer who has become one of China’s most successful entrepreneurs.American officials say the company started through imitation, and even theft, of American technology. Cisco Systems sued Huawei in 2003, saying it had illegally copied the American company’s source code. The two companies settled out of court.But Huawei did not just imitate. It opened research centers (including one in California) and built alliances with leading universities around the world. Last year, it generated $100 billion in revenue, twice as much as Cisco and significantly more than IBM. Its ability to deliver well-made equipment at a lower cost than Western firms drove once-dominant players like Motorola and Lucent out of the telecom-equipment industry.While American officials refuse to discuss it, the government snooping was a two-way street. As early as 2010, the N.S.A. secretly broke into Huawei’s headquarters, in an operation, code-named “Shotgiant,” a discovery revealed by Edward J. Snowden, the former N.S.A. contractor now living in exile in Moscow.Documents show that the N.S.A. was looking to prove suspicions that Huawei was secretly controlled by the People’s Liberation Army — and that Mr. Ren never really left the powerful army unit. It never found the evidence, according to former officials. But the Snowden documents also show that the N.S.A. had another goal: to better understand Huawei’s technology and look for potential back doors. This way, when the company sold equipment to American adversaries, the N.S.A. would be able to target those nations’ computer and telephone networks to conduct surveillance and, if necessary, offensive cyberoperations.In other words, the Americans were trying to do to Huawei the exact thing they are now worried Huawei will do to the United States.After an uproar in 2013 about Huawei’s growing dominance in Britain, the country’s powerful Intelligence and Security Committee, a parliamentary body, argued for banning Huawei, partly because of Chinese cyberattacks aimed at the British government. It was overruled, but Britain created a system to require that Huawei make its hardware and source code available to GCHQ, the country’s famous code-breaking agency.In July, Britain’s National Cyber Security Center for the first time said publicly that questions about Huawei’s current practices and the complexity and dynamism of the new 5G networks meant it would be difficult to find vulnerabilities.At roughly the same time, the N.S.A., at a series of classified meetings with telecommunications executives, had to decide whether to let Huawei bid for parts of the American 5G networks. AT&amp;T and Verizon argued there was value in letting Huawei set up a “test bed” in the United States since it would have to reveal the source code for its networking software. Allowing Huawei to bid would also drive the price of building the networks down, they argued.The director of the N.S.A. at the time, Adm. Michael S. Rogers, never approved the move and Huawei was blocked.In July 2018, with these decisions swirling, Britain, the United States and other members of the “Five Eyes” intelligence-sharing alliance met for their annual meeting in Halifax, Nova Scotia, where Chinese telecommunications companies, Huawei and 5G networks were at the top of the agenda. They decided on joint action to try to block the company from building new networks in the West.American officials are trying to make clear with allies around the world that the war with China is not just about trade but a battle to protect the national security of the world’s leading democracies and key NATO members.On Tuesday, the heads of American intelligence agencies will appear before the Senate to deliver their annual threat assessment, and they are expected to cite 5G investments by Chinese telecom companies, including Huawei, as a threat.In Poland, the message has quietly been delivered that countries that use Chinese telecommunications networks would be unsafe for American troops, according to people familiar with the internal discussions.That has gotten Poland’s attention, given that its president, Andrzej Duda, visited the White House in September and presented a plan to build a $2 billion base and training area, which Mr. Duda only half-jokingly called “Fort Trump.”Col. Grzegorz Malecki, now retired, who was the head of the Foreign Intelligence Agency in Poland, said it was understandable that the United States would want to avoid potentially compromising its troops.“And control over the 5G network is such a potentially dangerous tool,” said Mr. Malecki, now board president of the Institute of Security and Strategy. “From Poland’s perspective, securing this troop presence outweighs all other concerns.”Adam Satariano, Joanna Berendt and Katie Benner contributed reporting.

