Supported byBy Ben SisarioNetflix has blocked an episode of its show “Patriot Act With Hasan Minhaj” from streaming in Saudi Arabia after the Saudi government complained that the episode — which is critical of the crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman — violated its cybercrime laws.In the episode, first shown in October, Mr. Minhaj critiques the United States’ longstanding relationship with Saudi Arabia after the murder of the dissident Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi.“Now would be a good time to reassess our relationship with Saudi Arabia,” Mr. Minhaj said, “and I mean that as a Muslim and an American.”After receiving a takedown request last month from the Saudi government’s Communications and Information Technology Commission, Netflix removed the episode from viewing in Saudi Arabia last week. The news was first reported by  The Financial Times.In a statement, Netflix defended its decision: “We strongly support artistic freedom worldwide and only removed this episode in Saudi Arabia after we had received a valid legal request — and to comply with local law.”The episode remains available to Netflix customers elsewhere in the world, and it can also be seen by viewers in Saudi Arabia through the show’s YouTube channel, according to The Financial Times. YouTube did not immediately respond on Tuesday to an email asking whether it had received a complaint from the Saudi government.The “Patriot Act” episode appears to be the only program that the Saudi government has asked Netflix to block there.Mr. Minhaj has not commented publicly on the removal of the episode. But in an interview published in The Atlantic last month, Mr. Minhaj spoke of the fear he felt after creating it.“There was a lot of discussion in my family about not doing it,” he said in the interview. “I’ve just come to personal and spiritual terms with what the repercussions are.”Article 6 of the Saudi anti-cyber crime law, which was cited by the Saudi commission in its request to Netflix, prohibits the “production, preparation, transmission or storage of material impinging on public order, religious values, public morals and privacy” on the internet. Journalism advocates call it a powerful and all-encompassing instrument for the Saudi government to censor virtually any speech online.The Committee to Protect Journalists, which rates Saudi Arabia the third most censored country in the world, has documented the growing crackdown on journalists since the appointment last year of Prince Mohammed, who was first promoted as an agent of modernization and reform.Under Prince Mohammed’s rule, “authorities have wielded state mechanisms ostensibly focused on terrorism to silence journalists,” according to a blog post published in September by the Committee to Protect Journalists.The Communications and Information Technology Commission did not immediately respond to a request for comment.It is not unheard of for Western news organizations to have critical reports censored in authoritarian countries. But that action is often taken by local partners, and sometimes without notice.In 2014, for example, a report about Pakistan’s relationship to Al Qaeda was deleted from thousands of print copies of the International New York Times in Pakistan — resulting in a blank spot on the front page — “without our knowledge or agreement,” a representative of The Times said at the time.An earlier version of this article misstated the name of an organization that has documented a crackdown on journalists in Saudi Arabia. It is the Committee to Protect Journalists, not the Committee to Project Journalists.



      By CHRIS STANFORD and 
    
ANNA SCHAVERIEN

JAN. 4, 2019

It’s a new year but the same news quiz, which is celebrating its first anniversary this week. Find out if you stayed up to date.

Last week, the question about the unprecedented trek by Colin O’Brady had the highest share of correct answers, with 85 percent. Only 44 percent knew which federal department has not been affected by the government shutdown.

The news quiz is published on Friday mornings. Click here for other weeks’ quizzes.
The 116th Congress features the most diverse group of representatives ever elected to the House, whose history spans more than 200 years.What is not one of the distinctions of the new House?First Green BeretFirst Korean-AmericanFirst Native American congresswomanFirst Palestinian-American congresswomanIn a speech on New Year's Day, one world leader said: “If the United States can show corresponding measures, the relationship between the two countries will, through many processes, accelerate for the better. But if the counterpart continues with its past habits, it won’t be good, but I hope they stop this.”Who was it?Bashar al-Assad of SyriaKim Jong-un of North KoreaXi Jinping of ChinaVladimir Putin of RussiaWhich idea did the departing White House chief of staff, John Kelly, say had been abandoned since “early on in the administration”? Appointing a special prosecutor to investigate Hillary Clinton Building a concrete wall between the U.S. and MexicoLabeling China a “currency manipulator” Replacing the Affordable Care Act Which Democrat became the party’s first major candidate to enter the 2020 presidential race?Cory BookerKirsten GillibrandKamala HarrisElizabeth WarrenLongstanding allies like Cuba, Venezuela and Nicaragua were not invited to the swearing-in ceremony this week for the president of which country —  a clear signal of its political shift to the right?ArgentinaBrazilColombiaPanamaNASA’s New Horizons spacecraft reached the most distant object ever visited by humankind, a small, icy world more than four billion miles away.What is the nickname of the object?AlbionPlanet NineSednaUltima Thule In another milestone of space exploration this week, a probe landed on the far side of the moon for the first time.Which country achieved the feat?ChinaIndiaJapanRussiaA long-delayed presidential vote last Sunday was marred by torrential rains, lost voter rolls and malfunctioning machines, and came during a raging Ebola epidemic.The landmark election was the first transfer of power through the ballot box since its country gained independence in 1960. Name the country.AngolaDemocratic Republic of CongoKenyaNigeriaNetflix blocked an episode of its show “Patriot Act With Hasan Minhaj” from streaming in a country whose government complained that the episode — which is critical of its leadership — violated its cybercrime laws.Which country was it?EgyptOmanSaudi ArabiaTurkeyDaryl Dragon, part of a musical act that reached the Top 10 seven times from 1975 to 1979, died on Wednesday at 76.What was the name of the act?The Bee GeesThe Captain and TennilleEarth, Wind &amp; FirePeaches &amp; HerbFrom a tennis match this week, which name completes this foursome?Frances Tiafoe, Belinda Bencic, Serena Williams, Roger FedererSimona HalepRafael NadalVenus Williams

Supported byNetflix does not face the pressures and dangers that Arab networks and artists do. It makes its bowing to Saudi censorship demand even more disappointing.By Ursula LindseyMs. Lindsey writes about culture and politics in the Arab world. RABAT, Morocco — International media companies and platforms would have us all consume the same movies, television shows and music, streamed across the globe. Unfortunately, censorship is becoming globalized alongside culture.In response to a request by Saudi authorities, Netflix recently removed an episode of the stand-up comedy show “Patriot Act,” featuring Hasan Minhaj. The Saudi government accused Mr. Minhaj’s show of violating the kingdom’s vague and broad cybercrime law forbidding the “production, preparation, transmission or storage of material impinging on public order, religious values, public morals and privacy online.”In the offending episode, Mr. Minhaj eviscerated Prince Mohammed bin Salman, holding him responsible for the murder of the columnist Jamal Khashoggi and the Saudi bombing campaign in Yemen. He also mocked the crown prince’s recent efforts to cast himself as a modernizer and a reformer. By making the episode unavailable in Saudi Arabia, Netflix became complicit in the pervasive censorship that artists, entertainers, journalists and regular citizens have long had to deal with in the Middle East.That censorship has only worsened in recent years. Freedom of speech is under assault worldwide, as authoritarian governments shrink the space for dissent and further criminalize various forms of expression.Arab countries are not unique in having laws that criminalize offenses to heads of state, to national institutions such as the army and to national and religious values. Entertainers and creators whose words rub the authorities the wrong way can be accused of vague crimes like tarnishing the country’s reputation, offending public morals, inciting unrest or shaking the foundations of national security.Stand-up is a relatively new entertainment form in Arab countries. But the region has a long tradition of humor in theater, film, political cartoons and the constantly evolving repertoire of jokes told on the streets of Cairo, Beirut and Algiers.The years following the Arab Spring were marked by an outpouring of creativity, dissent and wit. So many people were making fun of the ruling class that they couldn’t be silenced or punished. Social media played a huge role in spreading these barbs and takedowns.In Egypt, where I lived during the Arab Spring, the comedian Bassem Youssef — who modeled himself on Jon Stewart — became a phenomenal success, making fun of government officials, hypocritical media figures and bigots. He mocked the bumbling Islamist president Mohammed Morsi relentlessly, and was both taken to court and lionized for it.The freedom that Mr. Bassem and others like him enjoyed was short lived. Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates were threatened by the popular uprisings of 2011 and bankrolled a counterrevolution, squashing protests in Bahrain and encouraging the Egyptian military to depose Mr. Morsi and take power. The authoritarian regimes that came to power determined to roll back the demands of the Arab Spring proceeded to ensure that what they saw as disrespectful speech was curtailed and policed. After President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi took over in 2013, Mr. Youssef was harassed and threatened; his show was shut down and he soon left the country. Last February, the Egyptian pop singer Sherine Abdel Wahab, who joked onstage about the waters of the Nile being polluted, was sentenced to six months in prison for spreading false news.In the Saudi context, Mr. Minhaj is just the latest voice the authorities have tried to silence. They have remorselessly targeted artists and critics. Last spring, the Saudi police kidnapped Fahad Albutairi, a Saudi actor, from Jordan and returned him forcibly to the kingdom. Mr. Albutairi, who had a popular YouTube comedy channel, may have been targeted for his online monologues or for being married to Loujain al-Hathloul, a prominent feminist activist.Since his kidnapping, Mr. Albutairi has disappeared from the online public sphere and is no longer married to Ms. Hathloul, who has been held without charge for nine months now and has reportedly been waterboarded. Her crime, presumably, is having a voice at all, on a matter — women’s rights — that has become part of the crown prince’s brand.Saudi Arabia has been able to further curtail critical speech — funny or not — because along with the United Arab Emirates and Qatar, it owns all the major pan-Arab satellite television networks and can set the limits of admissible discourse. Even media in the Middle East that does not belong to Gulf countries often caters to their sensitivities because of their economic clout.Netflix doesn’t face the same pressures and dangers that Arab channels and artists do. This makes it all the more disappointing that it acquiesced to the Saudi demand, seemingly out of a desire not to be shut out of a new market.Netflix has defended its position by stating, “We strongly support artistic freedom worldwide and only removed this episode in Saudi Arabia after we had received a valid legal request — and to comply with local law.” But sometimes one has to choose artistic freedom over complying with a repressive and arbitrary law. Netflix would have done better to let Saudi Arabia censor Mr. Minhaj’s work than to censor it itself on the kingdom’s behalf.The streaming giant has set a disturbing precedent and is likely to receive more such requests in the future, as are other media platforms. The authoritarian regimes that are flourishing in the Middle East and elsewhere these days are intent on asserting their authority and their narratives not just domestically but internationally.It is certainly hard to imagine any stand-up that features commentary on contemporary Arab politics not running afoul of one regime or another. Would Netflix then simply avoid subjects of any political importance as numerous networks in the region already do?Mr. Minhaj’s banned episode remains available on YouTube and has drawn a much bigger global audience because of the controversy. But censorship isn’t just about making work and views completely unavailable. It is about asserting a prerogative to police everyone’s public utterances and driving certain speech underground, casting it as illegitimate and dangerous.By going along with the Saudi request, Netflix lent some legitimacy to the claim that it is wrong for Saudis to ever hear their leaders criticized. Despite its reach and influence, Netflix failed to defend everyone’s right to laugh at the powerful and their lies.Ursula Lindsey writes about culture and politics in the Arab world and co-hosts the Bulaq podcast.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. 

Supported byBy Melissa EddyBERLIN — A 20-year-old German student took advantage of passwords as weak as “Iloveyou” and “1234” to hack into online accounts of hundreds of lawmakers and personalities whose political stances he disliked, officials revealed Tuesday, shaking Berlin’s political establishment and raising questions about data security in Europe’s leading economy.Working from his computer in his parents’ home, the young man used relatively simple techniques to hack into successive accounts, the authorities said. There, he stole the users’ personal information and published it through Twitter over the course of December.But it was not until late on Jan. 3 that an employee in the office of Andrea Nahles, leader of the center-left Social Democratic Party, finally noticed the hack and informed security officials, who then scrambled to track the source of the leaks.At a time when Western officials are increasingly wary of digital interference in institutions and elections, and just months before European elections, the revelation of a widespread data breach that took a month to detect has prompted harsh assessments of the preparedness of a nation that for decades has prided itself on its technological prowess. The news that a single person, using unsophisticated methods, was responsible, only compounded those concerns.On Tuesday, Chancellor Angela Merkel’s interior minister, Horst Seehofer, and senior security officials pushed back against accusations they had been too slow to respond or had failed in their mission to keep Germans safe online. They insisted they had organized a response within minutes of learning of the hack and said they had informed lawmakers about the risk of security breaches after a 2015 hack on the government network.“This incident is painful, but our reaction shows the security of the German people is ensured around the clock, also in the cybersphere,” Mr. Seehofer told reporters.Holger Münch, the head of Germany’s federal police, said the young man, whose identity was not released because he was being treated as a juvenile, had admitted during questioning to stealing the personal data of an array of public figures. Most of them are politicians, from all of Germany’s leading political parties — save for the far-right Alternative for Germany, or AfD.“Based on our assessment so far, we believe he acted alone,” Mr. Münch told reporters, adding that so far, investigators had no evidence that the hacker had any affiliation with a political party or other groups. “He acted out of a general discontent with politicians, or journalists, or public figures, who he wanted to expose. That was his motive.”The man was detained on Sunday on suspicion of spying and illegally publishing personal information, crimes that carry a sentence of up to three years each. But because he has no previous criminal record and is being treated as a juvenile, it is likely that he would receive a much lighter sentence.He has since been released on grounds there was not sufficient reason to hold him in detention pending the outcome of the investigation, said Georg Ungefuk, a prosecutor with the Frankfurt-based office responsible for cybercrimes, which is carrying out the investigation.Germany’s main government network was breached by hackers in 2015, and the authorities worried that information obtained then would be used against politicians leading up to the 2017 election. Those fears were largely unfounded, but Mr. Seehofer, the interior minister, warned that last month’s breach should be a warning to everyone, especially ahead of the European parliamentary election in May.“We must be prepared that outside actors may want to influence this election and take every precaution to prevent this and do what we can to recognize such an action as early as possible,” he said. “It could be a very different perpetrator.”Despite the shock that a single person was able to agitate and alarm the country’s political establishment, Mr. Münch pointed out that many young people had committed crimes from computers in their bedrooms, citing examples of teens who had been caught selling weapons or drugs over the “dark web,” areas of the internet hidden from the view of most users.Dirk Engling, spokesman for the Chaos Computer Club, a German collective of hackers, said the hack itself wasn’t technically difficult, but required a great deal of patience in order to learn the necessary passwords.He listed previous examples in Germany of such hacks where an individual’s private information was stolen for the purposes of publishing online, known in the tech world as “doxxing,” but pointed out that they had largely gone ignored by policymakers.“Now that they have been snatched from their online accounts, suddenly it seems to have changed some minds,” Mr. Engling said.The authorities said that on learning of the breaches on Jan. 3, they immediately began coordinating efforts to find the source and request that Twitter take down the offending account, which happened the following morning.The Twitter account announced in November that the leaks were coming, and on Dec. 1 it began posting the data, but apparently few people noticed until weeks later. The authorities said they were still evaluating hard drives and personal papers confiscated in a raid on the man’s home.Of the nearly 1,000 people whose information was leaked, 949 were politicians, roughly half of them from the governing Christian Democratic Union, Mr. Münch said. While some of the information published was already public, there were 116 cases of personal documents that were illegally made public, he said.Opposition lawmakers and members of Ms. Nahles’ S.P.D., which governs in a coalition with the Christian Democrats, have criticized the country’s cybersecurity office and Mr. Seehofer for failing to discover the incursion earlier. The hacker released the information through links and passwords posted on Twitter in the form of an Advent calendar, where a window is opened each day leading up to Christmas, revealing a treat.Early postings involved the personal information of rappers, journalists and YouTube video bloggers, but from Dec. 20, information on members of five of the six political parties with seats in the German Parliament was released. It was not clear why AfD politicians were spared.The attack raised new questions about whether the government had structures in place to adequately help users safeguard their computers and sensitive personal information.Katarina Barley, the justice minister, said her office was looking into whether it made sense to further tighten the country’s already strict privacy laws, or those requiring software providers and companies running internet platforms to respond more swiftly to requests for data to be taken down.“We are examining whether tightening the laws would make sense or be necessary,” Ms. Barley said. She and Mr. Seehofer encouraged Germans to use strong passwords, avoid using the same password for multiple accounts and two-step verification to access to their online accounts as their best.“It can happen anywhere,” said Mr. Engling said of hacks on personal information. “It’s easy to always blame the Chinese and Russia, but using private email for business or political matters makes you susceptible.”Follow Melissa Eddy on Twitter: @meddynyt.Adam Satariano contributed reporting from London.

Supported byLet us help you start your day.By Alisha Haridasani Gupta(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning. We look at President Xi Jinping’s quest to absorb Taiwan, the U.S. Congress’s first day back and a 300-mile human chain in India. Here’s the latest:The Chinese leader called Taiwan’s autonomy “a wound to the Chinese nation” and demanded greater progress in Beijing’s decades-long quest to win control of the disputed island.Details: Mr. Xi gave Taiwan two options: He could use military force if the self-ruled territory grasped for independence, or he could offer a “one country, two systems” deal, similar to the framework used in Hong Kong. But the president didn’t lay down a timetable for either path.Reaction: People in Taiwan are unlikely to be receptive to Mr. Xi’s offer, especially as they watch Beijing squeeze Hong Kong’s political freedoms.Context: China and Taiwan have been in conflict over the island’s status since 1949, when forces defeated by Mao Zedong retreated to the island. Tensions increased when the island moved to democratic elections in the 1990s. Today, only 3 percent of Taiwan’s population favors immediate unification with China, according to a recent survey.Democrats will take control of the House of Representatives when it reconvenes today, representing the first taste of a split government during the Trump era.Details: The U.S. government has been partly shut down for nearly two weeks after a legislative impasse over funding for a border wall.What to watch for: President Trump has invited congressional leaders of both parties to a briefing on border security. Representative Nancy Pelosi, who is likely to be elected speaker today, has said the wall can’t be part of any deal to reopen the government.Kim Jong-un said on Tuesday that he was willing to hold a second summit meeting with President Trump, but he added that if international sanctions weren’t lifted, the North would “have no choice” but to return to nuclear confrontation.“We will not make nuclear weapons and we will not proliferate nuclear weapons,” Mr. Kim said. But he added that it “won’t be good” if the U.S. didn’t make “corresponding measures.”Details: Progress between the U.S. and North Korea hinges on the definition of “denuclearization.” For the U.S., that means the North giving up its entire arsenal. For North Korea, it also includes a reciprocal pullback of America’s ability to threaten the country with nuclear weapons.Analysis: Mr. Kim has essentially returned to where things stood when Mr. Trump took office, indicating that their meeting in Singapore in June altered the optics of their relationship more than the reality, writes our national security correspondent.Two women in the southern Indian state of Kerala sneaked into a centuries-old Hindu shrine that has long barred women of childbearing age.Context: In October, India’s Supreme Court ruled that the ban on women entering the temple was unconstitutional. Since then, women trying to set foot in the shrine have been pushed back by mobs shouting in their faces and hurling stones.Why it matters: This recent development in Kerala was part of a broader movement for equality in the country. Hours before the women entered the temple, an estimated five million people formed a 300-mile-long human chain protesting gender inequality.Reaction: The news was met with protests across the state. The police moved relatives of one of the women to a safe house, local news media reported. And a Hindu priest shut down the temple for “purification rituals.”But one officer stationed near the temple said the two women, whose names were given only as Bindu and Kanakadurga, were “real heroines.”U.S.-China trade talks: As negotiations seeking to reach a deal by March 2 begin, we take a look at the U.S. trade representative Robert Lighthizer, a China skeptic who wants to keep an anxious president from making a hasty compromise to calm the markets.Markets: The new year started on a down note, as shares on Wall Street tumbled at the start of trading, following declines in Europe and Asia, but rose later in the day.Tesla: The auto company reported a 15 percent increase in quarterly production but also announced a price cut for all models, which could suggest softer demand.Censorship factories: Our New New World columnist takes an inside look at Chinese companies whose thousands of low-wage workers help the government monitor and scrub content online.Birth tourism: Chinese mothers choosing to give birth in Canada to get citizenship for their babies are facing growing opposition in the country, with some Canadians calling the legal practice “unethical.”Cultural Revolution: The Chinese photographer Li Zhensheng has been on a decades-long mission to make his country remember the decade when up to 1.5 million died, according to some estimates. Now he’s published a Chinese-language book of his photographs from the 1960s.Moon landing: The Chinese spacecraft Chang’e-4 will make the first-ever attempt to land on the far side of the moon today. [BBC]Ultima Thule: A NASA spacecraft successfully completed a flyby of that small, icy world — the most distant object in space ever explored.Saudi Arabia: Netflix blocked an episode of Hasan Minhaj’s talk show from streaming in the kingdom after the Saudi government complained that the program, in which the comedian criticized Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, violated its cybercrime laws.Qatar: The predominantly Muslim country imposed a 100 percent tax on alcohol, effectively doubling the cost of imported beverages in an attempt to restrict consumption.Russia: More than two dozen people died when an apartment building partly collapsed after an explosion. About a dozen others are still missing.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Marinate salmon in miso paste and maple syrup for a quick, delicious meal.Welcome to 2019. Here’s how to eat a little better.Making changes in the new year? Use science to stick to your goals.How do you acknowledge a colleague’s message? After a recent digital exchange, this writer looked into the history of one of his favored responses: “Roger that.”In the days of Morse code, an R was sent to indicate that a message had been received.That system evolved with the introduction of radio communications. Early transmissions were often of poor quality, so, to avoid misunderstandings, spelling alphabets were developed. Also called phonetic alphabets, they replaced letters with words that started with the corresponding letter.By World War II, the U.S. and British militaries had settled on a standard: Able for A, Baker for B … and Roger for R. (Previously, the British had used Robert.)In the 1950s, a new alphabet — commonly referred to as the NATO phonetic alphabet — was adopted, and is now the most widely used. It replaced Roger with Romeo. (I’m planning to stick with Roger.)Chris Stanford, on the briefings team, wrote today’s Back Story. Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.Alisha Haridasani Gupta writes the Morning Briefing.  @alisha__g 

Supported byBy Glenn ThrushWASHINGTON — In the middle of his crowded dinner in Buenos Aires with President Xi Jinping of China, President Trump leaned across the table, pointed to Robert Lighthizer, the United States trade representative whose skepticism of China runs deep, and declared, “That’s my negotiator!”He then turned to Peter Navarro, his even more hawkish trade adviser, adding, “And that’s my tough guy!” according to aides with knowledge of the exchange.Now, with talks between China and the United States set to begin this week in Beijing, Mr. Lighthizer, aided by Mr. Navarro, faces the assignment of a lifetime: redefining the trade relationship between the world’s two largest economies by Mr. Trump’s March 2 deadline to reach an agreement.And he must do it in a way that tilts the balance of power toward the United States. His approach will have significant ramifications for American companies, workers and consumers whose fortunes, whether Mr. Trump likes it or not, are increasingly tied to China.First, however, Mr. Lighthizer will need to keep a mercurial president from wavering in the face of queasy financial markets, which have suffered their steepest annual decline since 2008. Despite his declaration that trade wars are “easy to win” and his recent boast that he is a “Tariff Man,” Mr. Trump is increasingly eager to reach a deal that will help calm the markets, which he views as a political electrocardiogram of his presidency.Mr. Trump has repeatedly told his advisers that Mr. Xi is someone with whom he can cut a big deal, according to people who have spoken with the president. On Saturday, Mr. Trump called Mr. Xi to discuss the status of talks, tweeting afterward that good progress was being made. “Deal is moving along very well,” Mr. Trump said.The administration has tried to force China to change its ways with stiff tariffs on $250 billion worth of Chinese products, restrictions on Chinese investment in the United States and threats of additional levies on another $267 billion worth of goods. China has responded with its own tit-for-tat tariffs on American goods. But over a steak dinner during the Group of 20 summit meeting in Argentina, Mr. Xi and Mr. Trump agreed to a 90-day truce and to work toward an agreement that Mr. Trump said could lead to “one of the largest deals ever made.”“It’s not some subtle shift; Trump has flipped since September,” said Derek Scissors, who studies China’s economy for the American Enterprise Institute. “He went from saying how he was going to slap tariffs on everything to all this talk about making the greatest deal ever.”Mr. Lighthizer — whose top deputy will meet with Chinese officials this week ahead of more high-level talks in February — has played down any differences with Mr. Trump and views his role as ultimately executing the directive of his boss. But the trade representative, who declined to be interviewed, has told friends and associates that he is intent on preventing the president from being talked into accepting “empty promises” like temporary increases in soybean or beef purchases.Mr. Lighthizer, 71, is pushing for substantive changes, such as forcing China to end its practice of requiring American companies to hand over valuable technology as a condition of doing business there. But after 40 years of dealing with China and watching it dangle promises that do not materialize, Mr. Lighthizer remains deeply skeptical of Beijing and has warned Mr. Trump that the United States may need to exert more pressure through additional tariffs in order to win true concessions.When Mr. Lighthizer senses that anyone — even Mr. Trump — might be going a little soft on China, he opens a paper-clipped manila folder he totes around and brandishes a single-page, easy-reading chart that lists decades of failed trade negotiations with Beijing, according to administration officials.“Bob’s attitude toward China is very simple. He wants them to surrender,” said William A. Reinsch, a former federal trade official who met him three decades ago when Mr. Lighthizer was a young aide for former Senator Bob Dole of Kansas. “His negotiating strategy is simple too. He basically gives them a list of things he wants them to do and says, ‘Fix it now.’”Mr. Trump’s selection of Mr. Lighthizer last month to lead the talks initially spooked markets, which viewed the China skeptic’s appointment as an ominous sign. It also annoyed Chinese officials, who had been talking with the Treasury secretary, Steven Mnuchin, a more moderate voice on trade and the primary point of contact for Liu He, China’s top trade negotiator. Mr. Mnuchin has urged the president to avoid a protracted trade war, even if that entails reaching an interim agreement that leaves some issues unresolved.Mr. Mnuchin, who attended the G-20 dinner, helped Mr. Trump craft an upbeat assessment declaring the Buenos Aires meeting “highly successful” in the presidential limousine back to the airport, according to a senior administration official.The disparate views among Mr. Trump’s top trade advisers have prompted sparring — both publicly and behind the scenes.In late 2017, when Mr. Lighthizer grew concerned that Mr. Mnuchin and Wilbur Ross, the commerce secretary, were wading too far into China matters, he enlisted Rob Porter, the president’s staff secretary at the time, to persuade Mr. Trump to draft a document designating Mr. Lighthizer the main trade emissary to China, according to a person who has seen the letter. Mr. Lighthizer has never used the document to defend his position, the person said, but he considers it an insurance policy of sorts.During an Oval Office meeting with the trade team the fall of 2017, Mr. Lighthizer accused Mr. Mnuchin and Gary D. Cohn, the former National Economic Council director, of bad-mouthing him to free-trade Republican senators.The argument grew so heated that the White House chief of staff, John F. Kelly, quickly pulled the combatants into the nearby Roosevelt Room and away from the president, where the argument raged on for a few more minutes, according to two witnesses.Emily Davis, a spokeswoman for the United States trade representative, disputed the account.Mr. Lighthizer has since worked to increase his own face time with Mr. Trump. He has joked to colleagues that he has more influence with Mr. Trump during winter months because he is able to hitch a ride on Air Force One during the president’s flights down to Mar-a-Lago, which is several miles from Mr. Lighthizer’s own $2.3 million waterfront condo in Palm Beach, Fla.He used that access to argue to Mr. Trump that the United States has never had more leverage to extract structural reforms on intellectual property, forced transfer of technology from American companies and cybercrime. But while Mr. Trump has jumped at the chance to claim victory in changing China’s ways, experts say that what Mr. Lighthizer is demanding would require significant shifts in how Beijing’s central government and its manufacturing sector coordinate their activities, and that might simply not be possible in the short term.“Good luck with that,” Mr. Scissors said.Those who know Mr. Lighthizer say he will try to force concessions through a combination of pressure tactics, like tariffs, and public condemnation. Mr. Lighthizer — who described his own negotiating style as “knowing where the leverage is” during a 1984 interview — typically presents few specific demands during initial talks while publicly bashing efforts by the other side.He used that approach during recent talks with Canada and Mexico to revise the North American Free Trade Agreement, criticizing foreign counterparts as intransigent and characterizing complaints by American businesses as pure greed.Mr. Lighthizer’s unsparing view of China comes, in part, from his childhood in Ashtabula, Ohio, an industrial and shipping town on the Great Lakes hit by the offshoring of steel and chemical production. For much of his career, Mr. Lighthizer was a lonely protectionist voice in a Republican Party dominated by free traders, alternating between jobs in government and a lucrative private law career representing large American corporations like United States Steel in trade cases against China.Mr. Lighthizer found his way into Mr. Trump’s orbit through his work in the steel industry, where he gained prominence by filing lawsuits accusing Japan and China of dumping metals into the United States, in violation of trade laws. In 2011, Mr. Lighthizer caught Mr. Trump’s eye with an opinion piece in The Washington Times, in which he defended Mr. Trump’s approach to China as consistent with conservative ideology and compared the future president to Republican icons like Ronald Reagan.Taciturn in public and self-deprecating in private, Mr. Lighthizer sees himself as a serious player on the world stage: Two recent guests to Mr. Lighthizer’s Georgetown townhouse were greeted by the stern visage of their host staring down at them from an oil portrait on the wall.The trade adviser is guarded around Mr. Trump, often waiting until the end of meetings to make his points and quietly nudging the president away from actions he views as counterproductive, current and former officials said. That was the case in mid-2017 when he cautioned the president against withdrawing unilaterally from the World Trade Organization, adding for emphasis, “And I hate the W.T.O. as much as anybody.”He does not always get his way. In the wake of a new trade agreement with Mexico and Canada this fall, Mr. Lighthizer urged Mr. Trump to consider easing steel and aluminum tariffs on those countries and replacing them with less burdensome quotas. Mr. Trump rejected his plan, according to negotiators from all three countries.A poker-faced Mr. Lighthizer broke the news to his Mexican and Canadian counterparts by declaring the proposal was inoperative, one of the officials said.The president also ignored Mr. Lighthizer’s advice in early December when he announced that he intended to begin the six-month process of withdrawing the United States from Nafta in order to pressure House Democrats into passing the new United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement.That threat undermined months of quiet negotiations between Mr. Lighthizer, labor groups and Democrats like Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio and Representative Nancy Pelosi of California to try to win their support for the new trade deal. Mr. Trump has yet to follow through on his threat, and Mr. Lighthizer continues trying to work with Democrats to get the new trade deal approved.“Bob is trying to provide stability and focus in a completely chaotic environment,” Mr. Brown said. “I can’t speak for Bob, but I am certain he is frustrated. How could you not be frustrated as the U.S. trade representative for a president who knows what his gut thinks but hasn’t put much of his brains into trade?”Alan Rappeport contributed reporting.

