Supported byBy Jamie TarabaySYDNEY, Australia — Prime Minister Scott Morrison of Australia on Monday blamed a “sophisticated state actor” for the recent hacking of Parliament’s computer network, raising the specter of foreign interference in the country’s politics weeks before a national election.The government has not identified the country behind the attack, but Mr. Morrison said that along with Parliament, the networks of the major political parties were also affected.Mr. Morrison did not detail how the country’s security agencies had detected or dealt with the malicious activity, but he insisted that “there is no evidence of any electoral interference.”Cybersecurity experts, he said, briefed the country’s electoral commissions and met with state and territory officials. “They have also worked with global antivirus companies to ensure Australia’s friends and allies have the capacity to detect this malicious activity,” he said.Alastair MacGibbon, the national cybersecurity adviser, said on Monday that the government had not learned the identity of the hacker before it acted to block the activity.That defensive action, he said, “also does other unpleasant things, like remove some of the forensic evidence we’re interested in.”A government cybersecurity expert said one difficulty in identifying the perpetrators was that the hackers used tools that had not previously been seen.The nations most likely to carry out such an attack are China and Russia, security experts said, though Iran, Israel and North Korea also have sophisticated cyberwarfare capabilities.Australia has frequently warned of Chinese interference in its politics. Last year, the government barred the Chinese technology giant Huawei from building a 5G telecommunications network. In a speech in October, the head of the Australian Signals Directorate, an intelligence agency, hinted that the decision was about maintaining the integrity of data and critical infrastructure.“If it is China, then I think it’s important for the public to know that,” said Alex Joske, a researcher at the International Cyber Policy Center in Canberra. “Discussions about Huawei and influence will be issues during the election, and letting the public know that the Chinese Communist Party was in our system is important knowledge.”Mr. Joske said Russia, which interfered in the 2016 United States presidential election, had less interest in the Australian election.After the American experience in 2016, Western democracies should be increasingly aware of the vulnerability of their institutions, said Roderick Jones, founder and president of the cybersecurity firm Rubica in San Francisco.“It is gross negligence to have any significant breach of a system at this point, given everything that’s happened around the world, to have a penetration of a parliamentary system is just negligent,” he said.The Australian hack was above all designed to damage voter confidence, Mr. Jones said.“People are suddenly questioning electronic voting, some of those processes get brought into focus and people stop having trust in them. Every Western election has had interference, every one has been damaged in some way. Russia and China are more allied than ever to destroy confidence in the system,” he said.The prime minister’s acknowledgment of the hack represented a departure from past policy, in which the government has been reluctant to single-handedly call out cyberattacks by foreign governments. Last April, Australia, the United States and Britain accused Russia of state-sponsored hacking. In December, Australia followed the United States in condemning Chinese hackers for trying to steal intellectual property.The Australian government’s conundrum now is what it will do once it has uncovered the identity of the foreign state actor, said Fergus Hanson, head of the International Cyber Policy Center.“This sets up Australia for its first attribution without a coalition, it’s never had the confidence to say that for an attack that just affected Australia,” he said. “In a couple of months’ time, they’re going to have to come out and say who was behind it and then they’ll have to react to it.”How the Australian government responds will be closely watched, not least by the other members of the Five Eyes intelligence-sharing alliance: the United States, Britain, Canada and New Zealand.“Will Australia fall out of the intelligence-sharing community if it doesn’t act, or is shown to have less than robust cybersecurity around key infrastructure?” asked Mr. Jones of Rubica. “There’s not a lot Australia can do, but that’s the point of alliances.”Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article misstated the nationality of Roderick Jones, founder and president of the cybersecurity firm Rubica. He is British, not American.Want more Australia coverage and discussion? Sign up for the weekly Australia Letter, start your day with your local Morning Briefing and join us in our Facebook group.

Supported byBy Marc SantoraPRAGUE — In an attempt to push back against attempts to limit its reach in Europe, the Chinese technology giant Huawei threatened legal action against the Czech Republic if its cybersecurity agency did not rescind its warning about the risk the company poses to the nation’s critical infrastructure.As nations across Europe take the first steps to reconfigure the systems that control the internet, Huawei’s threat was the latest salvo in the escalating war over who will control the hardware that will underpin the new 5G, or fifth-generation, networks.For more than a year, the United States has been engaged in a global campaign aimed at limiting the reach of Chinese telecommunication firms, contending that they pose a threat to security.While American officials have not offered specific details to support their concerns, they have pointed to China’s National Intelligence Law, passed in 2017. They say the law requires Chinese companies to support, provide assistance to and cooperate in Beijing’s national intelligence work, wherever they operate.That law was one of the factors that led the Czech cybersecurity agency, Nukib, to issue a formal warning in December about the risk posed by Huawei and another Chinese technology firm, ZTE.The warning, which carries the force of law, requires all companies in the Czech Republic that are deemed critical to the nation’s health to perform a risk analysis that takes security concerns into account.It has already led several large companies and government ministries to distance themselves from Huawei, including barring the company from bidding on new projects.On Friday, the Czech newspaper Dennik N published excerpts from a letter from Huawei to the head of the Czech cyber agency, Dusan Navratil, and Prime Minister Andrej Babis threatening legal action.“Huawei cannot represent a cybersecurity threat as stated in the warning,” the letter said. “Huawei, according to the Chinese law, does not have any obligation to install backdoor or spyware into their products, and the company would never agree to such a request.”Radoslaw Kedzia, Huawei’s chief representative in the Czech Republic, wrote that the cyber agency had failed to provide any specific evidence of wrongdoing and failed to explain its analysis of the Chinese law.“As consequence of the warning, Huawei has already suffered losses and faces many difficulties,” he wrote in the letter, dated Feb. 1. “For example, it was excluded from public procurement, even those that do not concern critical infrastructure.”“Retail activities have been harmed and the brand damaged,” according to the letter. The company called on Czech officials to rescind the warning, adding that if they did not receive a reply by Feb. 14, they would take the matter to court.Officials at the cybersecurity agency acknowledged receipt of the letter, a copy of which was obtained by The New York Times, but declined to comment.The pushback by Huawei was part of a broader campaign by the company to defend itself across the continent.Huawei sent a letter to the British Parliament this week defending its track record and claiming that any malicious activity on its part would “destroy its business.”The embattled company, which was founded by a former engineer in China’s People’s Liberation Army, claimed that the attacks against it were unfounded.“The governments in some countries have labeled Huawei as a security threat, but they have never substantiated these allegations with solid evidence,” Ryan Ding, the president of Huawei’s carrier business, wrote in the letter to the British lawmakers.The United States, Australia and New Zealand have already barred the company from participating in the building of the new 5G networks.In the coming months, countries across Europe are expected to begin to put in place infrastructure that would allow for the superfast, widely connected networks.Which companies will lead that effort remains an open question. But as Huawei’s threat of legal action demonstrates, the Chinese firm has no intention of ceding the lucrative market.Hana de Goeij contributed reporting.

Supported byBy Jane L. LevereTravel companies were hit by one data breach after another last year — firms including Marriott, British Airways, Delta Air Lines and the travel booking site Orbitz.Marriott estimates that as a result of its breach — in which the reservation database of Starwood-branded hotels in its portfolio was hacked — 383 million guest records could have been affected and 5.25 million unencrypted passport numbers were possibly compromised. And experts expect breaches in the travel sector will continue.“Travel companies are a prime target of cyberthefts” because they have “highly sensitive, personally identifiable information,” said Eva Velasquez, chief executive of the Identity Theft Resource Center, a national nonprofit organization in San Diego that supports victims of identity theft and seeks to broaden public awareness.But travelers do have options to protect their information.Bruce McIndoe, president of WorldAware, a risk management company, recommends creating a “digital persona” when booking travel or making other online transactions. This can include setting up a new, disposable phone number using a service like Google Voice and RingCentral to screen any calls based on caller ID, and to forward these to the phone number that you want to protect.Mr. McIndoe also suggests creating what he calls a throwaway email address, to be used only when booking online, to protect your actual personal or work email from theft. You can also keep your home and work addresses private with a service like iPostal1.com, PhysicalAddress.com and PostScanMail.com, which can create a new mailing address for you. And you can rent a post office box from the United States Postal Service, though this cannot be used for many online transactions.There are many steps you can take to protect any device you bring on business trips. If you work for a large company or service provider, like a law or accounting firm, your employer may be able to provide clean devices, even some with special protections appropriate for whatever destination you visit.Before leaving on a trip, Sam Rubin, a vice president of the Crypsis Group, a cybersecurity consulting firm, advises all travelers, regardless of the size of their employer, to make sure their laptops are encrypted, via software like BitLocker for Windows laptops or Filevault, for Macs. He also suggests backing up data regularly, installing application updates and deleting unneeded and old data from devices.The Global Business Travel Association, a trade group for corporate travel managers, suggests using a privacy filter on your laptop and tablet screen when you’re traveling. To prevent theft, lock your devices when you’re not using them, through a PIN, password protection or physical locks and alarms. The group also recommends using a juice-jack protector — attached to the end of your USB cord — to protect against data skimmers when you plug the cord into a public charging station. If you bring your own charging device, you won’t need a public charger.Experts strongly recommend not connecting to unsecured public Wi-Fi systems anywhere in the world, not only at coffee shops like Starbucks but also in airports and hotels, among other places. If you must use these, Si-Yeon Kim, chief risk and compliance officer of American Express Global Business Travel, suggests minimizing the number of documents you open, and being careful of whatever information you transmit.Christel Cao-Delebarre, the global privacy officer in London for Carlson Wagonlit Travel, a travel management company, advises being “very careful about speaking with colleagues and possibly sharing confidential information in public places.” She also urges travelers not to leave confidential documents unattended either in conference or guest rooms at hotels and elsewhere.When it comes to working online, Mr. Rubin advises using two-factor authentication on all Internet-accessible accounts. He suggests locking and password-protecting your mobile phone and configuring it to automatically lock after a period of inactivity, and using secure passwords, with a different password for each device and account. Password managers like LastPass and Keeper can help you remember and manage these.As for making purchases online, consider signing up for a credit card to be used only for such transactions. You also can set up a virtual credit card for a one-time purchase whose cost you can limit. Some of these can also be used to pay for recurring charges; those amounts can also be limited. Virtual credit cards are issued by companies such as Bank of America, Citi, Capital One, American Express and Privacy.com. According to Mr. Rubin, if the virtual credit card is compromised, it should have no impact on your physical card.Another payment option, possibly more secure than credit cards, is PayPal, said Robert Austin, president of KoreLogic, a cybersecurity company.BCD Travel, another travel management company, advises against posting pictures online of your itineraries, tickets or boarding passes. It also urges travelers to never leave their boarding passes and tickets on an airplane or in a hotel room, and to shred these once you’ve used them, all steps to keep cyberthieves from obtaining your travel details. Another protective measure is to use digital boarding passes issued by the airline, and apps like BCD’s TripSource, TripLingo, Apple Wallet and Google Pay. This information will be protected by the security code on your mobile phone even if the phone is lost or stolen.John Reed Stark, former chief of the S.E.C.’s Office of Internet Enforcement and author of “The Cybersecurity Due Diligence Handbook,” advises setting up your credit card account to automatically notify you of all transactions via email or its app, which he said will make you aware of every transaction as it occurs. He also suggests setting up a separate email account for these alerts, so you can easily track them and not clog up other accounts.To further track any suspicious activity, he advises subscribing to a credit and identity monitoring company — such as Experian, TransUnion or Equifax — that can provide alerts relating to your credit rating, credit cards and banking.For additional protection, Mr. Rubin suggests the purchase of an individual cybersecurity insurance policy, offered by companies like Chubb and NAS Insurance. Although such policies have long existed for businesses, individual policies are a new development.Henry Harteveldt, president of Atmosphere Research Group, a travel research company, said his company had found that a growing number of travelers were becoming uncomfortable with sharing their personal information with travel sellers.“The lesson for travel suppliers here is that no matter how good they think their cybersecurity hardware and software practices are, they may never be good enough,” Mr. Harteveldt said. “Sadly, there will be one hacker a step ahead at some travel company.”

Supported byBitsBy Nicole PerlrothEach week, technology reporters and columnists from The New York Times review the week’s news, offering analysis and maybe a joke or two about the most important developments in the tech industry. Want this newsletter in your inbox? Sign up here.Hello, dear readers! I’m Nicole Perlroth, cybersecurity reporter here at The Times. I’m afraid the week’s news isn’t all unicorns and rainbows.This should come as a shock to no one, but President Trump’s confrontational diplomacy has energized state hackers in Iran and China. They are targeting companies and government agencies in the United States with renewed gusto, after a multiyear lull. The rebound in activity comes on top of the continuing threat from Russians, who have already started hacking European civil society groups before elections there in May.Consider this a preview of 2020.With the United States pulling out of the nuclear deal with Iran, Iranian hackers are hitting American banks, businesses and federal agencies with cyberattacks. They’ve significantly stepped up their game: harder to track down and more effective.We’re no longer talking so-called denial-of-service attacks that make websites hiccup. They’re exploiting weaknesses in the internet’s backbone to steal web traffic as it passes between government agencies, banks and businesses that manage their back-end infrastructure.The attacks rattled Homeland Security officials, who triggered an emergency alert during the government shutdown last month. Security researchers say that the attacks have not relented and that they’re hitting American targets with an unnerving success rate.The news out of China is even more troubling. Mr. Trump’s trade confrontations with Beijing have energized state hackers in Beijing, who have renewed attacks on American businesses, especially in high-tech and defense companies.Chinese industrial espionage notably dropped after President Barack Obama and President Xi Jinping of China reached a 2015 deal to cease cybertheft of trade secrets. Now, the gloves are off.Miriam Wugmeister, a cybersecurity specialist at the law firm Morrison Foerster, told me that Fortune 500 companies were being hit at “shockingly high” rates.It’s rare that victims step forward — state laws require companies to disclose breaches only if personal data is compromised — but T-Mobile, Boeing and General Electric Aviation are among the companies in the crossfire.If that’s not worrying you, consider my colleague Sui-Lee Wee’s blockbuster report Thursday on China’s campaign to build a DNA database, in part to track and suppress China’s minority Uighur population. Beijing could not have pulled this off without a big helping hand from Thermo Fisher, a Massachusetts equipment maker, and genetic material provided by a prominent Yale University researcher who says he was unaware the material was used as a surveillance tool.In other news:■ Lyft is racing to beat Uber to an initial public offering, my colleagues Mike Isaac and Kate Conger reported. Lyft is hoping to debut on the Nasdaq at a $20 billion to $25 billion valuation before it’s overshadowed by its bigger ride-hailing competitor, Uber, which bankers initially pegged at a $120 billion valuation.■ Google is losing advertisers after a YouTuber posted video showing the prevalence of pedophiles who comment on videos of children doing regular activities like gymnastics or stretching. My colleagues Dai Wakabayashi and Sapna Maheshwari reported that major brands like Nestlé and Epic Games have pulled advertising after users flagged their ads on children’s videos targeted by pedophiles.YouTube and other big tech companies are already under fire for failing to aggressively police their platforms. Last month, YouTube said it had tweaked its algorithm to stop recommending conspiracy theories to users. This past week, my colleague Kevin Roose wrote a terrific piece outlining one of the central challenges for the company: Some of YouTube’s biggest stars (and ad magnets) push conspiracies.Google is hardly the only company struggling with misinformation. This month, The Guardian discovered that YouTube’s recommendation algorithms and Facebook’s search results were still steering viewers from fact-based medical information to anti-vaccine misinformation. All this as the Pacific Northwest is still reeling from an emergency measles outbreak.■ Karl Lagerfeld, the fashion icon, died in Paris on Tuesday. True to form, no obituary had an accurate read on his age, though The Times noted he was “generally thought to be 85.”A tech newsletter this depressing would not be complete without my favorite Lagerfeld quote: “Sweatpants are a sign of defeat. You lost control of your life, so you bought some sweatpants.” (Thank God Karl Lagerfeld never set foot in Silicon Valley.)Nicole Perlroth writes about cybersecurity in the Times’s San Francisco bureau. Follow her here on Twitter: @nicoleperlroth.

Supported byBy Adam SatarianoBARCELONA, Spain — The United Arab Emirates said on Tuesday that it would use equipment from the Chinese technology giant Huawei to build a new high-speed wireless network, despite pressure by the United States to steer clear of the company’s products.The announcement, made at a major European trade conference, was another setback for a campaign by officials from the United States to persuade countries to restrict the use of Huawei equipment in next-generation wireless networks, known as 5G. The Trump administration claims Huawei’s equipment creates a cybersecurity risk that China’s government can exploit for espionage or sabotage, a charge Huawei has forcefully denied.But the plan detailed by the United Arab Emirates’ state-owned telecommunications company, Etisalat, was the latest indication that American officials are having difficulty persuading other countries to go along with their push against Huawei, the world’s largest maker of telecommunications equipment.The United Arab Emirates is a reliable ally of the United States in the Middle East, and a major buyer of American military equipment.Much of the American lobbying campaign against Huawei has focused on Europe, where Huawei sells antennas, base stations and other equipment used in telecommunications networks. Last week, the British authorities signaled that they did not believe a blanket ban of Huawei was necessary to secure the country’s wireless networks. The Czech Republic, France, Germany and Poland are also considering restrictions against Huawei.The United Arab Emirates made its announcement during the annual wireless industry conference, MWC Barcelona. The event, attended by more than 100,000 people from more than 2,000 companies, has become a referendum on Huawei. The United States sent a delegation of officials from the State, Commerce and Defense Departments to meet with representatives from telecommunications companies and governments to warn against using Huawei equipment.On Tuesday, the conference played host to dueling news conferences between Huawei and the United States.In the morning, Huawei’s rotating chairman, Guo Ping, said that the allegations against the company were baseless, and that it would never allow its equipment to be used for spying.“Huawei has not and will never plant back doors,” he said. “And we will never allow anyone to do so in our equipment.”By the afternoon, American officials had called a hastily arranged news conference to reiterate their concerns. Citing a Chinese law that requires companies to work with the government on national security matters, Robert L. Strayer, ambassador for cyber and international communications, said countries should be wary working with Huawei.The confrontation followed a statement last week by Secretary of State Mike Pompeo that countries that allow Huawei in its 5G networks may be blocked from information sharing with the United States.But the threats have failed to win new restrictions against Huawei. A frustration among those who have met with American officials is the lack of evidence indicating how Huawei could present a cybersecurity risk.The United Arab Emirates said Huawei would help build 300 5G towers in the first half of this year. Financial details weren’t disclosed.On Tuesday, Mr. Guo said people were right to be asking about the security of new wireless networks, but added that the United States also deserved scrutiny for its past behavior.“It’s an important question to ask,” he said. “And if you don’t understand this question, go ask Edward Snowden.” Mr. Snowden, a former government contractor, fled the United States in 2013 after revealing a wide-ranging internet surveillance program by American spy agencies and their allies.Follow Adam Satariano on Twitter: @satariano.

Supported byBy Andrew E. KramerMOSCOW — The treason trial of some of Russia’s top cybersecurity officials ended on Tuesday without solving the mysteries at the center of the case: Why had the men been arrested and what, if anything, did they have to do with Russia’s efforts to disrupt the 2016 American presidential election? Was the prosecution driven not by geopolitical concerns but by a businessman’s desire for revenge?The case began when Russian counterintelligence investigators seized several leading cybersecurity officials in raids conducted in early December 2016. With the arrests coming one month after the American election, speculation swirled that the men had been caught leaking information that helped the F.B.I.’s investigation into Russia’s election hacking.But no clear evidence of that has ever emerged, and the drawn-out trial wrapped up in a Moscow military courtroom without shedding any official light on the reasons for the arrests or if the timing of them, coming so close to the election, signaled a connection to the Russian meddling.Under the watchful eye of security forces wearing ski masks, journalists were allowed into the courtroom for the first time on Tuesday to hear the verdict. Speaking for about 10 minutes, a judge convicted the two main figures and sentenced them to lengthy terms in prison for treason, without saying why.Sergei Mikhailov, a former deputy director of the computer crimes unit of the Federal Security Service, the main successor agency to the K.G.B., was sentenced to 22 years in a penal colony on two counts of treason.Ruslan Stoyanov, a senior researcher at Kaspersky Lab, an antivirus company, was sentenced to 14 years on one count of treason. Two other suspects had earlier pleaded guilty and are awaiting sentencing.Both men convicted Tuesday had for years cooperated with United States law enforcement and Western computer security researchers on bread-and-butter cybercrime issues like stopping spam and bank fraud.But then came the election hacking scandal in 2016, and the men’s arrests signaled that this type of cooperation would stop.Cooperating with the United States was “something that went out of fashion after the scandal,” said Andrei Soldatov, the author of “The Red Web,” and an authority on Russian internet policies.As part of the election interference operation, two Russian hacking groups intruded into the servers of the Democratic National Committee. One group was affiliated with the F.S.B., Mr. Mikhailov’s agency, and the other with the Russian military intelligence organization known as the G.R.U., according to United States government officials and cybersecurity researchers who studied the breach.Only the G.R.U. leaked the stolen information, according to a United States interagency report on the hacking released in 2017. The special counsel investigating Russian meddling, Robert S. Mueller III, last year indicted 12 G.R.U. officers.The detailed accusations by American intelligence agencies against Russia, and the stated high level of confidence in their findings, gave rise to questions about whether they had sources inside Russia.Leaks about the treason case reported in the Russian news media, as well as interviews with defense lawyers and a witness, have indicated that the defendants’ ties to American officials long predated the presidential campaign, and that the information they passed on was not directly related to the hacking investigation.Kommersant, a Russian newspaper, reported this month that Mr. Mikhailov and Mr. Stoyanov were accused of revealing to the F.B.I. information about F.S.B. investigative methods while cooperating with American colleagues on a criminal case nearly a decade ago.Mr. Mikhailov, through intermediaries, passed the data to the F.B.I. in 2011 while investigating ChronoPay, a Russian online payments processing company, the newspaper report said, potentially opening a window on money flows in the Russian online underworld — information that could also be useful in the investigation of the election hacking.At the time, Russia was under diplomatic pressure from the United States and Canada to prosecute the company’s owner, Pavel Vrublevsky, for selling counterfeit erectile dysfunction pills to Americans through websites. Mr. Vrublevsky has denied ties to that scheme.Mr. Mikhailov led the successful prosecution of Mr. Vrublevsky on a separate accusation of hacking the payment system for online ticket sales at Aeroflot, the Russian national airline.Outside the courtroom on Tuesday, a defense lawyer, Inga Lebedeva, told reporters that Mr. Vrublevsky had initiated the treason case in a vendetta against the F.S.B. official and the cybercrime researcher who had put him in prison in the Aeroflot case.“His goal was revenge,” Ms. Lebedeva said. At no point during the closed trial, she said, had Russian meddling in the 2016 United States election come up.“The boys think that in their activities against hackers and criminals they stepped on somebody’s tail,” Ms. Lebedeva said of the two defendants. She said both men would appeal their convictions.Mr. Vrublevsky, in an interview, said he had testified against the pair in the treason trial and believed that they had indeed illegally passed information to the American authorities, but not about election hacking. “These guys were selling fairy tales to the United States about people doing business, like me,” he said.Still, the arrests amounted to a purge of the leadership of the cyberwing of Russia’s main intelligence agency in the midst of the electoral hacking scandal, an issue carrying immense implications for Russia’s relations with the United States.Along with Mr. Mikhailov, who was reportedly dragged from an F.S.B. meeting with a bag over his head, Russian counterintelligence officers detained his deputy, Dmitry A. Dokuchaev. Mr. Dokuchaev pleaded guilty in the treason case.The United States has not accused Mr. Dokuchaev of having any role in the election hacking but has indicted him in a separate cybercrime case that overlaps with sanctions imposed on Russians for election meddling. Federal authorities in Washington and San Francisco in 2017 accused Mr. Dokuchaev, who at the time was also facing the treason charge in Russia, of doubling as a cybercriminal while working at the F.S.B. He was accused of hacking Yahoo and stealing 500 million passwords.That indictment identified him as having overseen the work of one of three others named in the Yahoo hack, a suspected cybercriminal, Aleksei A. Belan, whom the Obama administration placed under sanctions in relation to the election hacking.

Supported byBy Karen WeiseSEATTLE — A group of hackers associated with Russian intelligence targeted civil society groups across Europe ahead of May elections there, Microsoft said on Tuesday.The attacks, disclosed by Microsoft in a blog post, demonstrate the continuing spread of a broad online campaign aimed at disrupting real and potential political opponents of Russia’s president, Vladimir V. Putin. The company said it had found that hackers targeted more than 100 email accounts at think tanks and nongovernmental organizations that work on issues including election security, nuclear policy and foreign relations.Microsoft didn’t address what country the attacks came from, but it blamed a group of hackers sometimes called Fancy Bear. Online security companies have identified Fancy Bear as a Russian group, and it is widely believed to be tied to Russian intelligence.Fancy Bear was involved in the 2016 hacking of the Democratic National Committee in the United States, according to the party and security researchers. Last year, the American authorities indicted 12 Russian intelligence officers related to the hacks of the party headquarters and the Clinton presidential campaign.Russian officials have denied that Moscow had any role in the hacking attempts.Despite scrutiny of groups like Fancy Bear, the attacks have continued. Last year, the same hacking group similarly targeted Republican think tanks that had criticized President Trump before the midterm elections in the United States. Microsoft also detected those as part of its cybersecurity operations.Increasingly the attacks have also targeted groups that are not directly involved in elections but seek to steer debate or focus on specific targets, as both the 2018 attacks and the new attacks disclosed in Europe show.Microsoft said the latest attacks had taken place in advance of the European Parliament elections, which are set for May, “as well as several key national elections.”The company said the attacks occurred between September and December and took the form of spearfishing campaigns. Spearfishing involves sending emails that appear to come from legitimate sources to get users to click the links inside. If a user clicks those links, hackers can install malware, steal passwords or conduct other online mischief.The German Council on Foreign Relations, the European offices of the Aspen Institute and the German Marshall Fund of the United States were among the groups that were targeted and agreed to be disclosed, Microsoft said.In a statement on its website, the German Marshall Fund said groups beyond candidates and their political campaign managers must be increasingly vigilant.“Everything we do as an organization, from our policy research to our work strengthening civil society, is dedicated to advancing and protecting democratic values,” it said. “The announcement serves as a reminder that the assault on these values is real and relentless.”The other groups could not immediately be reached for comment.The targeted research institutes have done work related to issues important to Russian policy and its continuing use of misinformation to influence elections. The German Marshall Fund, for example, has investigated Russia’s use of social media to spread political messages in its favor in various elections in Europe. The German Council on Foreign Relations has published reports related to arms control and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, which has been at odds with Russia.Microsoft has been tracking the increase in hacking attempts by nation states, including Russians, as part of its Defending Democracy Program, which it announced last year to provide protection to candidates, political parties and nongovernmental organizations working in the field of elections.It said it was expanding its AccountGuard cybersecurity service free to campaigns and nongovernmental organizations that use its Office 365 software in 12 new European markets to protect against these kinds of hacks.A Microsoft executive, Tom Burt, said in the blog post that Europe was the birthplace of democracy, and that “as the ongoing attacks demonstrate, this idea is increasingly under threat.”

Supported byBy Marc Santora and Hana de GoeijPRAGUE — For more than 1,000 years, the sprawling castle complex perched high above Prague has been the seat of power for Holy Roman emperors, the kings of Bohemia and, now, the Czech president, Milos Zeman. And for the last four years, the Chinese technology giant Huawei has had a contract to fulfill the communication needs of the president and his staff.The presidential contract is the most visible symbol of how deeply Huawei has established itself in the Czech Republic, long viewed by China as a springboard country for its interests across the European Union.So when the Czech government’s cybersecurity agency issued a directive in December warning that Huawei represented a potential national security threat, company officials were shocked — as was Mr. Zeman, known for his closeness to China. Huawei has threatened legal and financial retaliation. Mr. Zeman has accused his own intelligence services, including the cybersecurity agency, known as Nukib, of “dirty tricks.”The unexpected confrontation in the Czech Republic comes as Huawei, already entangled in the trade war between China and the United States, is running into deepening problems in European Union countries, where it has worked for years to build inroads. Only weeks after Nukib issued its directive against Huawei, Polish authorities in January arrested a Huawei employee in Warsaw on charges of spying.Looming above everything is the question of which companies will build the infrastructure of the fifth generation of wireless technology, known as 5G. American officials regard the technology as a national security issue and have moved aggressively to limit the role of Chinese companies, especially Huawei.Speaking in Budapest on Monday, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, who is touring Central Europe, warned about “risks that Huawei’s presence in their networks present — actual risks to their people, to the loss of privacy protections.”Huawei is already hitting problems in Germany and Britain, traditional American allies. Yet few people would have predicted that the most direct action against the company would come from the Czech Republic, where Mr. Zeman has long courted Chinese investment and is planning to make his fifth visit to China in the spring. The Nukib directive has infuriated the president and driven a wedge into the Czech government.In an interview, Dusan Navratil, the head of the agency, said the stakes are high because 5G “will change the whole way societies function.” While the public might think of 5G as simply a matter of faster download times, the system is designed to be far more, linking everything from the cars we drive to the hospitals we visit in a way unimaginable only a decade ago.Mr. Navratil said one reason his agency penalized Huawei was China’s National Intelligence Law, which was passed in 2017 and requires Chinese companies to support, provide assistance and cooperate in the authoritarian nation’s national intelligence work, wherever they operate. While declining to discuss classified intelligence, he offered an analogy.“Imagine there is a restaurant where the hygiene is filthy rotten,” Mr. Navratil said. “The agency overseeing the restaurant has no evidence someone has gotten sick or died. But does that mean you should eat there?”As a result of the agency’s move, Huawei’s business in the Czech Republic could be devastated. The directive doesn’t affect consumer products, such as mobile phones, but it aims to severely restrict the role Huawei can play in 5G, and to block it from supplying equipment to public and private entities deemed critical to national security.“This is the first time we have ever issued such a warning,” Mr. Navratil said.Since then, the Ministries of Health and Justice announced that they would not honor existing contracts to buy servers from Huawei. The country’s largest carmaker, Skoda, has temporarily stopped Huawei from bidding on projects as it undergoes a security review demanded by the new cyberdirective.Even Huawei’s contract with the presidential offices is under review.In turn, Huawei has been hitting back. Last week, the company threatened litigation against the cyberagency, as well as economic retaliation. It also has intensified lobbying campaigns with some lawmakers and others in the political elite, including a Czech delegation that the company hosted in China last month.“The Chinese believe they are one to two years ahead of everyone and they see this as an effort to slow them down,” said Jaroslav Roman, a Czech Communist Party official on the visit. “They wanted us to know that if the discrimination continued, there would be repercussions.”Huawei officials have argued that the Chinese law regarding intelligence is being deliberately misinterpreted, a point disputed by many Western experts.But it is the threat of economic retaliation that has most alarmed many business leaders and lawmakers, given how ardently Mr. Zeman has built economic ties between the two countries. One example is PPF Group, the largest Czech company, which has focused on China in recent years.Its home lending business counts some 15 million Chinese customers, which is not much in Chinese terms but hugely important for the Czech-owned company. PPF also controls the country’s largest telecom provider, O2, and had signed a memorandum of understanding with Huawei regarding future projects before the security agency issued its warning. That will now have to be reviewed.Mel Carvill, a board member for Home Credit, a consumer loan company that is a part of the PPF Group, said the Chinese regulatory agency overseeing the home lending business had not taken any action against the company.“Of course, if relations between countries deteriorate, things might become difficult,” he said.Huawei officials, for their part, were so confident in their standing in the Czech Republic that in June, they decided to push for Czech security clearance to work on critical infrastructure — a move that may have contributed to the cyberagency’s decision to more closely scrutinize the Chinese company.“It was overreach on their part,” said Jakub Janda, the director at the Prague-based think tank European Values.Mr. Janda said there was particular concern about the dozens of technology assistants working for Huawei who had unlimited access to all the data gathered by their mobile partners.Unlike cases involving Russians accused of spying in the Czech Republic, Mr. Janda noted, concerns about Chinese espionage are kept quiet for diplomatic reasons. No one has been charged with spying in the country.Even as Huawei is trying to regain footing in the Czech Republic, the company is also mounting a public relations counteroffensive in Poland, after the arrest in January of the company executive. Last week, Huawei issued a news release in Poland, warning that communication services would increase by 300 percent if the company were excluded from the market.Meanwhile, Huawei has sought to ease Polish security concerns by promising to spend hundreds of millions on a new cybersecurity center. It has also offered the Polish government access to Huawei’s source code in order to prove that its equipment does not have a “back door” for the Chinese intelligence services.However, some experts have said such gestures are hollow, given how often codes can be updated or changed.For Mr. Navratil, the head of the Czech cyberagency, the issue facing security officials was as evident as it was urgent.“We are a sovereign country and we have a right to say what is in our security interest,” he said. It would be helpful, he said, if NATO or the E.U. would offer some specific guidance since it would give small nations greater ability to act without fear of retaliation.That does not appear to be happening anytime soon.“Given the stakes,” Mr. Navratil said, “we cannot just rush headlong into this.”

Supported byBy Nicole PerlrothSAN FRANCISCO — Businesses and government agencies in the United States have been targeted in aggressive attacks by Iranian and Chinese hackers who security experts believe have been energized by President Trump’s withdrawal from the Iran nuclear deal last year and his trade conflicts with China.Recent Iranian attacks on American banks, businesses and government agencies have been more extensive than previously reported. Dozens of corporations and multiple United States agencies have been hit, according to seven people briefed on the episodes who were not authorized to discuss them publicly.The attacks, attributed to Iran by analysts at the National Security Agency and the private security firm FireEye, prompted an emergency order by the Department of Homeland Security during the government shutdown last month.The Iranian attacks coincide with a renewed Chinese offensive geared toward stealing trade and military secrets from American military contractors and technology companies, according to nine intelligence officials, private security researchers and lawyers familiar with the attacks who discussed them on the condition of anonymity because of confidentiality agreements.A summary of an intelligence briefing read to The New York Times said that Boeing, General Electric Aviation and T-Mobile were among the recent targets of Chinese industrial-espionage efforts. The companies all declined to discuss the threats, and it is not clear if any of the hacks were successful.Chinese cyberespionage cooled four years ago after President Barack Obama and President Xi Jinping of China reached a landmark deal to stop hacks meant to steal trade secrets.But the 2015 agreement appears to have been unofficially canceled amid the continuing trade tension between the United States and China, the intelligence officials and private security researchers said. Chinese hacks have returned to earlier levels, although they are now stealthier and more sophisticated.“Cyber is one of the ways adversaries can attack us and retaliate in effective and nasty ways that are well below the threshold of an armed attack or laws of war,” said Joel Brenner, a former leader of United States counterintelligence under the director of national intelligence.Federal agencies and private companies are back to where they were five years ago: battling increasingly sophisticated, government-affiliated hackers from China and Iran — in addition to fighting constant efforts out of Russia — who hope to steal trade and military secrets and sow mayhem. And it appears the hackers substantially improved their skills during the lull.Russia is still considered America’s foremost hacking adversary. In addition to meddling widely and spreading disinformation during United States elections, Russian hackers are believed to have launched attacks on nuclear plants, the electrical grid and other targets.Threats from China and Iran never stopped entirely, but Iranian hackers became much less active after the nuclear deal was signed in 2015. And for about 18 months, intelligence officials concluded, Beijing backed off its 10-year online effort to steal trade secrets.But Chinese hackers have resumed carrying out commercially motivated attacks, security researchers and data-protection lawyers said. A priority for the hackers, researchers said, is supporting Beijing’s five-year economic plan, which is meant to make China a leader in artificial intelligence and other cutting-edge technologies.“Some of the recent intelligence collection has been for military purposes or preparing for some future cyber conflict, but a lot of the recent theft is driven by the demands of the five-year plan and other technology strategies,” said Adam Segal, the director of the cyberspace program at the Council on Foreign Relations. “They always intended on coming back.”Officials at the Chinese embassy in Washington did not respond to a request for comment.Mr. Segal and other Chinese security experts said attacks that once would have been conducted by hackers in China’s People’s Liberation Army are now being run by China’s Ministry of State Security.These hackers are better at covering their tracks. Rather than going at targets directly, they have used a side door of sorts by breaking into the networks of the targets’ suppliers. They have also avoided using malware commonly attributed to China, relying instead on encrypting traffic, erasing server logs and other obfuscation tactics.“The fingerprint of Chinese operations today is much different,” said Priscilla Moriuchi, who once ran the National Security Agency’s East Asia and Pacific cyber threats division. Her duties there included determining whether Beijing was abiding by the 2015 agreement’s terms. “These groups care about attribution. They don’t want to get caught.”It is difficult to quantify the number of industrial-espionage attacks, in part because they have been designed mostly to steal strategic trade secrets, not the kind of personal information about customers and employees that companies must disclose. Only Airbus has acknowledged in recent weeks that Chinese hackers had penetrated its databases.Many of the attacks by the Chinese Ministry of State Security have been against strategic targets like internet service providers with access to hundreds of thousands, if not millions, of corporate and government networks.Last week, Ms. Moriuchi, who is now a threat director at the cybersecurity firm Recorded Future, released a report on a yearlong, stealth campaign by the ministry to hack internet service providers in Western Europe and the United States and their customers.The lone hacking target to publicly confront the ministry was Visma, a Norwegian internet service provider with 850,000 customers. The goal of the attack on Visma was to gain broad access to its customers’ intellectual property, strategic plans and emails, including those of an American law firm that handles intellectual property matters for clients in the automotive, biomedical, pharmaceutical and tech sectors, according to Recorded Future.The Visma attack was harder to trace than earlier incidents, which typically started with so-called spearphishing emails meant to steal personal credentials. This assault began with stolen credentials for a third-party software service, Citrix. And instead of using malware easily traced to China, the attackers used malware available on the so-called Dark Web that could have come from anywhere. They also used the online storage service Dropbox to move stolen emails and files.Federal agencies are also trying to fend off new Iranian espionage campaigns.After  the Trump administration pulled out of the nuclear deal, Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, testified before Congress that her agency was “anticipating it’s a possibility” that Iran would resort to hacking attacks.The Iranian attacks, which hit more than a half-dozen federal agencies last month, still caught the department off guard. Security researchers said the hacks, which exploited underlying weaknesses in the internet’s backbone, were continuing and were more damaging and widespread than agency officials had acknowledged.Iranian hackers began their latest wave of attacks in Persian Gulf states last year. Since then, they have expanded to 80 targets — including internet service providers, telecommunications companies and government agencies — in 12 European countries and the United States, according to researchers at FireEye, which first reported the attacks last month.The current hacks are harder to catch than previous Iranian attacks. Instead of hitting victims directly, FireEye researchers said, Iranian hackers have been going after the internet’s core routing system, intercepting traffic between so-called domain name registrars. Once they intercepted their target’s customer web traffic, they used stolen login credentials to gain access to their victims’ emails. (Domain name registrars hold the keys to hundreds, perhaps thousands, of companies’ websites.)“They’re taking whole mailboxes of data,” said Benjamin Read, a senior manager of cyberespionage analysis at FireEye. Mr. Read said Iranian hackers had targeted police forces, intelligence agencies and foreign ministries, indicating a classic, state-backed espionage campaign rather than a criminal, profit-seeking motive.There is a long history of Iranian attacks against the United States, and episodes from five years back or longer are just now being made public.On Wednesday, the Justice Department announced an indictment against a former Air Force intelligence specialist, Monica Witt, on charges of helping Iran with an online espionage campaign. Four members of Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps were also charged with “computer intrusions and aggravated identity theft” directed at members of the United States intelligence community.Also last week, the Treasury said it was putting sanctions on two Iranian companies, New Horizon Organization and Net Peygard Samavat Company, and several people linked to them. Treasury officials said New Horizon set up annual conferences where Iran could recruit and collect intelligence from foreign attendees.Ms. Witt attended one of the conferences, the indictment says. Net Peygard used information she provided to begin a campaign in 2014 to track the online activities of United States government and military personnel, Treasury officials said.Representatives for Iran’s Mission to the United Nations did not respond to requests for comment.The recent Iranian attacks have unnerved American officials. But after issuing the emergency order about the ones last month, the Department of Homeland Security’s Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency has largely played them down.An official with the cybersecurity agency said there was a belief that no information had been stolen and that the attacks had not “materially impacted” operations. But Mr. Read of FireEye and others said there had been a noticeable escalation in Iran’s digital espionage.“If you tell the Iranians you’re going to walk out on the agreement and do everything you can to undermine their government,” said Mr. Brenner, the former counterintelligence official, “you can’t be surprised if they attack our government networks.”Follow Nicole Perlroth on Twitter: @nicoleperlrothJulian Barnes contributed reporting from Washington, and Sheera Frenkel from New York.

Supported byBy Dan BilefskyMONTREAL — In recent weeks, some viewers of “Hockey Night in Canada” have been jolted by the sight of a distinctive red chrysanthemum logo conspicuously displayed during the broadcast of a sports program as quintessentially Canadian as the national game itself.It is the logo for Huawei, the Chinese telecommunications giant whose chief financial officer, Meng Wanzhou, is out on bail in Vancouver, with a GPS tracking device around her ankle, as she awaits possible extradition to the United States to face fraud charges.Advertising on “Hockey Night” is just one example of the expanding footprint of Huawei in Canada, where it has invested a total of $500 million in research and development, including into 5G technology at leading Canadian universities.It also has research facilities in Ottawa, Waterloo, Montreal, and Vancouver; is providing high-speed internet to remote areas of the country; and employs about 1,100 people in Canada.Now, the company finds itself at the center of a rift in Chinese-Canadian relations caused by Ms. Meng’s case, which includes charges of evading United States economic sanctions on Iran. Following her arrest, China detained several Canadians and sentenced a Canadian drug smuggler to death, in what many here viewed as retaliation. If Canada decides to extradite her, which legal experts say is likely, there are concerns of significant reprisals.Even before Ms. Meng’s arrest, which has incensed China, some experts were warning that Huawei’s growing presence in Canada could undermine the country’s economic interests and security.Her case has only intensified those worries.Canadians should take notice that “a company that is invested hugely in Canada is facing serious allegations of fraud,” said David Mulroney, Canada’s ambassador to China from 2009 to 2012.He noted that Huawei had been adept in its approach to the Canadian market, using savvy marketing techniques.“The message that Huawei is on your side in hockey is very shrewd,” Mr. Mulroney said, referring to the “Hockey Night” sponsorship. “Hockey is as close to the Canadian psyche as you can get.”Huawei’s attempt to woo Canadians comes as Canada’s security agencies are undertaking a national security review of whether Huawei technology should be allowed in Canada’s nascent 5G telecommunications network. That review will determine if Canada will accede to pressure from the United States to ban Huawei products from its 5G wireless networks amid concerns they could be used by the Chinese government for espionage.[Want more Canadian coverage in your inbox? Sign up for our weekly Canada Letter newsletter.]Australia and New Zealand have already followed the United States by blocking Huawei from supplying technology for 5G infrastructure.Scott Bardsley, a spokesman for the Canadian public safety minister, Ralph Goodale, declined to comment specifically on Huawei, but said the government was carefully assessing the security challenges and potential threats of 5G technology.“We will ensure that our networks are kept safe for Canadians,” he said.Some experts argue against what they say is American demonizing of Huawei and say the Chinese company owes its success in Canada to making reasonably priced, good quality products consumers like to buy.But former government officials have expressed concern.Richard Fadden, a former director of the Canadian Security Intelligence Service, who also was a national security adviser to two prime ministers, said Huawei represented a clear cybersecurity threat to Canada since Chinese companies like Huawei were required, by law, to respond to directions from the Chinese state, which collects intellectual property and intelligence from Western countries, including Canada.“I would counsel the government to forbid the use of Huawei equipment in the development of our 5G network,” Mr. Fadden wrote in an email.He added that any controls or firewalls that worked today would eventually be overcome by China’s “very sophisticated and ingenious security agencies.”At a news conference last week in Toronto, Huawei’s chairman, Liang Hua, insisted the company posed no threat. “On issues of cybersecurity, Huawei would never do anything to harm any country, any organization or any individual,” Mr. Liang said.He said there was no law in China requiring companies “to install back doors or collect foreign intelligence.”He added that if Huawei ever received such a request from the Chinese state, it would not execute it because the law does not require it to do so.Sitting in front of a sign with the words “10 Years” — representing Huawei’s decade of doing business in Canada — superimposed on a red Canadian maple leaf, Mr. Liang expressed Huawei’s continued commitment to Canada and praised the country as “an open and inclusive place.”He also commented on Ms. Meng’s case.“I hope that the Canadian legal system could bring justice back to her,” he said, adding that the American pressure on its allies over Huawei had provided “a free round of advertisement for the company.”Perhaps nowhere has Huawei’s influence in Canada been more present than in research and development, including at leading Canadian academic institutions, where it has made big investments in research.These investments have generated alarm that, in return for money, cash-strapped Canadian universities are relinquishing control to Huawei of intellectual property related to 5G, while making themselves vulnerable to infiltration by China’s security apparatus.Christian Chua, president of research at Huawei Canada, told reporters last week at the news conference that Huawei shared its intellectual property with the Canadian universities with which it partnered.Wesley Wark, an intelligence expert at the University of Ottawa, noted that universities were typically not vigilant when it came to security issues.He added, however, that the current “scaremongering” about Huawei was misplaced given that both China and Huawei had too much to lose if they spied on the West and lost access to those markets.Nevertheless, concerns that Huawei’s products and infrastructure, including smartphones or cellular base stations, could be used by Chinese intelligence services have been swirling on some Canadian college campuses, including McGill University in Montreal.In December, Canadian Security Intelligence Service officials briefed about 15 researchers there who receive funding from Huawei about national security risks.According to Vincent Allaire, a spokesman for McGill, the spy agency warned the researchers, among other things, that the technology they were working on in partnership with Huawei included “dual-use technology” that could potentially be used for military purposes.Officials at other universities disputed there were any major risks involved in the research partnerships.John-Paul Heale, who oversees company-sponsored research at the University of British Columbia, said Huawei had contributed about $8 million for 14 research projects over three years.He stressed that the university could not become an outpost for secret research on behalf of the Chinese state because all research was required to be published in peer-reviewed journals.“Our research is not happening in the shadows,” he said.While Huawei’s business has been curtailed in the United States amid spying fears, the company is banking on the fact that in Canada, the desire for reasonably priced smartphones and high-speed internet is what ultimately matters to consumers.That appears to be the case in Lac La Hache, British Columbia, population 258, a rural community about 300 miles from Vancouver, where Huawei has partnered with the internet provider ABC Communications to provide high-speed internet.Robert Fry, owner of Cariboo Radio station, said he currently has to commute 45 minutes each day to another town that has an internet connection fast enough to operate a web-based radio station.Thanks to Huawei technology, he said he hopes to be able to work locally and save $20,000 a year.“There are fears that China is corrupt and watching what we do and some people are scared they could spy on us,” he said. “But I’m not worried about that. What matters to me is getting high-speed internet.”Lindsey Wiebe contributed reporting from Toronto.

Supported byCB Insights, a firm that tracks start-ups, analyzed a variety of data to create a list of 50 private companies around the world that are on a path to a $1 billion valuation.By Erin GriffithHong KongWhat it does: Makes a system that lets businesses send and collect money overseasSan FranciscoAn online pharmacySan FranciscoMakes analytics tools that help companies run digital businessesBeijing Makes talent management and measurement tools[The next wave of unicorns will look quite different from the prior generation.]San FranciscoMakes software for life science researchers and companiesNew YorkProvides cybersecurity for cloud software companiesSan FranciscoMakes mortgage and consumer loan application software for lendersNew YorkMakes mobile marketing softwareLeawood, Kan.A financial services platform that provides companies access to working capitalJaipur, IndiaOffers online sales, financing and insurance for autos and education servicesSão Paulo, BrazilA Brazilian start-up that uses technology to make trucking companies more efficientSan FranciscoProvides equity management services for investors, founders and employeesSan FranciscoProvides background checks of workersLondonA map, transit and navigation app for citiesBANGALORE, IndiaMakes software for filing taxes and managing investmentsBerlinMakes software for digital contentBangalore, IndiaA news and entertainment appSunnyvale, Calif.A cloud storage providerPalo Alto, Calif.Makes mapping technology for autonomous vehiclesSydney, AustraliaMakes software for companies to manage staff schedules and timesheetsSan FranciscoMakes software for managing dataPalo Alto, Calif.A short-term loan providerSan FranciscoMakes self-driving semi trucksSan FranciscoProvides large organizations with security for internet-connected devicesSan FranciscoA wholesale marketplace for boutiques and small vendorsSan Carlos, Calif.An online platform for farmers to share and analyze data, buy supplies and sell cropsBostonMakes payments software for global transactionsSan FranciscoMakes email collaboration softwareNew YorkMakes skin-care and beauty productsMexico City And São Paulo, BrazilDockless bikes and scooter servicesSan FranciscoFinds and fixes software vulnerabilitiesStockholm, SwedenProvides services for patients to consult doctors through mobile devicesWashington and San FranciscoProvides mapping technologyOakland, Calif.Provides payments infrastructure for issuing physical, virtual or tokenized payment cardsBeijingMaking oncology systemsGuangzhou, ChinaBuilding online communication between doctors and patientsCambridge, Mass.Making cloud-based design tools for manufacturingSeattleProvides a sales engagement platformBangalore, IndiaConnecting patients to health care providers using techSão Paulo, BrazilA residential real estate rental platformBangalore, IndiaProvides payments technology to online merchantsAustin, Tex.An online platform for contract workers in the energy industry to find workAtlantaProvides technology for companies to increase salesSan FranciscoProvides a platform for gathering and managing dataNew YorkMakes software for analyzing and visualizing dataSan FranciscoProvides apartment-like hotels in citiesSan FranciscoProvides artificial intelligence tools for physical storesSan FranciscoAn online lending platformShanghaiA sharing platform that lets people swap used itemsNew YorkOnline wedding registries and wedding planning toolsErin Griffith reports on technology start-ups and venture capital from the San Francisco bureau. Before joining The Times she was a senior writer at WIRED and Fortune.  @eringriffith 

Supported byBy Nellie BowlesSYDNEY, Australia — Atlassian is a very boring software company. It develops products for software engineers and project managers, with hits like Jira (for software project management and bug tracking) and Fisheye (a revision-control browser). And who could forget Confluence (an enterprise knowledge management system)?So why are its two founders household names in Australia?Because Scott Farquhar and Mike Cannon-Brookes, both 39, are the country’s first start-up-to-I.P.O. tech billionaires. And because in the last year, they have started to make noise.Until recently, they largely stayed out of the public eye, even as Atlassian grew to become a $20 billion company. Now, as Australian politics tilt toward the right on global issues like immigration, cybersecurity and climate change, they are emerging as new political voices, getting in Twitter spats and lobbying Parliament.The other reason they are now household names: In 2017, Mr. Farquhar bought the most expensive home in Australia, a historic Sydney estate that sold for 73 million Australian dollars, or $52 million.In December, Mr. Cannon-Brookes broke that record when he closed on the house next door.I met the Atlassian founders for a few days in Sydney. Over brunches, a ferry ride and a birthday party, they told me about their new roles in public life, and what it feels like to be the first tech billionaires in a country where wealth usually comes from mining or banking.“People are interested now in what we’re saying,” Mr. Cannon-Brookes said. “We have a voice. We have a sense of responsibility.”The two met as undergraduates at the University of New South Wales, where both were in a business scholarship program sponsored by Australian companies. They were encouraged to join one of those companies after graduating, but instead the two friends founded Atlassian, shocking their teachers and friends.It was 2002. Doing a start-up was unusual.“It was disbelief, really — why would you not go with a sponsor company?” said Christine Van Toorn, the program’s director and a lecturer at the school.They relied on credit cards for initial financing. They advertised by going to developer meetups, buying beer for the room and putting Atlassian stickers on the bottles.The company took off almost immediately.“Within three years we went from pariah to sponsoring the program ourselves,” Mr. Farquhar said.The products they created were cheap and easy to use. They sold by word of mouth (the company employs few sales representatives). But Silicon Valley paid them little mind. When their friend Didier Elzinga, founder of Culture Amp, was at a venture capital dinner in Palo Alto, Calif., an investor asked why people should care about Atlassian.“And I said, ‘O.K. Tell me a company in the Valley that listed with a $5 billion market cap and where the two founders own 75 percent,’” Mr. Elzinga said. “They didn’t need Silicon Valley.”First they confused Silicon Valley. And then they confused Australia.“The orthodoxy amongst the Australian tech companies is to stay away from politics,” said Alan Jones, the founder of M8 Ventures, an Australian venture capital firm. “And then now there’s these guys.”Their approach to policy is an extension of how they run a business together and live next door to each other: by relying on their differences.[Sign up for the Australia Letter to get news, conversation starters and local recommendations in your inbox each week.]Mr. Cannon-Brookes’s father was the chief executive of Citigroup Australia. His son wears his hair long, usually under a trucker hat. He has a shaggy beard and swears casually.Mr. Farquhar’s roots are more working class: His father worked at a service station, and his mother worked at McDonald’s. He is quieter, with close-cropped, sandy brown hair.He was recently upset that he hadn’t finished a marathon in under four hours (it was four hours and two minutes). When his green smoothie almost overflowed its glass (but didn’t), Mr. Farquhar immediately thought of lenses: “Positive meniscus!” he exclaimed.In their political activism, Mr. Cannon-Brookes is often the public face, posting on Twitter and talking to the news media, while Mr. Farquhar focuses on Canberra, the capital — where this week he caused a stir by condemning a new law under which tech companies can be forced to build tools that help law enforcement get around encryption in their products.“Sometimes we try the front door, sometimes we need to blow up the side door,” Mr. Cannon-Brookes said of their political activities.Both became more interested in Australian politics after policies took a sharp turn toward the parochial, with the governing coalition abandoning efforts to address climate change and stoking fears around immigration.That presented a problem for a company that needs to hire talented engineers, often from abroad. And so initially, the founders’ main goal was basic: to make Australia more tech-friendly and its politicians more tech-aware.First, they hosted a coding class for elected officials and started working to get engineering into more curriculums.“It was like organizing the world’s worst wedding,” Mr. Cannon-Brookes said.Still, it earned them some respect. “They do some wonderfully creative things,” said Julie Bishop, who was deputy leader of the Liberal Party from 2007 to 2018. “Mike and Scott have an enormously influential role to play.”Australia just passed Switzerland as the richest country in the world as measured by household median wealth, and Mr. Cannon-Brookes thinks its reliance on mineral wealth has made the country slower to make tech investment or long-term economic change a priority.Mr. Cannon-Brookes is especially passionate about climate change. As Prime Minister Scott Morrison has walked back Australia’s renewable energy ambitions, Mr. Cannon-Brookes has become a staunch critic.“You’ve made me mad &amp; inspired me,” he told the prime minister on Twitter, adding an expletive for emphasis.Along with goading Elon Musk to bring Australia the world’s largest battery to help solve its power problems, Mr. Cannon-Brookes has been gathering others in the Australian business community to push Canberra. Peter Dutton, the home affairs minister, has told the Atlassian founders to “stick to their knitting.”“His knitting is running the country well, and he doesn’t seem to be doing it,” Mr. Cannon-Brookes said.He personally invests in alternative fuel and food sources, and he is especially interested in controlled-environment agriculture. “My wife and I have a big belief in the future of insects as a food source,” Mr. Cannon-Brookes said over brunch (granola, not insects).Mr. Farquhar tends to focus on the issues aligned with Atlassian’s fortunes: cybersecurity (he says the new encryption law has cost the company customers) and immigration (he argues that the government is hurting recruitment and innovation by aiming to cut Australia’s immigration intake).It is not at all clear whether he can influence the encryption law; potential amendments are due to be debated in Parliament this week, and no changes are expected.But on immigration, Atlassian’s founders have moved the needle. After Australia’s skilled worker program cut several technology roles (including web developer) from its approved visa categories, Mr. Farquhar and Mr. Cannon-Brookes lobbied Parliament to change course and add more opportunities for international recruitment.On a ferry ride to work, Mr. Farquhar pointed out the two founders’ houses, huge estates set into the lush Sydney hillside. Before they bought the properties, plans had been made to tear down the houses and develop the lots.Mr. Cannon-Brookes and his family moved in a few weeks ago. He and Mr. Farquhar created a hole in the fence so their children could play together. One day a week, the founders pick up their children at school together and take the ferry home.“It’s a changing of the guard,” Mr. Farquhar said, referring to the houses. “They were owned by two newspaper families. It used to be newspaper dynasties, and now it’s technology dynasties.”It was a symbolically significant transition. The Fairfax family, a newspaper dynasty, had owned the properties since 1901.“It was an establishment family, a very conservative family, very committed members of the Congregational Church, and they were mainstays of Sydney’s exclusive eastern suburbs,” said Bridget Griffen-Foley, a professor of media at Macquarie University in Sydney. “So it’s quite symbolic that the fortunes of the old media dynasty have been so affected by digital disruption, and now you’ve got tech billionaires taking over.”This is a big change for Australia, where software entrepreneurs do not have the kind of cultural sway they have in the United States and elsewhere.“Most of the mansions owned by the neighbors are offshore billionaires or really old Australian money — mineral money, gold rush money,” said Mr. Jones, the venture capitalist. “It’s been 100 years since most of the families on Sydney Harbor made their money.”Money notwithstanding, running a growing tech company in Australia is a challenge, the founders said. Recruitment is hard. Two-thirds of Atlassian’s work force is in San Francisco.The founders have formed a cohort of friends with big tech companies outside Silicon Valley, including Daniel Ek, the Swedish chief executive of Spotify, and Ryan Smith of Qualtrics, who is based in Utah.“We’ve got all the same problems,” Mr. Cannon-Brookes said.And so every two years the Atlassian founders have hosted a private retreat, inviting every Australian start-up valued over $100 million, which is about a dozen. They hike and fish. Families are invited. The goal is to encourage camaraderie and share best practices.It is one of many reasons the two men say they would not leave Australia for Silicon Valley.“I know the U.S. very well, and I know Australia very well,” Mr. Farquhar said. “And I think we’ve got it better here.”Want more Australia coverage and discussion? Sign up for the weekly Australia Letter, start your day with your local Morning Briefing and join us in our Facebook group.

Supported byBy Julian E. BarnesWASHINGTON — Senator Richard M. Burr, the head of the Senate Intelligence Committee, warned American corporations on Wednesday that using Chinese technology in next-generation telecommunication networks could pose security risks, but stopped short of endorsing a ban on such equipment that the Trump administration is considering.Mr. Burr, Republican of North Carolina, said in an interview that China was making investments in key technologies, like the kind that will power fifth-generation, or 5G, cellular networks, to have “economic dominance, military dominance” over the United States.“We have to get 5G right,” Mr. Burr said. “And getting it right is contingent on the hardware that goes into the highway.”The Trump administration is considering a broad executive order banning American telecom companies from using Chinese equipment and software in new wireless networks, and has pressured allies to block Huawei, China’s leading telecommunications producer, from having a prominent role in building their 5G networks. The administration contends that whichever country dominates 5G could gain a long-lasting economic, intelligence and military edge, and has accused China of trying to secure an advantage at America’s expense.Last year, Australia banned Huawei and other Chinese companies from competing to build the 5G network in that country.Mr. Burr said the Senate was not looking at the problem with the idea of “banning or forbidding products,” suggesting such a ban would be at odds with the American system. He drew a comparison between Huawei and Russian software companies, whose use by American businesses declined once the United States government deemed their software too risky for its own computers.“I am not sure in America we can do the Australian approach,” he said. “But having a discussion about that is O.K.”Mr. Burr’s remarks came as the Department of Homeland Security conducted an educational session for American companies to warn them about broad and persistent threats from China to steal their technology, particularly by hacking cloud-based services.Telecommunications companies have met with Mr. Burr and the top Democrat on the committee, Senator Mark Warner of Virginia, and the two men have laid out their concerns about Huawei and other firms.Mr. Burr said the American government had become more open about what it shares with businesses and educational institutions about the threat from China.“It is absolutely a necessity for us to share with whoever what the risk is of making a cost-based decision versus a security-based decision,” he said. Huawei’s equipment can often be purchased at cheaper prices than that of American or European competitors.The 5G fight is only one front in an increasingly hostile battle over technology and trade between the United States and China, with Mr. Trump imposing tariffs on hundreds of billions of dollars of goods and accusing the Chinese of “stealing our intellectual property.” Mr. Burr predicted that the United States is likely to sharply reduce education visas for Chinese students, as it tries to limit the threat of American research and technology being taken back to Beijing.“I am more concerned with the fictitious effort to be educated in America — work for 10 years — with the full intent to bring back to China everything you can learn, store or steal,” Mr. Burr said.The senator said he had met with leaders of universities in his state, which include elite institutions such as Duke and the University of North Carolina, to warn them that the number of Chinese students is likely to decline.Chinese nationals make up a large number of students, particularly in graduate math and science programs. National security officials have warned that not enough guardrails are in place to prevent students from taking technology, data and know-how back to China.Mr. Burr said it was difficult to sort out students who might be intent on stealing secrets from those who simply want an education and a life in the United States, suggesting that reducing visas was the only viable solution. Chinese visas have been declining in recent years, although that is at least in part because of a change in the length of visas.“You are talking about cutting off the honey pot revenue stream of every academic institution in this country,” Mr. Burr said. “But this is about being honest and conveying the risk and the reward.”Mr. Burr also said American corporations must be more careful when investing in China, and realize the danger posed by using Chinese-made networks and storing their data in China, where the government in Beijing can gain access to it.“We believe it is important for U.S. companies to grow,” he said. “But we also owe it to them to let them understand the vulnerabilities that exist through capital deployment there, data storage there or a switch that just happens to be located on that 5G highway in an obscure place.”That was the goal on Wednesday of the Department of Homeland Security’s session for businesses on Chinese espionage.The department’s Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency highlighted how China was working to infiltrate cloud services and managed service providers, which offer remote information technology services to companies, to steal data.Groups like APT10, an arm of China’s spy service also known as Stone Panda, have used open source hacking tools and phishing attacks to steal credentials and then penetrate data stored in the cloud.The technology targeted by China is from the industries that Beijing has said it wants to dominate in its China 2025 strategic plan, said Rex Booth, a member of the Cyberthreat Risk Analysis Team at the department.“APT10 targeted a variety of organizations across the globe,” Mr. Booth said. “This reads like a shopping list from China’s strategic plans.”

Supported byBy Adam SatarianoLONDON — The Trump administration has spent a year trying to convince America’s allies in Europe that the Chinese telecommunications giant Huawei is a grave threat to their national security and should not be allowed any role in developing new wireless networks.A top British official indicated Wednesday that the aggressive campaign may not be working.The official, Ciaran Martin, who leads Britain’s National Cyber Security Center, expressed confidence at a conference in Brussels that any security risks Huawei posed could be managed.Britain, Mr. Martin noted, has successfully managed the company’s presence in the country’s telecommunications networks for more than 15 years by subjecting its products to strict security reviews at a laboratory run by government intelligence officials, and would continue to do so.“Our regime is arguably the toughest and most rigorous oversight regime in the world for Huawei,” he said. He added that the company’s equipment “is not in any sensitive networks, including those of the government.”“Its kit is part of a balanced supply chain with other suppliers,” Mr. Martin said.As Britain’s cellphone carriers begin to build 5G networks, officials are considering if, and how, Huawei fits into the effort. With a final decision expected by the end of the year, Mr. Martin’s remarks suggest the British government is unmoved by the Trump administration’s offensive against the company.Because Britain belongs to the Five Eyes intelligence-sharing alliance with the United States, whatever it decides on Huawei is likely to affect how other countries treat the company. Germany is also considering allowing Huawei in parts of its network, The Wall Street Journal reported on Tuesday.Europe has become a key battleground in the debate over Huawei. While the company has mostly been blocked in the United States, it is well established in Europe, working closely with carriers like Deutsche Telekom, Vodafone and BT Group. The region is Huawei’s second-largest market after China.If Britain does not ban Huawei, it would be a defeat for the White House. In private intelligence briefings and public speeches, American officials have warned that Huawei is beholden to the Chinese government, and that countries allowing its equipment to be installed as part of 5G networks will open themselves up to espionage.Vice President Mike Pence, in a speech last week at an international security conference in Munich, took a direct swipe at Huawei, warning America’s allies “to be vigilant and to reject any enterprise that would compromise the integrity of our communications technology or national security systems.”Administration officials have also said that decisions about where the United States puts military bases and troops could be affected by whether countries’ networks have such equipment.On Thursday, President Trump posted on Twitter that American companies needed to step up the deployment 5G technology or risk falling behind other countries.[What is 5G? Here’s what you need to know about the next-generation network.]Huawei has forcefully denied accusations that it is an instrument of the Chinese government. The company is the world’s largest maker of telecommunications equipment — selling antennas, base stations and other products used by the operators of the world’s largest wireless networks.The 5G networks are considered critical to the global economy, providing not just hyper-fast internet speeds, but also new capabilities for sensors, robots, autonomous vehicles, and other data-hungry devices and services. In Europe alone, mobile operators are expected to invest at least $340 billion to develop the networks, according to the wireless trade body GSMA.Huawei’s founder, Ren Zhengfei, whose daughter, Meng Wanzhou, also a top company executive, was arrested in December by the Canadian authorities at the request of the United States, denounced America’s campaign in an interview with BBC this week. He called the actions “politically motivated,” and vowed that there was “no way the U.S. can crush” the company.In Britain, one of Huawei’s most important markets, the government’s treatment of the company has long been debated. A report published on Wednesday by the Royal United Services Institute, a defense think tank, said that “allowing Huawei’s participation is at best naïve, at worst irresponsible.”The British strategy for dealing with Huawei has traditionally involved containment. The country operates a research lab outside London to review Huawei’s products and code, and publishes an annual review of the company’s technology. Last year, Britain criticized Huawei for engineering and supply-chain flaws.“We will monitor and report on progress, and we will not declare the problems are on the path to being solved unless and until there is clear evidence that this is the case,” Mr. Martin said in his remarks on Wednesday. “We will not compromise on the improvements we need to see from Huawei.”American officials have argued that 5G networks are much more complex than existing systems, and that the many lines of constantly updating code make the systems nearly impossible to protect entirely.Peter Chase, a senior fellow at the German Marshall Fund specializing in trans-Atlantic policy, said that a determination by British officials that Huawei could be handled as a manageable risk would undercut the argument that the company posed an existential risk.“They’ve made a pretty hardheaded evaluation that the United States was exaggerating the extent of the problem,” said Mr. Chase, a former American diplomat to London. “I don’t think they did that to please the Chinese.”In his speech in Brussels, Mr. Martin said cybersecurity risks were not confined to one company.“The supply chain, and where suppliers are from, is one issue, but it is not the only issue,” he said. Last year, he added, his organization “publicly attributed some attacks on U.K. networks, including telecoms networks, to Russia.”“As far as we know, those networks didn’t have any Russian kit in them, anywhere,” he said.The dispute over what risk the company presents has complicated Britain’s efforts to avoid becoming entangled in the trade war between the United States and China. As it prepares to exit the European Union, Britain is seeking new trade deals with both Washington and Beijing.China is a small but growing trade partner with Britain. Businesses exported a record 22.3 billion pounds, about $28.8 billion, worth of goods to China in 2017, making it Britain’s sixth-largest trading partner. The United States is the largest, accounting for £112.2 billion worth of exports in 2017, according to a report from Parliament this month.

Supported byWith $100 million and a lot of volunteer labor, SpaceIL’s Beresheet spacecraft could be the first privately built vessel to reach the lunar surface.By Kenneth ChangIt started in 2010 with a Facebook post.“Who wants to go to the moon?” wrote Yariv Bash, a computer engineer.A couple of friends, Kfir Damari and Yonatan Winetraub responded, and the three met at a bar in Holon, a city south of Tel Aviv. At 30, Mr. Bash was the oldest.“As the alcohol levels in our blood increased, we became more determined,” Mr. Winetraub recalled.They formed a nonprofit, SpaceIL, to undertake the task. More than eight years later, the product of their dreams, a small spacecraft called Beresheet, blasted off on Thursday night atop a SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket at the Cape Canaveral Air Force Station in Florida. If the mission succeeds, it will be the first time that a private company has gone to the moon. It will also be a point of pride for Israel. Until now, only governmental space agencies of three superpower nations — the United States, the former Soviet Union and China — have accomplished an intact landing on the lunar surface.[Sign up to get reminders for space and astronomy events on your calendar.]The original goal was to compete in the Google Lunar X Prize competition, which was offering a $20 million grand prize for the first privately financed venture to land a robotic spacecraft on the moon. The founders initially envisioned a tiny lander that would weigh only a dozen pounds, cost just $10 million and make the trip by the end of 2012.The challenge turned out to be much harder and much more expensive. “We didn’t imagine, I think, how much time and effort it would take,” Mr. Damari said. After several extensions, the deadline for the Google Lunar X Prize passed a year ago without a winner. Even without the $20 million prize, SpaceIL persisted. Unlike many of the other competing teams that wanted to build profitable businesses, SpaceIL had given itself a mission, to inspire students in Israel to take an interest in science and engineering.“This is our bigger vision,” Mr. Damari said. SpaceIL would build the first Israeli spaceship to travel far from Earth, but for today’s students, “It's their job to build the next one,” he said.As part of SpaceIL’s parsimonious approach, Beresheet, which means “Genesis” or “in the beginning” in Hebrew, tagged along aboard the SpaceX rocket with an Indonesian communications satellite as well as a small experimental satellite for the United States Air Force.Beresheet will not take the quick, direct path to the moon. That would require a fuel-guzzling firing of a large engine to break out of Earth orbit and then another to slow down at the moon. Instead, with several engine firings, the spacecraft will slowly adjust its orbit, stretching to the outermost point until the moon’s gravity pulls it into lunar orbit.That is a long and winding, four million mile-long journey to reach a destination that is a quarter million miles away.In April, it is to land at a lava plain named Mare Serenitatis, or the Sea of Serenity. An instrument built by the Weizmann Institute of Science will measure the moon’s magnetic fields as it approaches, and that data could help give clear hints about the moon’s iron core. Beresheet is also carrying a durable backup of humanity’s knowledge in the form of a disc provided by the Arch Mission Foundation, containing 30 million pages of information, as well as a time capsule with Israeli cultural symbols and a Bible.Within a few days of its landing, Beresheet is expected to succumb to the heat of lunar noon. Then, its mission will end.The price tag to build and launch Beresheet ended up at $100 million, not $10 million, and the spacecraft bulked up to 1,300 pounds including fuel. The SpaceIL founders point out that this is still much cheaper and smaller than what a space agency like NASA would build.“It’s very refreshing in many ways,” said Opher Doron, the space division general manager at Israel Aerospace Industries, which partnered with SpaceIL. “It also puts a lot of pressure and responsibility on the project team.”The United States and the former Soviet Union sent robotic landers to the moon beginning in 1966, part of the space race that culminated with the Apollo 11 astronauts stepping foot on the moon in 1969. In 2013, China became the third nation to send a spacecraft to the moon, and this year, it became the first to land one on the moon’s far side.Back in November 2010, it was a rush for the SpaceIL founders just to get to the starting line. The Google competition had been announced three years earlier. About 30 teams had already entered, and the deadline for submissions was the end of the year. From friends and family, Mr. Bash, Mr. Damari and Mr. Winetraub scrounged $50,000 for the entry fee, and on Dec. 31, they sent in the money and the paperwork with less than two hours to spare.From the beginning, their pitch was geared to philanthropists, not venture capitalists. “It’s a very different story than a commercial company trying to explain how they’re going to return the investment of the investors,” Mr. Bash said. “It’s one of the best decisions we made in the beginning.”One of the people who heard their presentation was Morris Kahn, an Israeli telecommunications billionaire. “I gave them $100,000, no questions asked,” Mr. Kahn said, “and I said, ‘Start.’”Mr. Kahn said at the beginning he just wanted to help. “Eventually, not only I got sucked in, I sucked myself in,” he said. “I got excited by this project.”Mr. Kahn became president of SpaceIL and recruited other investors including Sheldon Adelson, a Las Vegas casino billionaire and major donor to the Republican Party in the United States. As a nonprofit, SpaceIL also tapped the energy of volunteers. “If you were interested in space and wanted to do something beyond your day job, you could volunteer and give some of your time,” Mr. Winetraub said. As full-fledged development started, Mr. Kahn brought in Eran Privman, who had been an executive at his companies, to run the organization.But as the 2018 Lunar X Prize deadline approached, the effort appeared doomed. SpaceIL still needed $30 million more. In late 2017, Mr. Kahn resigned. A fund-raising plea by Mr. Privman at the end of that year fell short. A few months later, Mr. Kahn returned, replacing Mr. Privman with Ido Anteby, a longtime manager at the Israel Atomic Energy Commission, to shepherd the final construction and testing of Beresheet.Mr. Kahn agreed to provide any remaining money needed.And now SpaceIL is approaching its end in a few months. “A day after, all of us will need to look for a job,” said Eran Shmidt, deputy manager of SpaceIL.Mr. Winetraub joked, “This is a great job description. If it's successful, then you're fired.”However, commercial interest in the moon has revived during the Trump administration. In November, NASA announced the selection of nine companies, including several former Lunar X Prize contestants, that will compete for contracts to take small payloads to the moon. The European Space Agency is considering a similar program.Israel Aerospace Industries has signed an agreement with OHB System, a German satellite manufacturer, to compete for the European work, and Mr. Doron said the company is in discussion about collaborating with some of the NASA-selected companies.The SpaceIL founders have largely moved on. Mr. Winetraub is now a graduate student at Stanford, pursuing a doctorate in cancer research. Mr. Bash is chief executive of Flytrex, a company developing drones to deliver consumer goods. Mr. Damari is chief product and strategy officer for Tabookey, a cybersecurity start-up.When they started SpaceIL at the bar, they were all single. “We were in a really different place back then,” Mr. Damari said. On Thursday, he was in Florida to watch the launch with his wife and two children. “I never imagined my big boy is five years old and actually the age he will remember,” Mr. Damari said.An earlier version of this article misstated the English name of Mare Serenitatis, the part of the moon where SpaceIL's Beresheet spacecraft will land. It is the Sea of Serenity, not the Sea of Tranquility.Kenneth Chang has been at The Times since 2000, writing about physics, geology, chemistry, and the planets. Before becoming a science writer, he was a graduate student whose research involved the control of chaos.  @kchangnyt 

Supported byCalifornia TodayBy Jill CowanGood morning.(Here’s the sign-up, if you don’t already get California Today by email.)As consumers, workers and communities push back against the seemingly boundless power and wealth of big tech companies, they’re starting to find it may be harder than it sounds to quit corporations that provide now-crucial services.My colleague Kate Conger, who covers privacy, policy and labor for The Times’s Tech team, wrote about a Berkeley City Council proposal to boycott Amazon:Under state law, no city in California is allowed to share data with Immigration and Customs Enforcement. But city officials have been left to determine how they’ll comply with the law — and many cities are now scrutinizing the behavior of the tech companies they rely on for city services.Richmond approved an ordinance in June that will end its contract with Vigilant Solutions, a data analytics company that does business with ICE. Other Bay Area cities, including Oakland, Berkeley and Alameda are weighing similar proposals that, if enacted, could lead the cities to sever ties with tech giants like Amazon and Microsoft.Berkeley’s City Council is currently weighing a proposal to boycott Amazon in protest against the tech giant’s contracts with ICE and Customs and Border Protection. Given Amazon’s business relationships with these agencies, Berkeley should “commit to finding ethical alternatives,” two City Council members, Kriss Worthington and Cheryl Davila, wrote in a memo. The City Council is also scrutinizing its business with Microsoft and Thompson Reuters over the companies’ ICE contracts.“We’re subsidizing these deportation policies,” said Brian Hofer, a lawyer who has pushed cities to adopt legislation that limits their business relationships with tech firms that contract with ICE.The Berkeley City Council is expected to debate the proposed legislation this month. Berkeley, which was at the forefront of the sanctuary city movement, relies on Amazon for a range of web-hosting and infrastructure services. Now, the city is struggling to align its sanctuary traditions with its digital needs.Dee Williams-Ridley, the city manager, recommended against the boycott because it would be too costly for the city to move off Amazon. “Adoption of the proposed Amazon boycott would have a huge negative impact to the citywide operations,” Ms. Williams-Ridley wrote in a memo reviewed by The New York Times. The city uses Amazon to host housing and mental health programs, do cybersecurity, and to manage city documents. It also relies on other tech companies, such as Airbnb and Nextdoor, which in turn host their services on Amazon servers.“I sort of despair about what we can do at this local level, frankly,” said Kate Harrison, a member of the City Council. “If we identify a company involved in data brokerage for ICE, and we have an alternative, we should take the alternative. It’s a balancing act.”Mr. Hofer said that the impact would be stronger as more cities pass similar legislation and that he hoped to bring the initiative statewide. Starting in Silicon Valley is important because of the region’s connection to the technology industry, he added. “It’s symbolic that we’re doing it here; we’re the same people that are creating the technology that’s doing this,” Mr. Hofer said.“It’s ideological and not necessarily grounded in practicality,” said Susan Wengraf, a City Council member. “It’s Berkeley,” she added with a soft laugh. “What can I tell you?”(We often link to content on sites that limit access for nonsubscribers. We appreciate your reading Times stories, but we’d also encourage you to support local news if you can.)• As a lobbyist, David Bernhardt fought on behalf of California farmers to weaken Endangered Species Act protections for a tiny fish so they could access water. Now, as an official at the Interior Department who’s drawn President Trump’s notice, Mr. Bernhardt is the latest in a line of federal officials hired to regulate industries they once worked for. [The New York Times]• What’s going on in the struggle to control Pacific Gas and Electric? Here’s the latest. [The New York Times]• The border wall has taken a back seat in congressional negotiations to another issue that has exploded recently: immigrant detention. Here’s why. [The New York Times]• A man unleashed a hail of gunfire at a cafe in San Diego’s Hillcrest neighborhood on Wednesday, officials said. The police are investigating whether the shooting, which rattled an L.G.B.T.Q. community already on edge, was a hate crime. No one was hit. [The San Diego Union-Tribune]• Willie McCoy, a 21-year-old rapper known as Willie Bo, was sleeping in his car at a Taco Bell before he was shot and killed by the Vallejo police. Officers said he reached for a handgun in his lap when they told him to show his hands. His family is calling for answers. [The San Francisco Chronicle]• As a storm borne by an “atmospheric river” drenches the Bay Area, in the Sierra Nevada, meteorologists are warning of “roofalanches.” [The Mercury News]• A mountain lion that researchers had recently started tracking in the Napa area was shot dead after it preyed on a family’s livestock. Its death led to anger from community members. [The Press Democrat]• A bubble gum pink drive-in movie theater showing a film about fish is one piece of the Desert X art exhibition, which is open at sites around the Coachella Valley through April 21. [The New York Times]• Activision Blizzard, the Santa Monica-based video game publisher, said it was laying off 800 people this week. But stop blaming Fortnite. [Wired]• Somehow, Los Angeles doesn’t have the worst traffic in the country, a new report says. (Boston, Washington D.C., Chicago and New York all had it worse during peak commuting hours.) Angelenos, on average, still spent 128 hours stuck on the road last year, though. [Curbed LA]• Randolph Jewelers, a Placerville shop that opened in the Gold Rush era, is set to close. It’s the oldest continuously operating jewelry store in the state, and shopping there became a kind of rite of passage for locals. [The Sacramento Bee]It’s Valentine’s Day. Maybe rethink the roses and read a tiny California love story instead. Here’s a funny, sweet one from Hilary Burg:We first saw each other at Peet’s on Lakeshore in Oakland. Then he rescued a dog. We frequented the same dog park in Piedmont. One time, his dog jumped on me. I told him to get his dog trained. He turned from me in a huff. I joked another day about his dog’s drool. He looked mad. He does NOT like me at all, I thought to myself. Still, I ALWAYS stopped at the dog park if I saw his red Nissan. Turns out he loved me and I loved him back. We’ve been together with various dogs for 20 years.California Today goes live at 6:30 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.Jill Cowan grew up in Orange County, went to school at U.C. Berkeley and has reported all over the state, including the Bay Area, Bakersfield and Los Angeles — but she always wants to see more. Follow along here or on Twitter, @jillcowan.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.

Supported byLetter 95By Damien CaveThe Australia Letter is a weekly newsletter from our Australia bureau chief. Sign up to get it by email.___Earlier this week, a colleague, David D. Kirkpatrick, was detained by the Egyptian authorities for several hours then forced onto a flight back to London.His crime was simply flying to Cairo — and doing journalism that looked critically at Egypt’s leaders, both for The New York Times and in a recent book, “Into the Hands of the Soldiers.”As far as threats to the press go, it was not as bad as it could be. Three journalists have already been killed this year just for doing their jobs, according to the Committee to Protect Journalists, and 54 were killed in 2018, including Jamal Khashoggi.David’s experience, though, points to a related and more pervasive issue: the ways governments threaten, intimidate and undermine journalists and factual reporting.Visas are an especially familiar weapon. Authoritarian countries like China, North Korea, Venezuela and Cuba often make it difficult for foreign reporters to get journalism visas and the right to report.Other countries, like Papua New Guinea, are more subtle about it. They tend to ignore requests for press visas, forcing some of us to go anyway on a different kind of visa, which then gives the authorities the ability to kick us out.When I was in Manus, an island there, reporting on the detention center there in late 2017, for example, I was visited repeatedly by the authorities, then detained for more than an hour at the airport in Port Moresby as they made clear that it was time for me to go.Many of The Times’s foreign correspondents have experienced this sort of thing (or worse) over the years, in various places.Being a foreigner and a New York Times reporter tends to help — it’s always local journalists who face greater danger, as I saw in Mexico and Iraq — and the threats we face did not used to be something many journalists or media companies talked about very often.But what’s interesting is that for The Times at least, that’s changing.Our new publisher, A.G. Sulzberger, has been especially vocal as of late, advocating on behalf of journalism and journalists, and trying to persuade President Trump to tone down his rhetoric, such as his references to journalists as the “enemy of the people.”This week that dispute flared up yet again.A.G.’s main point speaks to something that is sometimes easy to overlook; that however flawed journalists and our journalism may be, demonizing journalists — especially as a group — hurts democracy, and has the potential to be deadly.Just this week, the authorities in Maryland said a Coast Guard lieutenant and self-described white nationalist who had been arrested was plotting to kill several prominent American journalists, among others.“The phrase ‘enemy of the people’ is not just false, it’s dangerous,” A.G. wrote in a statement this week responding to President Trump’s latest broadside (perhaps inspired by this story from us with new details about his efforts to undermine the special counsel investigation). “It has an ugly history of being wielded by dictators and tyrants.”What you’re seeing now, A.G. argues (along with many political scientists), is the spread of that particular virus.When the only defenders of journalism are journalists — when elected officials in a democracy behave as if reporters are combatants — leaders with tyrannical instincts become emboldened.You see it not just in Egypt, but also in Turkey, Hungary, China and the Philippines, where the authorities recently arrested Maria Ressa, a co-founder of an online news start-up critical of President Rodrigo Duterte.Australia is also not immune to politically stoked media hatred. Many Australians hear echoes of Trump’s statements in the outbursts of Peter Dutton, the home affairs minister. But you can also hear it once in a while from Prime Minister Scott Morrison, who has a tendency to dismiss tough questions from reporters with accusations of bias, while former prime ministers — Kevin Rudd and Malcolm Turnbull — have turned their frustration with the Murdoch-media into extended rants.This does not seem to be something that’s likely to go away. Making the media an enemy is an easy way to delegitimize coverage that aims for accountability, and because the journalism business is struggling and increasingly distrusted, journalists are easy to dismiss as a group.The only antidote that I can see is you — readers and supporters of independent credible journalism.So the next time you see hear someone criticize “the media,” do me a favor: Ask them to be more specific and remind them that we’re not a monolith.Yes, there are journalists who make mistakes, yes there are forces of partisanship and commercialism that taint what you get from some outlets — but there is also a lot of strong work being done to examine and scrutinize power, and provide people with the information they need to make good decisions.There is a mission to guide us — we seek the truth and help people understand the world. And there is courage and determination in our ranks.That’s what David represents. That’s what Egypt’s leaders fear.Now for a few examples from the past week. Share your thoughts by email (nytaustralia@nytimes.com) or in our NYT Australia Facebook group.___This feature on the Catholic Chruch’s struggle with sexual abuse was reported from four continents, and it’s filled with reporting and insight that made me wonder about not just religious institutions but the state of the human condition.Just when you think you’ve read and seen it all with this scandal, something new emerges.___Sui-Lee Wee, one of our business reporters in China, just keeps turning out one jaw-dropping story after another. You should follow her on Twitter if you aren’t already.And you should read her investigation into the business of DNA and Chinese surveillance. Really.___• Where are smartphones heading? And do we really need what they’re offering? Brian Chen tries to break it down for us.• What should you look for when you first land in a new city? Travel has the answers.• You must love someone’s perfume or cologne … but how do you find one for yourself? Here are a few useful tips to scent up your life.___A pretty varied mix this week, reflecting our effort to be both more ambitious and more fun.News and Features• A War Memorial Is Being Expanded. Some Say It Whitewashes History. The Australian War Memorial, at a cost of hundreds of millions of dollars, will grow to commemorate recent conflicts, including war zones in which Australia still has troops.• Julie Bishop Quits Australian Politics, Adding to Exodus of Conservative Women: Ms. Bishop, the former foreign minister, said she would not run in the next election. Last year she lost a party leadership vote that would have made her prime minister.• Australia’s Prime Minister Blames ‘Sophisticated State Actor’ for Parliament Hack: Australia has been unable to determine which country was behind a hack of Parliament and the country’s political parties weeks before a national election.• New Zealand’s Former Leader Is Depicted by China as Praising Its Policies: Former Prime Minister Jenny Shipley gave an interview to a Communist Party newspaper in December. This week, it ran her remarks as a glowing op-ed piece.For Fun• Opinion: How Australia’s Image Went from Crocodile Dundee to $39 Hand Soap: The evolution of Antipodean hip.• Nigella Lawson Was Never Just a Domestic Goddess: The culinary star looks back at her career and the international celebrity — and scrutiny — that came with it.• How an App Creates ‘Disturbingly Agile Millennial Thumbs’: Isabella Kwai, a reporter in Australia, rarely takes notes on paper anymore and instead uses her iPhone. She can still look sources in the eye while typing.___David Sanger, The Times’s national security correspondent, is in Sydney for a handful of events all on Mon. Feb 25.If you care about foreign policy and the shifting nature of global power, this is a rare opportunity to hear about it straight from the man whose been reporting on it for three decades at The New York Times. Here are the details:• 10 a.m. to 10:45 a.m. A.E.D.T., join David Sanger on a group phone call with Jamie Tarabay, a Times correspondent based in Sydney. Free for Times subscribers anywhere. Register here.• 12:30 p.m. to 1:30 p.m. A.E.D.T. How are nations using cyberconflict to compete with and undercut each other? David will be speak on this and more at the Ibis Room the Pullman Sydney in Hyde Park. Free, but registration required.• 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. A.E.D.T., For this discussion and audience Q. &amp; A. at the University of Sydney, David will be joined by former colleague and New York Times journalist Raymond Bonner and a co-founder of the Sydney Cybersecurity Network, Dr. Frank Smith. Free, but registration required.Damien Cave is the Australia bureau chief for The New York Times. He’s covered more than a dozen countries for The Times, including Mexico, Cuba, Iraq and Lebanon. Follow him on Twitter: @damiencave.

Supported byLet us help you start your day. By Remy Tumin(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning. Turkey’s mass trials come to an end, a French city opens its borders to migrants, and milk isn’t just for mammals. Here’s the latest: Courts are close to concluding the mass trials of thousands of security personnel and civilians accused of involvement in a failed coup attempt in 2016 that left 251 people dead and more than 2,000 wounded.The trials have widened political divisions in the country and deepened a sense of persecution among opponents of the government of President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. The government and its supporters are welcoming the sweeping verdicts, but critics say the process has been deeply flawed.The scene: Tensions run high in many of the trials. Government supporters erupt with anger, and police officers and prison guards line courtrooms the size of sports arenas. The judges are often disdainful, and critics say they are far from impartial.Further arrests: Mr. Erdogan’s government continues to crack down weekly on those suspected of being associated with the man it accuses of organizing the plot, the Muslim cleric Fethullah Gulen. Mr. Gulen, who lives in the United States, has also been indicted, but Americans say there is not enough evidence for his extradition.President Trump said he was “not happy” with a bipartisan border security compromise negotiated by congressional leaders in time to avert another partial government shutdown, but he did not say whether he would veto it.Details: The deal would provide $1.375 billion for physical barriers at the southern border with Mexico, far lower than the $5.7 billion Mr. Trump had demanded. And it would allow for 55 miles of new fencing, a fraction of the 200-mile steel-and-concrete wall the president had envisioned.The deal appeared to be a win for Democrats, who were able to weave in a reduction in the number of migrants and undocumented immigrants who can be held in detention centers.What’s next? The deal could be finalized rapidly but would still need to be approved by both the House and Senate, as well as Mr. Trump.Go deeper: In an interactive, we lay out what barriers are already in place on the southern border.For the last four years, the Chinese technology giant has had a contract to fulfill the communication needs of the Czech president, Milos Zeman, and his staff.But in recent months, parts of the Czech government have taken aggressive steps to limit the use of Huawei in 5G technology — to the surprise of Mr. Zeman, who is known for being close to China. The fight is being watched across Europe, where the company is running into increasing difficulty.The response: Huawei has threatened legal action against the Czech cybersecurity agency, which labeled the company a national security threat, as well as economic retaliation against the country.Bigger picture: The U.S. has aggressively engaged in a campaign warning European countries to steer clear of Chinese technology companies, like Huawei, that officials view as proxies for espionage.The company also stands in the cross hairs of the U.S.-China trade war that has yet to be resolved, with negotiations underway in Beijing this week. Mr. Trump said that if the talks went well, he would consider delaying the March 2 deadline to reach a trade deal and the higher tariffs on Chinese goods that would come with it.The French government disapproves, but one local mayor doesn’t care: He says he’ll continue sheltering Africans crossing the Spanish border into France.For Jean-René Etchegaray, the mayor of Bayonne, welcoming migrants into the small French Basque Country city is a humanitarian obligation. He wants the migrants, while in his city, to exist in a “condition of dignity,” as he put it. “I don’t think I can do less,” he said.Background: Since Italy all but closed its borders to migrants and France has tried to close its border to migrants coming from Italy, Spain has become the prime gateway into Europe for migrants from Africa, with more than 57,000 arriving last year.Pushback: The mayor’s approach has pitted him against President Emmanuel Macron, even as he has become a case study for how to manage Europe’s migration crisis. The government has not offered any aid.Brexit: Prime Minister Theresa May pleaded with British lawmakers to wait another two weeks before they vote on her Brexit plan and possibly seize control of the process. The British leader says she needs more time to negotiate with the E.U., but critics say she is trying to pressure Parliament by running down the clock on the March 29 deadline for withdrawal.France: Anti-Semitic episodes have risen sharply, jumping 74 percent last year, officials said. The figures illustrate the rise of the far right, especially online.El Chapo: The Mexican drug kingpin was found guilty after a three-month trial in New York that exposed the inner workings of his brutal and corrupt cartel. He faces life in prison.Germany: A police official says that Facebook-based misinformation has become such a serious threat to public safety that he has set up a special team to fight rumors through on-the-ground detective work.Spain: Twelve people went on trial for their roles in Catalonia’s attempt to secede from Spain in 2017, and Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez is scrambling to keep the issue from toppling his leadership.Switzerland: A company called Climeworks thinks it can suck carbon dioxide from the atmosphere in large enough quantities to make a difference against global warming.21 Savage: The British-born rapper will be released on bond after spending more than a week in the custody of U.S. immigration officials, who said they had arrested him for being in the country illegally, his lawyers said.Soccer: Paris St.-Germain motored past Manchester United without its stars, winning a Champions League match 2-0. It will need them back eventually, our columnist writes, but on Tuesday it didn’t matter.Science: Milk is supposed to be a distinguishing characteristic of mammals. But many species make it, or some variety of it, scientists have discovered. Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Our food editor, Sam Sifton, gives you 38 ways to get dinner on the table, no recipe required.Should you take that promotion? Here’s whether to say yes or no.There are many theories on how to keep flowers fresh, and our reporter tried to find the best one.The wintry storms raging around the U.S. this week aren’t, thankfully, bringing with them the plunging temperatures of the recent polar vortex. That brutal blast of cold offered a reminder of the one temperature where the Fahrenheit scale agrees with Celsius: minus 40.Both scales address two major calibration points (freezing and boiling), but divide the temperature range between them in differently sized degrees. There are a lot more degrees in Fahrenheit, and the two intersect at just that one point.Daniel Fahrenheit, an 18th-century physicist and inventor, made his scale for a mercury-in-glass thermometer that was the first accurate and practical way to measure temperature.He used a frigid mix of ice, water and salt to define zero degrees. Then he borrowed and refined other reference points from an existing scale, which is how other commonly used points ended up with untidy values like 32 for water’s freezing point and 212 for its boiling point.Anders Celsius, whose lifetime overlapped Fahrenheit’s, set those reference points at 100 for freezing and zero for boiling. Those were reversed after his death.Kenneth Chang, a science reporter who says he “hates the Fahrenheit scale — and miles and ounces and those other British units that even the British dropped decades ago,” wrote today’s Back Story.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.

Supported byLet us help you start your day.By Alisha Haridasani Gupta(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.India’s prime minister turns a religious event into a political one, Jeff Bezos challenges a tabloid newspaper and music’s biggest stars get ready for the Grammys. Here’s the latest:Every six years, tens of millions of Hindus make a religious pilgrimage to the northern state of Uttar Pradesh to take a dip in the holy waters of the Ganges River — one of the holiest events in the Hindu calendar and among the world’s largest gatherings of humanity.This year’s festival aligns with national elections that are expected to be held in April or May, providing Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Hindu nationalist bloc, the Bharatiya Janata Party, with a prized opportunity to woo voters and deflect from political and economic woes.By the numbers: Mr. Modi and his close ally, Yogi Adityanath, a monk turned chief minister of the state, have spent $600 million to turn this Kumbh into the most lavish one yet, adding nine new highway flyovers; 22 bridges; 20,000 trash cans; 122,500 toilets; and a new airport terminal.Analysis: Critics argue that Mr. Modi and his party have politicized religion in a secular country, often catering to a Hindu base at the expense of minority communities, such as Muslims.Separately: A nun’s accusations of rape against a bishop in Kerala have shaken the country’s Catholics, driving a wedge between those who have called for reforms and those who want to maintain unity amid rising a riding tide of Hindu nationalism.Sheikha Latifa — one of 30 children of the ruler of Dubai, Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum — tried to escape to the U.S. via India last March, informing her friends that she would be free soon.Less than a week later, she went silent and, in December, her family released photos of her back at home. Her mysterious case has since become a stain on Dubai’s globalized image. Background: In a secret video she recorded before her planned departure from Dubai, Sheikha Latifa described her life of constricting privilege.She said she first tried to escape the kingdom many years ago but was taken back immediately and held in solitary confinement for more than three years in which she was frequently beaten and deprived of medical care.At 19, when she was released, she still wasn’t free: She could spend her money only on hobbies and sports. She wasn’t allowed to study medicine, as she wanted, or travel.Analysis: Like the accounts of women who have tried to escape Saudi Arabia, Sheikha Latifa’s case has marred Dubai’s glittering image, reminding the world of the few freedoms women have there, regardless of status or nationality. In other news from the region: Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman of Saudi Arabia said in 2017, the year before the dissident journalist Jamal Khashoggi was killed in Turkey, that he would use “a bullet” on Mr. Khashoggi, according to current and former American and foreign officials with direct knowledge of intelligence reports.In a surprise blog post last week, Jeff Bezos, the founder of Amazon, accused the tabloid newspaper The National Enquirer of “extortion and blackmail,” spurring federal prosecutors to review his claims.Explainer: Last month, The Enquirer published an 11-page exposé on Mr. Bezos’ extramarital affair with Lauren Sanchez, a former host of the Fox TV show “So You Think You Can Dance.” The piece, which included paparazzi shots of the couple and their text messages, appeared a day after Mr. Bezos announced he was divorcing his wife of 25 years, MacKenzie.The piece set off questions that the coverage was politically motivated. David Pecker, the chairman of American Media Inc., which publishes The Enquirer, is close to President Trump, who has repeatedly derided Amazon and Mr. Bezos’ other company, The Washington Post.After The Enquirer published the piece, Mr. Bezos began his own investigation into how the paper obtained his private messages and its motives.Mr. Bezos’ response: In his blog post, Mr. Bezos said the paper was threatening to publish graphic photographs of him, including a “below-the-belt selfie,” if he didn’t publicly affirm that The Enquirer’s reporting was not motivated by politics.“If in my position I can’t stand up to this kind of extortion, how many people can?” wrote Mr. Bezos. You can read excerpts from his blog post here. And here’s a timeline of how events unfolded.Analysis: “By using a digital platform to bring his side of the story directly to the masses, Mr. Bezos has done something both admirable and also a little scary,” writes Kara Swisher, our tech opinion columnist. “It is perhaps the best illustration of the in-your-face aggressiveness that has made him the richest man in the world.”When a mining dam collapsed in the town of Brumadinho last month, it unleashed a deluge of toxic mud that stretched for five miles, crushing homes and offices and killing more than 150 people.But the tragedy was hardly a surprise, experts told us.Analysis: There are 88 mining dams in Brazil built like the one that failed: enormous reservoirs of mining waste held back by little more than walls of sand and silt.Even more alarming, at least 28 sit directly uphill from cities or towns, with more than 100,000 people living in especially risky areas if the dams failed, an estimate by The New York Times found.How we know: Our team interviewed engineers and locals to take an expansive look at the disaster, reconstructing the mud’s deadly journey and illustrating how these dams are built and what led the one in Brumadinho to crumble.Thailand: Hours after his sister entered the race for prime minister, King Vajiralongkorn rebuked the move as “highly inappropriate,” effectively ending her candidacy, in an episode that upended the already volatile political landscape.South Korea: The country signed an agreement to share the cost of the American military base there, increasing its contribution by 8.2 percent. The agreement aims to ease fears that President Trump might use the reduction of U.S. troops as a bargaining chip when he meets with North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, this month.Turkey: Ankara condemned China’s mass internment of its Uighur Muslim minority as a “great shame for humanity” and urged Beijing to close down the camps in Xinjiang, said to hold an estimated million people. It was a rare rebuke from a Muslim-majority nation. China dismissed the statement as a “serious violation of the facts.”Huawei: The Chinese company threatened legal action against the Czech Republic after its cybersecurity agency issued a formal warning about the risks of using Huawei technology, joining a growing wave of skepticism in Europe toward the telecom giant.Grammys: The music industry’s annual award ceremony kicks off imminently, with Alicia Keys hosting. Kendrick Lamar, Drake, Cardi B and the country singer Kacey Musgraves are among the nominees for album of the year, but will that be enough to put out concerns about the show’s lack of diversity?Gender equality on the waves: Female surfers are trying to break into the male-dominated arena of big-wave contests — and to get paid as much as their counterparts.No chance of a second date: A rare male Sumatran tiger called Asim was matched with a female named Melati. But their first meeting at the London Zoo quickly escalated into aggression and he mauled her to death.Hunga Tonga-Hunga Ha’apai: The young island in the South Pacific, birthed in an underwater volcano eruption four years ago, could unearth clues about how water shaped the landscape of Mars.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Transform cauliflower into a weeknight vegan curry. (Sign up for the Five Weeknight Dishes newsletter for more recipe recommendations.)Word of the day: gynandromorph. An organism that has both male and female physical characteristics in various parts of its body, like this rare cardinal bird.Is your child spending money on in-app purchases? We compiled a few ways to avoid “bait apps.”Once you’ve Marie Kondo-ed your belongings, what do you do next?It was 1983, and 47 million people in the U.S. were watching when Michael Jackson moonwalked across the stage to his hit “Billie Jean” during a TV special.The performance immortalized a move that re-entered the public consciousness recently, when Virginia’s governor, Ralph Northam, said he had dressed as Jackson and done the moonwalk during a dance contest in 1984.The move, in which the dancer glides backward while appearing to walk forward, inspired Mr. Northam, as well as the title of Jackson’s 1988 autobiography. In it, the performer describes the moonwalk as “a break-dance step, a ‘popping’ type of thing that black kids had created dancing on street corners in the ghetto.”Jackson didn’t invent the moonwalk, which had been performed for decades by a range of entertainers (albeit often by a more literal name, the backslide). But it was the King of Pop who would be remembered, as one dance critic put it, “coasting backward across the stage, step by gliding step, as if on a cushion of air.”Chris Stanford, on the briefings team, wrote today’s Back Story.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.Alisha Haridasani Gupta writes the Morning Briefing.  @alisha__g 

Supported byLet us help you start your day.By Alisha Haridasani Gupta(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning. Hong Kong’s illicit wildlife trade, North Korea’s unusual — and addictive — Lunar New Year gifts, and a deeply troubling Bonsai theft. Here’s the latest: House and Senate negotiators say they reached an “agreement in principle” to avert another government shutdown at the end of the week.President Trump said he was “not happy” with the deal, although he didn’t signal whether he would sign it or veto it.Details: The deal would provide $1.375 billion for physical barriers at the southern border with Mexico, far lower than the $5.7 billion Mr. Trump had demanded. And it would allow for 55 miles of new fencing, a fraction of the 200-mile steel-and-concrete wall the president had envisioned.The deal appeared to be a win for Democrats, who were able to weave in a reduction of the number of migrants and undocumented immigrants who can be held in detention centers.What’s next? The deal could be finalized rapidly, but would still need to be approved by both the House and Senate, as well as Mr. Trump.Today’s word is “bollard”: That’s a thick, short post, usually made of iron or steel. The deal allows for only bollard fencing. Here are the other kinds of barriers already at the border.Every year, vast amounts of exotic animal products, like shark fins and elephant ivory, flow through Hong Kong. Most of it is headed for China, the world’s largest wildlife market.The latest victims of the trade are pangolins from Africa, Southeast Asia and elsewhere. Their meat is considered a delicacy in southern China and their scales are a prized ingredient in traditional Chinese medicine. Four of the eight species are now endangered.By the numbers: Hong Kong officials estimate that they’ve seized more than $71 million worth of wildlife contraband in the past five years, a figure that suggests the possibility of a larger, billion-dollar industry that remains under the radar.Enforcement: The authorities claim they are cracking down on the illegal trade, but few cases have led to prosecutions and individual smugglers have gotten away with just a few weeks in prison. It is also a Sisyphean task to inspect every parcel going in and out of the city, home to one of the world’s most voluminous ports and airports.Alternative: Officials have suggested focusing on the demand side of the equation instead.“I think the community has begun to accept that if something is not good for the environment, it should be phased out,” said one official. “The world is changing.”Parliament’s lower house narrowly passed legislation that would let asylum seekers held in offshore detention centers fly to Australia for medical treatments.Two or more doctors would need to request medical evacuations, to be reviewed by an independent medical panel. The home affairs minister could ultimately reject the transfer.What’s next? The measure now heads to the Senate, which passed an earlier version of the legislation last year.Background: Australia’s immigration policy, aimed at deterring dangerous sea crossings, keeps asylum seekers who try to enter the country by boat from setting foot in the country. Many have been detained on the Pacific islands of Nauru and Manus for years in conditions of increasing concern for human rights groups and medical experts.Political implications: The vote was a blow for Prime Minister Scott Morrison, who strongly opposed the measure. It appears to be the first time since 1941 that the government had lost a key vote in the lower house.Four years ago, the Chinese giant was contracted to fulfill the communication needs of the offices of the Czech president, Milos Zeman, and his staff, in a historic castle complex in Prague.But in recent months, parts of the government have taken aggressive steps to limit the use of Huawei in 5G technology — to the surprise of Mr. Zeman, known for being close to China. The fight is being closely watched across Europe, where the company is running into increasing difficulty.The response: Huawei has threatened legal action against the Czech cybersecurity agency, which labeled it a national security threat, as well as economic retaliation against the country.Bigger picture: The U.S. has aggressively engaged in a campaign warning European countries to steer clear of Chinese technology companies, like Huawei, that officials view as proxies for espionage.All this while the company stands in the crosshairs of the U.S.-China trade war that has yet to be resolved, with negotiations kicking off in Beijing today.India: A fire broke out at a fully occupied hotel in New Delhi, killing at least 17 people, officials said. The cause has not yet been identified.Trade talks: President Trump said he would consider delaying the March 2 deadline, when tariffs on Chinese goods will increase sharply, if negotiations were going well. Two days of talks kick off in Beijing today and a main U.S. objective in any deal: penalties if China fails to keep its word.Turkey: Courts are close to concluding the mass trials of thousands of security personnel and civilians accused of involvement in the failed coup attempt in 2016 that left 251 people dead and more than 2,000 wounded. The trials have widened political divisions in the country and deepened a sense of persecution among opponents of the government of President Recep Tayyip Erdogan.Myanmar: A French tourist who was arrested and accused of flying a drone near the Parliament building in the capital, Naypyidaw, could face up to three years in prison, a local police official said.El Chapo: The Mexican drug kingpin was found guilty after a three-month trial in New York that exposed the inner workings of his brutal and corrupt cartel. He faces life in prison.Hungary: Prime Minister Viktor Orban announced that women with four or more children will no longer pay income taxes, the latest incentive he’s offered to increase the country’s dwindling population and work force without allowing in immigrants.Canada: The parliamentary ethics commissioner opened an inquiry into allegations that Prime Minister Justin Trudeau tried to influence the criminal investigation of a Montreal-based engineering company, a case that could dent his reputation in an election year.France: Anti-Semitic incidents have risen sharply, jumping 74 percent in 2018 to 541, government officials said. The figures illustrate the rise of the far-right, especially online, raising outrage and concern.North Korea: For Lunar New Year, some reports suggest that people in the country exchanged an unusual gift: crystal meth, a highly addictive drug that the country started manufacturing for export in the 1990s and has since become well-established in local markets.Bonsai theft: A prized 400-year-old tree was among seven stolen from a store near Tokyo, unsettling the owner so deeply that he begged the thieves to return them, and to water them in the meantime. Bonsai trees are notoriously difficult to keep, requiring meticulous shaping, watering and caring that creates a deep connection for their owners.Playing mom and dad: A hit new video game, Chinese Parents, has players raising a child from cradle to college. It’s spurring heated discussions online, thousands of reviews and sparking players’ feelings of empathy for their parents.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Looking for a light meal? Serve simmered kabocha squash over rice with a fried egg. Activities requiring you to stand instead of sit, such as tai chi, can reduce falls.South Asians have high rates of heart disease, and experts are beginning to understand why.The wintry storms raging around the U.S. this week aren’t, thankfully, bringing the plunging temperatures of the recent polar vortex. That brutal blast of cold offered a reminder of the one temperature where the Fahrenheit scale agrees with Celsius: minus 40.The scales both address two major calibration points (freezing and boiling), but divide the temperature range between them in differently sized degrees. There are a lot more in Fahrenheit, and the two intersect at just that one point.Daniel Fahrenheit, an 18th-century physicist and inventor, made his scale for a mercury-in-glass thermometer that was the first accurate and practical way to measure temperature.He used a frigid mix of ice, water and salt to define zero degrees. Then he borrowed and refined other reference points from an existing scale, which is how other commonly used points ended up with untidy values like 32 for water’s freezing point and 212 for its boiling point.Anders Celsius, whose lifetime overlapped Fahrenheit’s, set those reference points at 100 for freezing and 0 for boiling. Those were reversed after his death.Kenneth Chang, a science reporter who says he “hates the Fahrenheit scale — and miles and ounces and those other British units that even the British dropped decades ago,” wrote today’s Back Story.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.Alisha Haridasani Gupta writes the Morning Briefing.  @alisha__g 

Supported byGood Monday. Want this by email? Sign up here.Bipartisan negotiations to forge a border security deal broke down yesterday, potentially setting up the federal government for another shutdown ahead of a Friday deadline.What happened? “The impasse appears to center on Democratic demands for a limit on the number of unauthorized immigrants already in the country who could be detained by Immigration and Customs Enforcement officers, according to aides familiar with the talks,” according to the NYT. Republicans wanted an exception to the cap for criminals; Democrats said a proposed 16,500-bed cap left more than enough room for them.What’s at stake? The last shutdown, the longest in U.S. history, cost the American economy $11 billion and tanked President Trump’s political standing with the public. Another shutdown could cause more economic harm, hitting the I.R.S. just as tax season starts.What’s next? Lawmakers could pass another short-term spending bill, though many are reluctant to punt on a final budget agreement again. Meanwhile, Mr. Trump is preparing to hold a rally for supporters in El Paso. (Many in the city aren’t happy with that.) But he really has only two choices, according to Axios: shut down the government or declare a national emergency to get border wall money, and “both options are horrible.”The Amazon founder risked embarrassment by going public with what he said was an extortion attempt by The National Enquirer. So far, he’s scoring big points (“Saturday Night Live” jokes aside).His disclosure has gotten results. Federal prosecutors are reviewing his extortion claim, the NYT reports, citing unnamed sources. If The Enquirer’s parent company broke the law, it would be in violation of a nonprosecution agreement over its paying hush money to help President Trump in 2016. (A lawyer for the publisher’s chairman said yesterday that the company committed no crime.)And he’s winning the P.R. battle. At a time when billionaires are reviled, Maureen Dowd of the NYT writes, “the richest dude on earth has managed to come through a traumatic week inspiring admiration.” (Glenn Greenwald of The Intercept counters that it would be odd for Mr. Bezos to gain pity, given that Amazon “is a critical partner for the U.S. government in building an ever-more invasive, militarized and sprawling surveillance state.”)Where did The Enquirer go wrong? Danny Westneat of The Seattle Times points out that it picked a fight with the head of a company so powerful that it got Seattle to change its tax policies and won $3 billion in tax incentives from New York for office space. “You don’t pressure Amazon. It only goes the other way around,” Mr. Westneat writes.But Mr. Bezos could still lose. Jon Swartz of Barron’s notes that Amazon shares fell 2.6 percent on Friday. “His hands-on management is considered crucial to the success of the company and anything that pulls his attention away from day-to-day management is at least a concern for investors,” Mr. Swartz writes.Fears that Britain’s withdrawal from the E.U. could roil economies have now officially spread across the Atlantic.Wall Street has been warned about Brexit’s impact. “With less than seven weeks to go before the U.K. is due to leave the E.U., several S&amp;P 500 groups have for the first time put Wall Street on formal notice of the risks should London and Brussels fail to reach a divorce deal,” the FT reports. Companies like Lockheed Martin, McCormick, Expedia and Cadbury have all spoken out.Driving the concern are fears that a depressed pound could make American goods unaffordable in Britain, while the costs of imported British goods could rise. There’s also a fear about the broader effect of Brexit on global political and economic stability.American banks are also nervous. “While U.S. banks want Britain to maintain the closest possible ties with the EU after Brexit, U.K. banks and insurers are anxious they don’t become beholden to new laws made by Brussels,” Bloomberg reports.More Brexit news: The E.U.’s chief Brexit negotiator, Michel Barnier, said that he “will not reopen” the existing Brexit deal, but is open to reworking the political declaration that accompanies it. The British government is trying to secure an extra two weeks in which to win concessions from Europe by promising lawmakers another vote on Britain’s withdrawal options. And Prime Minister Theresa May has also offered concessions to the opposing Labour Party to break the current impasse in Parliament.Americans are getting a rude surprise: Their refunds appear to be getting smaller, despite President Trump and Republicans passing a huge set of tax cuts over a year ago.How big is the drop? “The average refund of $1,865 was 8.4 percent smaller than the average refund in the period last year,” Reuters reports, citing figures from the I.R.S. Heather Long of the WaPo adds that the number of people receiving a refund has fallen by nearly 25 percent so far. (The I.R.S. warns not to read too much into the figures, because this is just part of the data — a result of delayed processing due to the government shutdown.)Why is this happening? It’s not actually a sign that Americans are paying more in taxes. “People generally got a piece of their tax cut last year gradually in the form of lower withholding on their paychecks,” Joseph Rosenberg of the Urban-Brookings Tax Policy Center told the WaPo.People are angry nonetheless. The WaPo reports: “People have already taken to social media, using the hashtag #GOPTaxScam, to vent their anger. Many blame President Trump and the Republicans for shrinking refunds. Some on Twitter even said they wouldn’t vote for Trump again after seeing their refunds slashed.”The last class of tech companies that gained valuations of over $1 billion, including Uber and Airbnb, remade entire industries. Don’t expect the next wave to be nearly as flashy, according to Erin Griffith of the NYT.Who are they? They have names like Benchling, Checkr and Zola, and many create software for specific industries — including data analysis systems for farmers and background checks for gig workers.Why aren’t they as exciting as their predecessors? Ms. Griffith points out that Uber, Airbnb and their peers “built global empires by simply taking existing businesses — like taxis, food delivery and hotels — and making them mobile.” Easy opportunities to disrupt traditional businesses have dried up, forcing new companies to find smaller niches.But don’t underestimate their potential. “Maybe it’s not as sexy as the companies in the first wave,” the venture capitalist Kirsten Green conceded to the NYT. But Anand Sanwal of the data provider CB Insights said they were still growing fast, adding, “If you are one of those high-momentum companies, investors are going to be beating down your door because there is so much interest in investing in the next big winner.”Christine Lagarde, the managing director of the International Monetary Fund, warned yesterday of a global economy “that is growing more slowly than we had anticipated.”She sees four big risks. “Trade tensions and tariff escalations, financial tightening, uncertainty related to Brexit outcome and spillover impact and an accelerated slowdown of the Chinese economy” are all “clouds” on the horizon, she told the World Government Summit in Dubai.And they could spell trouble. “When there are too many clouds,” she added, it takes just one lighting bolt “to start the storm.”But the I.M.F. thinks the Fed is playing smart. “The fact that the Fed has put a pause on raising rates is going to provide a lot of support to the economy,” Gita Gopinath, the I.M.F.’s top economist, told the FT. “We endorse the Fed view of having a data-driven approach.”President Trump is expected to sign an executive order today meant to spur the development and regulation of artificial intelligence, Cade Metz of the NYT writes.The news: Mr. Trump is to introduce the “American A.I. Initiative,” which aims to better educate workers in the field, improve access to the cloud computing services and data needed to build A.I. systems, and promote cooperation with foreign powers.Context: “A.I. experts across industry, academia and government have long called on the Trump administration to make the development of artificial intelligence a major priority,” Mr. Metz writes, adding that they are “concerned that China could surpass the United States” in the development of such technologies.But: “The order does not set aside funds for A.I. research and development,” Mr. Metz adds, “and the administration provided few details on how it will put its new policies into effect.”Steve Mandel has stepped down as the head of the hedge fund Lone Pine Capital.Among the reasons Santander rescinded its offer to hire the investment banker Andrea Orcel? Reportedly his desire to attend the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland.Kristina Salen, a former chief financial officer of the shopping site Etsy, has joined Moda Operandi, a luxury fashion start-up, as its C.F.O.The English Premier League is looking to America for a successor to its C.E.O., Richard Scudamore. British candidates appear uninterested in the job.Deals• The aluminum-parts maker Arconic plans to break itself up. (WSJ)• Apollo Global Management is reportedly near a deal to buy Cox Enterprises’s 14 regional TV stations for about $3 billion. (Reuters)• The medical equipment maker Smith &amp; Nephew reportedly held talks to buy NuVasive, a maker of medical instruments for spinal surgeries, for more than $3 billion. (FT)• TPG Capital closed its seventh Asia-focused private equity fund at over $4.6 billion. (Reuters)Politics and policy• Democratic lawmakers are proposing steep new taxes on the superrich — and the public loves it. (NYT)• Senator Michael Bennet, Democrat of Colorado and a potential presidential candidate, says that cutting private health insurance as part of Medicare for all is a “bad opening offer.” (Politico)• President Trump succeeded in dividing Democrats by warning about socialism. (Hill)• The biggest star of Clive Davis’s exclusive pre-Grammys gala? Speaker Nancy Pelosi. (AP)Trade• Trade talks between the U.S. and China resume today in Beijing. (Straits Times)• White House officials have reportedly discussed a summit meeting between President Trump and President Xi Jinping of China at Mar-a-Lago next month to resolve the trade fight. (Axios)• The trade agreement to replace Nafta faces an uphill climb in Congress. (Axios)Tech• Some Amazon executives are reportedly reconsidering the decision to set up a campus in New York, but opponents think that might be a bluff. (WSJ, Recode)• Huawei has threatened to sue the Czech Republic if the country’s cybersecurity agency does not rescind a warning about the risk the company poses to the nation’s critical infrastructure. (NYT)• Sprint accused AT&amp;T of false advertising, saying that its rival is incorrectly telling customers that they are receiving 5G data service. (WSJ)• Tesla may finally be delivering Model 3s, but now it can’t keep up with servicing them. (WSJ)Best of the rest• A new activist hedge fund, Impactive Capital, is a rarity: It’s female- and minority-led. (WSJ)• Household staples, from diapers to baking soda, may get more expensive. (WSJ)• U.S. colleges raised $46.7 billion in the year that ended last June, led by Harvard with $1.4 billion. (Bloomberg)• Here’s a rundown of the 100 most sustainable U.S. companies, according to Barron’s. (Barron’s)• How the Fed’s recent U-turn on rates cascaded through global markets. (NYT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.

Supported byGood Friday. Want this by email? Sign up here.Jeff Bezos last night accused The National Enquirer of “extortion and blackmail” — with a very public account of a conspiracy theory involving the White House, an affair and at least one “below the belt” selfie.Context: In December, the tabloid published an exposé of Mr. Bezos’s affair with a TV personality, Lauren Sánchez, minutes after the Amazon chief announced that he was separating from his wife. The Enquirer published what it said were text messages between Mr. Bezos and Ms. Sánchez.The political angle: Speculation ensued that the report had arisen out of the closeness of The Enquirer’s chief, David Pecker, to the White House. Mr. Trump’s former lawyer, Michael Cohen, has admitted asking the publisher to pay $150,000 to a former Playboy model, Karen McDougal, to protect Mr. Trump’s election prospects, after she claimed to have had an affair with Mr. Trump. And Mr. Trump apparently has a distaste for reporting on him by the WaPo, which Mr. Bezos owns.The alleged blackmail: This week, according to emails published by Mr. Bezos, a lawyer for The Enquirer’s parent company, American Media Inc., proposed withholding compromising photographs. In exchange, the billionaire would publicly deny that The Enquirer’s coverage was politically motivated.But Mr. Bezos wouldn’t play ball: Instead, he wrote a blog post explaining what The Enquirer is said to have demanded. As the NYT put it, Mr. Bezos “pulled together random strands of the yearlong legal drama involving the president, American Media and the allegedly illegal payments to women.”Mr. Bezos’s bottom line: “Of course I don’t want personal photos published, but I also won’t participate in their well-known practice of blackmail, political favors, political attacks, and corruption. I prefer to stand up, roll this log over, and see what crawls out.”A federal judge approved Eddie Lampert’s $5.2 billion takeover bid for Sears at a court hearing yesterday, letting the bankrupt retailer’s C.E.O. try to turn the company around. But the judge also urged Mr. Lampert to avoid becoming a “cartoon character.”More from Michael Corkery of the NYT:The hearing was also a referendum on Mr. Lampert, the company’s chief executive and largest shareholder who has controlled Sears since 2005.Many of the company’s creditors accused Mr. Lampert and his hedge fund, ESL Investments, of running Sears into the ground, racking up losses and falling behind competitors, while spinning off the company’s most valuable assets in ways that enriched his hedge fund.A lawyer for several Sears vendors, referring to the message to Mr. Lampert, said: “The judge was warning that you claim to want to save tens of thousands of jobs, I hope that is what you do and not end up liquidating the company over the next few years.”We’re now just three weeks from the deadline for an agreement between the U.S. and China. With neither side budging yet, executives are calling for compromise.The stakes are high. If no deal is reached by March 1, President Trump plans to raise tariffs on $200 billion of Chinese goods to 25 percent, from 10 percent. So far, there has been little sign of a pact, and fears that it won’t arrive grew yesterday when Mr. Trump said he would not meet with President Xi Jinping of China before the deadline.Business chiefs are warning of the potential fallout. For instance, Stephen Schwarzman of Blackstone “has been phoning Mr. Trump and his senior advisers to warn that the failure to strike a deal will undermine the economy and roil markets,” according to Bob Davis of the WSJ.And China is being asked to give a little. “Mr. Schwarzman and other business leaders, including former Treasury Secretary Hank Paulson, are urging senior Chinese officials to make enough concessions to U.S. negotiators to allow Mr. Trump to claim a victory,” Mr. Davis adds. “That includes agreeing to a way the U.S. can enforce the deal should China fall short of its commitments.”Washington might start small. “Mr. Trump’s outside advisers remain convinced the two sides will reach a deal, even if it is a limited pact that involves mainly purchases and pledges China has already made to gradually open the auto, financial services and other markets,” Mr. Davis writes. “The two sides could then agree to negotiate further over tougher issues.”The lender’s $28 billion acquisition of SunTrust is the biggest in the banking industry since the 2008 financial crisis. The question is whether it will unleash a long-awaited wave of consolidation.Many have been predicting mergers for a while. Two years ago, Jamie Dimon of JPMorgan Chase said, “There are too many banks.” Last month, Bank of America’s C.E.O., Brian Moynihan, predicted, “There are now 6,000 odd banks, and you’ll find them continuing to consolidate.”Banding together makes sense. Mergers help smaller lenders gain scale to compete against national rivals and pool expenses to invest in technology. “The world is changing and we have to change,” Kelly King, BB&amp;T’s chairman and C.E.O., told the WSJ about his company’s deal.It’s a good time to merge. A loosening of regulations in Washington under the Trump administration helped persuade the banks to explore combining. (Not everyone is happy with that: Senator Elizabeth Warren and Representative Maxine Waters, both Democrats, are pushing for close scrutiny of the transaction.)F.O.M.O. could force others to act. Nobody wants to be left behind if things take off. “When a deal like this is done it makes everybody who is a mid-sized bank sort of sit back and say, ‘Well, what are we going to do?’ ” Bill Harrison, a former C.E.O. of JPMorgan, told the FT.The company’s Vision Fund is the biggest tech investor in the world, with designs on shaping the future by creating a web of closely linked companies. But two of its top executives have feuded with each other, according to Bloomberg, raising questions about whether SoftBank and its chief, Masayoshi Son, can achieve that goal.• SoftBank’s C.O.O., Marcelo Claure, was originally tasked with helping the company’s portfolio of investments work more closely. But he fought with Rajiv Misra, the head of the Vision Fund, Bloomberg reports.• Mr. Misra won an important battle: “The staff Claure has been hiring to improve operations were shifted over to work for Misra at the Vision Fund instead,” according to Bloomberg. Mr. Claure now has reduced responsibilities.• The two men played down any disagreements in a joint interview. “Our shared passion for our work should not be misread as tension,” Mr. Claure told Bloomberg.• The squabble creates a headache for their boss. “Masa probably finds this whole thing frustrating,” the analyst Chris Lane told Bloomberg. “He should be able to go and meddle everywhere, but he doesn’t have time for that and wants Marcelo to do it on his behalf. But what he really did was put two peers of equal stature in conflict.”A liberal group of Democrats unveiled their “Green New Deal” yesterday, which calls for the U.S. to eliminate additional emissions of carbon by 2030, Lisa Friedman and Glenn Thrush of the NYT write:• Drafted by Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and Senator Edward Markey, the measure is meant to be “a grand strategy that combats climate change, creates jobs and offers an affirmative response to the challenge to core party values posed by President Trump.”• “It includes a 10-year commitment to convert ‘100 percent of the power demand in the United States’ to ‘clean, renewable and zero-emission energy sources,’ to upgrade ‘all existing buildings’ to meet energy efficiency requirements, and to expand high-speed rail so broadly that most air travel would be rendered obsolete.”• But “the resolution has more breadth than detail and is so ambitious that Republicans greeted it with derision,” Ms. Friedman and Mr. Thrush add. And its legislative prospects are bleak; Speaker Nancy Pelosi reportedly has no plan to bring the resolution in its current form up for a vote.“To the 12,750 people who ordered a single takeaway on Valentine’s Day: You O.K. hun?” So read an ad for the payment app Revolut that was placed in the London Underground.But Revolut doesn’t have access to that kind of data. It “is only privy to the merchant and the amount of an individual transaction, and does not have further insight into what its customer’s money is being spent on,” Claer Barrett of the FT writes. A Revolut representative told the newspaper that the numbers used in the ads were “just made up.”That caught British regulators’ attention. The Advertising Standards Authority says it has passed several complaints on to the Financial Conduct Authority.Revolut may have lost consumers’ trust. The company was apparently following the lead of Spotify, which has deployed similar marketing tricks. But using fake numbers in a marketing campaign may not inspire confidence in a financial firm.Airbnb hired Fred Reid, the founding C.E.O. of the airline Virgin America, as its first global head of transportation.The Danish bank Nordea appointed Torbjorn Magnusson as its new chairman, replacing Bjorn Wahlroos amid pressure from an activist hedge fund.Bombardier named Danny Di Perna as the new head of its troubled rail unit, the third in three years.Deals• The food delivery service Postmates filed confidentially for an I.P.O. (Bloomberg)• Dell is said to be weighing a sale of its publicly traded SecureWorks cybersecurity unit. (Reuters)• Corporate boards are increasingly open to working with “white squire” investors to stave off challenges by other activist shareholders. (CNBC)• Amazon and the venture capital firm Sequoia led an investment in Aurora, a driverless-car start-up, at a valuation of over $2 billion. (WSJ)Politics and policy• A top priority of Congressional Democrats is limiting corporate gains from the Trump tax cuts. (NYT)• House Democrats took their first steps toward obtaining President Trump’s tax records. (NYT)• Mr. Trump said he’s willing to consider revising his unpopular cap on state and local income taxes. But Senator Charles Grassley, the head of the Senate Finance Committee, refuses. (Bloomberg)• John Dingell Jr., once one of the most powerful Democrats in the House who reshaped countless government regulations, died yesterday. He was 92. (NYT)Tech• Instagram banned graphic images of self-harm. (NYT)• The troubles of Apple and Huawei are particularly troubling for electronics supply chains. (FT)• The U.S. may retaliate against countries that use Huawei technology in critical infrastructure. (Bloomberg)• Some Amazon drivers may suffer similar tip issues as Instacart workers. (L.A. Times)Brexit• The E.U. refused requests from Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain to reopen the Brexit deal. But it promised to hold more talks to try to reassure lawmakers in London. (NYT)• Some British companies fear that a no-deal Brexit could more than double the cost of some goods. (FT)• U.S. lawmakers warned that Britain must keep a “soft” Irish border if London wants a trade deal with Washington. (FT)Best of the rest• David Malpass, President Trump’s pick for president of the World Bank, has described his agenda. (FT)• Ford will invest $1 billion in its Chicago plants. (CNBC)• Renault says that Carlos Ghosn may have spent company funds on a wedding party at Versailles. (NYT)• President Trump’s tax law created jobs. For tax lawyers, at least. (WSJ)• Prince Mohammed bin Salman of Saudi Arabia reportedly told a top aide in a conversation in 2017 that he would use “a bullet” on Jamal Khashoggi. (NYT)• Gucci and Adidas apologized and dropped products that were called out for being racist. (NYT)• How a Wall Street church amassed a $6 billion portfolio. (NYT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you next week.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.

