Supported byBy Julian E. BarnesWASHINGTON — The American military took down a Russian troll farm last Election Day in a cyberattack that continued for several days after the vote, part of what United States officials have said is a persistent campaign to block and deter interference in American democracy.The operation was intended to prevent the Internet Research Agency, based in St. Petersburg, Russia, from spreading propaganda or disinformation aimed at undermining confidence in the midterm vote or the results of the election, American officials said.The operation was aimed at taking the Internet Research Agency off line for several days, from Election Day until the results were certified by local officials.The Internet Research Agency, the best known of the Russian troll farms that create large amounts of propaganda, has been accused by the United States government of meddling in the 2016 elections. It is not part of the Russian government, but is controlled by oligarchs loyal to President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia.Intelligence agencies had assessed that the Russian troll farms that create and spread disinformation in the United States and Europe were likely to step up their disinformation activity on the day of the vote and while votes were being counted.Officials said the Election Day operations were part of a larger campaign led by United States Cyber Command and the National Security Agency to secure the midterm vote. Those operations began with a campaign of direct messages sent to Russian operatives who had created disinformation and propaganda aimed at sowing dissent and undermining confidence in American voting systems. Those direct messages were aimed at deterring the creators of propaganda.The Election Day operation, reported Tuesday by The Washington Post, was conducted under new authorities authorized by the White House. The new authorities, officials said, have sped up decision making, ensuring that bureaucratic concerns do not get in the way of taking action.Intelligence officials have said it is difficult, if not impossible, to use cyberoperations to take an adversary off line permanently. Cyberweapons typically exploit unpatched vulnerabilities in software. Given time, the target of an operation can find workarounds or fix software problems, restoring its internet connectivity or computer operations.Because of that, officials said, the operations against the Internet Research agency were designed to last only for a limited number of days.Joseph R. Holstead, the deputy director of Cyber Command public affairs, said the military did not “discuss classified cyberspace planning and operations.”“U.S. Cyber Command will continue to work as part of the whole-of-government effort to defend our elections and democratic institutions from foreign malign influence,” Mr. Holstead said.After the election, under another White House executive order, the director of national intelligence conducted an analysis of foreign interference during the midterm election.That report, which has not been made public, found that the Russians sought to interfere in the vote, not by trying to hack voting machines but by spreading disinformation. The report found that Russia used social media, fake personas and Moscow-controlled media to inflame opposite ideological sides with an aim of further polarizing the United States.On Capitol Hill, intelligence committee officials declined to discuss the Election Day cyberoperation.But after a hearing on the rise of authoritarianism in Russia, China and elsewhere, Representative Adam B. Schiff, the California Democrat who leads the House Intelligence Committee, said Russian efforts to interfere in elections were continuing.“There is a prioritized part of the Russian agenda to not just interfere in our democracy but interfere in democracies in Europe,” Mr. Schiff said. “They are pushing their authoritarian model to undermine institutions that reinforce democracy.”

Supported byTimes InsiderBy David E. SangerTimes Insider explains who we are and what we do, and delivers behind-the-scenes insights into how our journalism comes together.For the team of national security correspondents who sit along the west side of The New York Times’s Washington bureau, there is almost nothing more revealing — or, in the Trump era, more politically charged — than an annual exercise mandated by Congress called the “Worldwide Threat Assessment.” It is the one moment each year that the chiefs of America’s biggest intelligence agencies — the Central Intelligence Agency, the F.B.I. and the National Security Agency, along with lesser-known but giant agencies that defend American troops or run spy satellites — are required to explain what worries them, and to rank the threats facing the country.In a public, declassified way, they have to summarize their judgments about whether the North Koreans will ever give up their arsenal, whether the Iranians are violating a nuclear deal that the United States has already renounced, and how much progress is being made defeating terror groups like the Islamic State.That task has never been a straightforward one — especially when an intelligence finding complicates, or undermines, a president’s desired outcomes. President Barack Obama’s director of national intelligence, James R. Clapper Jr., usually opened his testimony by complaining that he had to deliver those assessments in public — naturally secretive, the intelligence leaders prefer to talk to Congress behind closed doors.But in the Trump era, the task is infinitely more complicated: The intelligence chiefs know that every word they utter will be judged in the Oval Office by whether the independent, fact-based judgments of the roughly $80 billion intelligence enterprise promote or undercut Mr. Trump’s instincts and policies.So as my colleague Julian Barnes and I prepared for this year’s testimony, I remembered the comment that the head of one of the agencies made to me during a holiday party in December. “My objective for the year,” this official said, half-jokingly, “is to stay out of the president’s Twitter feed.”No such luck. A day after the testimony at the very end of January — and only after he had read the coverage that contrasted with his own descriptions of those problems — the president erupted. “The Intelligence people seem to be extremely passive and naive when it comes to the dangers of Iran,” he tweeted, reacting to their conclusion that the mullahs in Iran are, for now, abiding by the 2015 agreement and are not producing new nuclear fuel for weapons.He did not care for the assessment that Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader Mr. Trump will meet in Vietnam this month, will not give up all of his nuclear weapons, no matter what the president wants to believe. “Perhaps Intelligence should go back to school,” Mr. Trump tweeted. Then he summoned several of the chiefs to the White House and got them to agree, at least publicly, that the problem was not their conclusions, it was us — the biased journalists covering the open, public testimony. The testimony, he wrote, was “mischaracterized by the media,” and he assured everyone “we are very much in agreement on Iran, ISIS, North Korea, etc.”They are not, obviously — just read the public document. But the moment crystallized one of the biggest challenges in covering national security issues in Washington these days: There’s what the government believes and what the president wants to believe. And when you compare the two, you are charged with taking sides, or inciting disagreements, in an effort to tear down Mr. Trump or weaken America in front of its adversaries.In the days running up to Mr. Trump’s State of the Union address, more than one member of the administration accused me, my colleagues and The Times of deliberately highlighting those differences in an effort to provoke just the kind of reaction Mr. Trump had the morning after the testimony. Why don’t you just write it straight, one asked? Just say what the intelligence chiefs said, and not try to compare it to the president’s statements?The answer is simple: We’re not stenographers. Our readers expect us to use decades of experience, as foreign correspondents around the world and as reporters who have delved into unclassified and classified data for years, to provide context into what an intelligence report on some of the most complex problems in the world really means. And we must assess the question of whether the president is integrating, ignoring or rejecting the conclusions of the intelligence community before he makes decisions.As Mr. Trump likes to point out, intelligence agencies are not infallible — see “Iraq, nuclear weapons.” But the core of our job is helping readers understand the difference between facts on the ground, the “assessments” or judgments of the intelligence community, and the policy decisions that result.So it is news when Mr. Trump decides he is going to deal with the Saudi crown prince, because the relationship with the kingdom outweighs the import of the C.I.A. conclusion, with medium-to-high certainty, that he was deeply involved in the killing of the dissident journalist Jamal Khashoggi. (Mr. Trump called the C.I.A.’s view “feelings” rather than an assessment.) And hiding behind the fact that the C.I.A. conclusion is classified, as Secretary of State Mike Pompeo did when asked about it the other day, does not silence the debate over how the United States should deal with a national leader suspected of being part of a murder conspiracy.There was another reason to point out the differences: to prepare the country for the stark difference between the picture of the world the intelligence chiefs painted and the one Mr. Trump described last Tuesday night in his State of the Union address.In Mr. Trump’s telling, the flood of illegal immigrants from unguarded stretches of the southwestern border is the No. 1 threat the United States must address. But drug trafficking, cartels and the issues of the Mexican border do not appear in the report until Page 18, and then comparatively fleetingly.In the intelligence community’s judgment, it is cyber threats — to our electric grid, our privacy and our election system — that ranked No. 1, and occupied pages upon pages of the report. The intelligence chiefs, it turned out, are consumed by the long-term issues of the race with China over artificial intelligence and quantum computing, and whether we have enough programming and scientific talent in the pipeline to keep up, much less keep ahead. The issue never came up in the State of the Union address. Nor did the central conclusion of Mr. Trump’s own national security strategy: that the chief concern today has to be the renewal of great-power competition between the United States, Russia and China.Sometimes the news is in the reports, the testimony, the leaked documents. Sometimes, it’s in the silences.David E. Sanger is a national security correspondent for The Times. His latest book is “The Perfect Weapon: War, Sabotage and Fear in the Cyber Age.”Follow the @ReaderCenter on Twitter for more coverage highlighting your perspectives and experiences and for insight into how we work.

Supported byBy Isabella KwaiSYDNEY, Australia — The Australian Parliament said on Friday that hackers had tried to break into its computer network, which includes lawmakers’ email archives, but that so far there were no indications that data had been stolen.“Following a security incident on the parliamentary computing network, a number of measures have been implemented to protect the network and its users,” Parliament’s presiding officers, Tony Smith and Scott Ryan, said in a joint statement. “All users have been required to change their passwords. This has occurred overnight and this morning.”“There is no evidence that any data has been accessed or taken at this time, however this will remain subject to ongoing investigation,” the statement read.Australian news outlets reported that security agencies were investigating the possibility that a foreign government was behind the attack, possibly China’s.The nature of the attack “suggests a state actor because it’s hard to make money from breaching a parliamentary system,” said Fergus Hanson, head of the International Cyber Policy Center at the Australian Strategic Policy Institute.China’s attempts to influence Australian politics have become a major issue here, and Mr. Hanson said that for Australia, “obviously China is the No. 1 threat-actor when it comes to cyberattacks.” But he added that Iranian, North Korean and Russian hackers would also be possible suspects in the latest attack.It comes as Australia is preparing for national elections that are likely to be held in May. Given that, Mr. Hanson said, the attack on a system that houses lawmakers’ official email accounts was concerning, in light of well-known recent attempts to influence elections through cyberattacks — most notoriously, the Russian interference in the American presidential election in 2016, which involved the theft of emails.“It would be the location where you’d find compromising emails or emails showing disputes, who was in agreement on certain policies and who wasn’t,” Mr. Hanson said of Parliament’s network.But in their statement, Mr. Ryan and Mr. Smith said there was “no evidence that this is an attempt to influence the outcome of parliamentary processes or to disrupt or influence electoral or political processes.”Some analysts were skeptical that China would be officially blamed for the attack, even if evidence of its involvement emerged.“There’s been a lot of political reluctance to attribute attacks to China,” said Alex Joske, a researcher at the International Cyber Policy Center. “It’s been seen by some people as not offering many benefits while drawing a lot of criticism and anger from the Chinese government.”Australia joined the United States last December in condemning a Chinese state-backed hacking group for trying to steal intellectual property. But the government has not publicly held China responsible for other cyberattacks that national security experts said seemed to bear its fingerprints.Last year, security experts said that tools commonly used by Chinese hackers had been deployed in attacks on the Defense Department and the Australian National University. In 2013, the theft of classified blueprints for the Australian Security Intelligence Organization’s new headquarters was also reported to have been linked to China.“More information will come out, but probably no official attribution,” Mr. Hanson said of the attack on Parliament’s system. “At the end of the day, that just encourages bad behavior.”Jenina Ibañez contributed reporting.Follow Isabella Kwai on Twitter: @bellakwai.Want more Australia coverage and discussion? Join us in our Facebook group, sign up for the weekly Australia Letter and start your day with the Australian Morning Briefing.

Supported byBy Marc SantoraPRAGUE — In an attempt to push back against attempts to limit its reach in Europe, the Chinese technology giant Huawei threatened legal action against the Czech Republic if its cybersecurity agency did not rescind its warning about the risk the company poses to the nation’s critical infrastructure.As nations across Europe take the first steps to reconfigure the systems that control the internet, Huawei’s threat was the latest salvo in the escalating war over who will control the hardware that will underpin the new 5G, or fifth-generation, networks.For more than a year, the United States has been engaged in a global campaign aimed at limiting the reach of Chinese telecommunication firms, contending that they pose a threat to security.While American officials have not offered specific details to support their concerns, they have pointed to China’s National Intelligence Law, passed in 2017. They say the law requires Chinese companies to support, provide assistance to and cooperate in Beijing’s national intelligence work, wherever they operate.That law was one of the factors that led the Czech cybersecurity agency, Nukib, to issue a formal warning in December about the risk posed by Huawei and another Chinese technology firm, ZTE.The warning, which carries the force of law, requires all companies in the Czech Republic that are deemed critical to the nation’s health to perform a risk analysis that takes security concerns into account.It has already led several large companies and government ministries to distance themselves from Huawei, including barring the company from bidding on new projects.On Friday, the Czech newspaper Dennik N published excerpts from a letter from Huawei to the head of the Czech cyber agency, Dusan Navratil, and Prime Minister Andrej Babis threatening legal action.“Huawei cannot represent a cybersecurity threat as stated in the warning,” the letter said. “Huawei, according to the Chinese law, does not have any obligation to install backdoor or spyware into their products, and the company would never agree to such a request.”Radoslaw Kedzia, Huawei’s chief representative in the Czech Republic, wrote that the cyber agency had failed to provide any specific evidence of wrongdoing and failed to explain its analysis of the Chinese law.“As consequence of the warning, Huawei has already suffered losses and faces many difficulties,” he wrote in the letter, dated Feb. 1. “For example, it was excluded from public procurement, even those that do not concern critical infrastructure.”“Retail activities have been harmed and the brand damaged,” according to the letter. The company called on Czech officials to rescind the warning, adding that if they did not receive a reply by Feb. 14, they would take the matter to court.Officials at the cybersecurity agency acknowledged receipt of the letter, a copy of which was obtained by The New York Times, but declined to comment.The pushback by Huawei was part of a broader campaign by the company to defend itself across the continent.Huawei sent a letter to the British Parliament this week defending its track record and claiming that any malicious activity on its part would “destroy its business.”The embattled company, which was founded by a former engineer in China’s People’s Liberation Army, claimed that the attacks against it were unfounded.“The governments in some countries have labeled Huawei as a security threat, but they have never substantiated these allegations with solid evidence,” Ryan Ding, the president of Huawei’s carrier business, wrote in the letter to the British lawmakers.The United States, Australia and New Zealand have already barred the company from participating in the building of the new 5G networks.In the coming months, countries across Europe are expected to begin to put in place infrastructure that would allow for the superfast, widely connected networks.Which companies will lead that effort remains an open question. But as Huawei’s threat of legal action demonstrates, the Chinese firm has no intention of ceding the lucrative market.Hana de Goeij contributed reporting.

Supported byBy Jamie TarabaySYDNEY, Australia — Prime Minister Scott Morrison of Australia on Monday blamed a “sophisticated state actor” for the recent hacking of Parliament’s computer network, raising the specter of foreign interference in the country’s politics weeks before a national election.The government has not identified the country behind the attack, but Mr. Morrison said that along with Parliament, the networks of the major political parties were also affected.Mr. Morrison did not detail how the country’s security agencies had detected or dealt with the malicious activity, but he insisted that “there is no evidence of any electoral interference.”Cybersecurity experts, he said, briefed the country’s electoral commissions and met with state and territory officials. “They have also worked with global antivirus companies to ensure Australia’s friends and allies have the capacity to detect this malicious activity,” he said.Alastair MacGibbon, the national cybersecurity adviser, said on Monday that the government had not learned the identity of the hacker before it acted to block the activity.That defensive action, he said, “also does other unpleasant things, like remove some of the forensic evidence we’re interested in.”A government cybersecurity expert said one difficulty in identifying the perpetrators was that the hackers used tools that had not previously been seen.The nations most likely to carry out such an attack are China and Russia, security experts said, though Iran, Israel and North Korea also have sophisticated cyberwarfare capabilities.Australia has frequently warned of Chinese interference in its politics. Last year, the government barred the Chinese technology giant Huawei from building a 5G telecommunications network. In a speech in October, the head of the Australian Signals Directorate, an intelligence agency, hinted that the decision was about maintaining the integrity of data and critical infrastructure.“If it is China, then I think it’s important for the public to know that,” said Alex Joske, a researcher at the International Cyber Policy Center in Canberra. “Discussions about Huawei and influence will be issues during the election, and letting the public know that the Chinese Communist Party was in our system is important knowledge.”Mr. Joske said Russia, which interfered in the 2016 United States presidential election, had less interest in the Australian election.After the American experience in 2016, Western democracies should be increasingly aware of the vulnerability of their institutions, said Roderick Jones, founder and president of the cybersecurity firm Rubica in San Francisco.“It is gross negligence to have any significant breach of a system at this point, given everything that’s happened around the world, to have a penetration of a parliamentary system is just negligent,” he said.The Australian hack was above all designed to damage voter confidence, Mr. Jones said.“People are suddenly questioning electronic voting, some of those processes get brought into focus and people stop having trust in them. Every Western election has had interference, every one has been damaged in some way. Russia and China are more allied than ever to destroy confidence in the system,” he said.The prime minister’s acknowledgment of the hack represented a departure from past policy, in which the government has been reluctant to single-handedly call out cyberattacks by foreign governments. Last April, Australia, the United States and Britain accused Russia of state-sponsored hacking. In December, Australia followed the United States in condemning Chinese hackers for trying to steal intellectual property.The Australian government’s conundrum now is what it will do once it has uncovered the identity of the foreign state actor, said Fergus Hanson, head of the International Cyber Policy Center.“This sets up Australia for its first attribution without a coalition, it’s never had the confidence to say that for an attack that just affected Australia,” he said. “In a couple of months’ time, they’re going to have to come out and say who was behind it and then they’ll have to react to it.”How the Australian government responds will be closely watched, not least by the other members of the Five Eyes intelligence-sharing alliance: the United States, Britain, Canada and New Zealand.“Will Australia fall out of the intelligence-sharing community if it doesn’t act, or is shown to have less than robust cybersecurity around key infrastructure?” asked Mr. Jones of Rubica. “There’s not a lot Australia can do, but that’s the point of alliances.”Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article misstated the nationality of Roderick Jones, founder and president of the cybersecurity firm Rubica. He is British, not American.Want more Australia coverage and discussion? Sign up for the weekly Australia Letter, start your day with your local Morning Briefing and join us in our Facebook group.

transcriptHosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Lynsea Garrison, Jessica Cheung and Theo Balcomb, and edited by Lisa TobinIn the race to dominate the next generation of cellular networks, both the United States and China know there’s much more at stake than ultrafast internet.Monday, February 25th, 2019michael barbaroFrom The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today: The United States believes that whoever controls 5G, the fifth generation of wireless communication, will have a global advantage for decades to come. The fear is that China is almost there. It’s Monday, February 25.archived recording[CAMERAS CLICKING] [INAUDIBLE]michael barbaroDavid, tell us about what happened in Germany earlier this month.david sangerMichael, it was a really remarkable scene at the Munich Security Conference, which is an annual meeting of the major allies.michael barbaroDavid Sanger covers national security for The Times.david sangerBasically, the entire national security establishments of the Western allies, the United States, NATO — they’re all in the room.michael barbaroMm-hmm.archived recording (mike pence)It is my honor to join you for the 55th Annual Munich Security Conference.david sangerAnd they were sent Mike Pence.archived recording (mike pence)Under President Donald Trump, the United States will seize every opportunity to achieve peace. But we will approach every challenge with our eyes wide open. We will deal with the world as it is, not as we wish it to be.david sangerThe vice president, not known for his foreign policy background, he gave this very combative speech in which he demanded that the Europeans follow the United States out of the Iran deal and so forth. And then he added one more demand, Michael.archived recording (mike pence)The United States has also been very clear with our security partners on the threat posed by Huawei and other Chinese telecom companies. America is calling on all our security partners to be vigilant and to reject any enterprise that would compromise the integrity of our communications technology or our national security systems.david sangerDo not let Chinese companies and the Chinese government into your communications systems, because you will forever poison the security of your countries and perhaps your relationship with the United States.archived recording (mike pence)We must protect our critical telecom infrastructure. We cannot ensure the defense of the West if our allies grow dependent on the East.michael barbaroSo what is the danger that the vice president thinks China is posing?david sangerMichael, the vice president was talking about the emergence of 5G or fifth-generation networks.archived recordingSelf-driving cars, smart cities, fully connected homes, robots — this is the future. And it will be powered by 5G. [MUSIC]david sangerThese are the networks that will connect the internet of things, the billions of different devices we’re now attaching to the internet to the central networks and to the cloud.archived recording5G is the next generation of wireless service. And it may be closer than many people think.david sangerIt’ll be the way that our autonomous vehicles run. It’ll be the way our machinery runs. It’ll be the way our gas pipelines, our water systems run. All of them connected into these networks. And what concerns many in America, and the vice president was just giving voice to this, is that whoever dominates these fifth-generation networks will have an economic intelligence and military edge for decades to come.archived recording (mike pence)We cannot ensure the defense of the West if our allies grow dependent on the East.david sangerBecause in future conflicts, the war starts not with nuclear weapons, not with artillery. It starts with unplugging a country — their electricity. And it starts, of course, with their communication networks.michael barbaroAnd the United States believes that China might dominate this 5G network, and they want to stop that?david sangerThat’s right. We’re at a really critical turning point. The 5G networks are getting ready to get rolled out. It’s billions and billions of dollars of investment. And the decisions on those investments will be made in the next 6 to 18 months.michael barbaroWow.david sangerAnd so the contracts that get awarded by governments, those are all going to get decided very soon. And once a country decides who is going to build their network, there’s no going back, because they’d lose way too much time. So the big decisions on who’s going to have control over these networks is right upon us.archived recordingChina is way out ahead of the rest of the world in deploying this within its own nation. And the companies that produce 5G in China are becoming the main supplier of that technology to the rest of the world. So right now —david sangerThis is the new arms race. In the old Cold War, people counted missiles.michael barbaroMm-hmm.david sangerIn the new era, you’re going to count who controls which networks.archived recordingThe thing is, Huawei is producing an incredible amount of 5G technology. It is the main supplier right now of 5G technology to a whole host of European nations. [MUSIC] Huawei was not particularly well known by customers globally. But in recent years, once the Chinese firm moved into mobile phones, it became one of the fastest growing tech companies in the world.michael barbaroSo if this is an arms race, what is China doing to win? What are they offering countries that would encourage them or compel them to allow China in to lay down this network for them, knowing the security threats that the vice president and others have outlined?david sangerWell, what they’re largely offering, Michael, is a lower price.michael barbaroHm.david sangerIt’s not unusual for Huawei officials to show up at government offices in countries around the world with an official from the local Chinese embassy or consulate, who can explain how they might qualify for low-interest or no-interest loans. They’re doing, essentially, what the United States did in the ‘50s and ‘60s, when our big industrialists, dam builders, road builders, military equipment providers would show up to allies and potential partners and say, boy, do we have a deal for you. And for many of these countries, they’re thinking, this is a way they get in good with the Chinese government, especially at a moment that a good number of them are alienated from the United States.michael barbaroWhat are some interesting examples of countries who are open to this offer from Huawei and who the U.S. thinks might be susceptible to these kinds of offers?david sangerWell, they’re in a couple of different categories, Michael. First, there are developing countries that just don’t have very much money to go build these networks. So if the Chinese come along with incredibly good terms, that’s pretty appealing, right?michael barbaroMm-hmm.david sangerBut the really interesting cases are the countries on the edges or in the middle of our alliances. So I’ve been in a couple, recently. In the Czech Republic, Huawei built a good number of the older 3G and 4G networks. In fact, if you go into the old castle in the middle of Prague where the Czech president works, the communications network is all built by Huawei.michael barbaroWow.david sangerSo Huawei’s in now saying, we want to build the 5G network right on top of what we’ve already built for you. And the Americans are stepping in and saying, not so fast. If you really want to build up an alliance with the United States, with the rest of Europe, you better think twice about letting the Chinese build the core of the networks that connect the political and military leadership to the rest of the world. Let me give you another interesting example: Poland. Poland’s a new member of NATO and a very enthusiastic one. And there were these discussions underway about whether Poland would use the Huawei networks. The Poles want to build what the Polish president calls “Fort Trump,” in other words, a permanent American base in Poland. And the U.S. has been very clear to them. They said, we haven’t made a decision on building a permanent base in Poland. But we can tell you this — there’ll be no permanent base in Poland if that base has to communicate over a Chinese network. We don’t really want all of our messages going directly to Beijing.michael barbaroDavid, are they literally going to call it “Fort Trump“?david sangerThe Polish president was in the United States a number of months ago. And he’s the one who first used the term. I think somebody told him that the president likes to have buildings named after him.michael barbaroHm.archived recordingA lot of noise in the markets right now with regard to weakness due to a major developing story in the corporate world.david sangerSo this was all happening in quiet, diplomatic conversations, until the chief financial officer of Huawei landed in Vancouver one day and gets detained at the airport.archived recording 1One of China’s biggest tech execs has been taken into police custody in Canada and could be extradited to the United States.archived recording 2Canadian authorities in Vancouver have arrested Huawei’s C.F.O. Her name is Meng Wanzhou.david sangerShe has been the public face of Huawei. But more importantly —archived recordingThe news has sent shockwaves through the business community here, because Meng is not just any old senior executive. She is the daughter of Huawei’s founder, Ren Zhengfei. So that has raised a lot of eyebrows as to exactly what it all means.david sangerShe was arrested on the basis of a complaint by the United States — not that Huawei had diverted data, not that Huawei had back doors, but that Huawei had violated the American sanctions on Iran.archived recordingIn Iran, we’ve known for some time that the U.S. Department of Justice has been looking into Huawei and its activities in relation to Iran.david sangerAnd that they had done this because Huawei had set up, basically, a shell company, denied it was connected to it, and used it to sell their equipment to the Iranian government.michael barbaroHm. David, does your reporting suggests that that is really why the U.S. asked Canada to arrest the C.F.O. of Huawei? Or was this ultimately about the larger set of fears around the 5G network?david sangerWell, I think there’s no question that it was part of a larger set of fears around Huawei, generally. But it was a really fascinating moment because the charge was an unusual one. Because while the United States has gone after companies around the world for breaking sanctions against Iran, including big financial firms like Deutsche Bank, they’ve always just fined them.michael barbaroMm-hmm.archived recordingSo the speculation here has been that this is a message from the United States, a warning shot, if you will.david sangerThey’ve never actually arrested their executives. But here, the United States was asking a Canadian court to extradite Ms. Meng to the United States so that she could stand trial.michael barbaroAnd what has China done in response to the arrest of this very high-profile figure from Huawei?david sangerIt has leaned on the Canadians. Suddenly, Canadian executives and Canadian workers who are in China have found that they, too, are under arrest. So they are taking hostages, in a way, to pressure Canada into not extraditing Ms. Meng to the United States.michael barbaroSo if the U.S. asked Canada to detain this Huawei executive, why is China punishing Canada rather than the U.S. so far? Why aren’t the U.S. and China fighting this arms race more directly?david sangerWell, it’s a great question. It’s not entirely clear. But President Trump said something quite strange at one point shortly after Meng was arrested.archived recordingHere’s what the president said in an interview late yesterday with Reuters about the Huawei C.F.O., Meng Wanzhou. He said —david sangerWell, you know, if I strike a really good trade deal with Xi Jinping, the Chinese president, maybe we’ll just release Ms. Meng.michael barbaroHm.david sangerChina and the United States are engaged in the last stages of this enormously complex set of trade talks that President Trump has escalated.archived recordingIf I think it’s good for the country — if I think it’s good for what will be, certainly, the largest trade deal ever made, which is a very important thing, what’s good for national security — I would certainly intervene if I thought it was necessary.david sangerSo suddenly, he was sort of corrupting what the Justice Department was describing as a legal process with the possibility that she was going to be a pawn in these trade talks. So there are many in the administration who were not happy to hear the president say that.archived recordingAnd you have to imagine that the Chinese side will see that as another poker chip on the bargaining table here, as they sort of hash out what kind of a deal they can come to by March 1.david sangerTheir concern is that President Trump will take the easy political out of getting an agreement from the Chinese to buy hundreds of billions of dollars in American goods and that, as the price for that, he’ll ignore these longer-term issues surrounding Huawei. Now, this hasn’t happened yet. And maybe it won’t happen. We don’t know, because it’s all in the black box of the China negotiations right now.michael barbaroRight. But I have to imagine that national security officials, if the president were to pursue this kind of deal, would tell him that what he would be giving up is far greater than what he would be getting in return.david sangerThat’s exactly right.michael barbaroWell, David, you have been covering cybersecurity for a really long time. Do you believe that the level of threat here that national security officials believe exists with Huawei is as significant as they believe it is?david sangerYou know, Michael, I believe there is a potential threat for the diversion of data, because all countries do this, and countries want to go dominate the telecommunications lanes for the same reason that, in a previous era, the British wanted to dominate sea lanes. And then we wanted to dominate sea lanes. And then we came to dominate air power. And then the competition over who would dominate space. So you have to think of the internet as just another domain in which this battle is being fought out. But it’s got the hints of a larger problem that I don’t think we’ve been debating in the course of this. Over the past few years, we’ve actually seen the internet begin to get Balkanized. It’s getting divided between East and West. We’re seeing the Chinese throw out gradually or make life hard for Google, Facebook, other American companies — recently, Microsoft — and replace those firms with their Chinese equivalents. Then we saw them begin to spread out with equipment that would not only tie together like-minded countries, but that would lend themselves to the kind of social control that the Chinese have been exercising. In Chinese networks, of course, they’re now using artificial intelligence and facial recognition to keep track of dissidents, to make sure that there are social credit scores that can get transmitted around easily to figure out who’s the most loyal citizen. So the Chinese networks may become the favorite of authoritarians around the world. And if that happens, we could end up with a sort of new Berlin Wall, but one that is built around these networks — a highly controlled part of the internet that’s run by the Chinese, and then a Western internet that’s more like what we’re all accustomed to when you type into the search engine, tell me about Tiananmen Square, you get a real Wikipedia entry that answers it — that you wouldn’t get if you typed those same questions in over a Chinese network.michael barbaroSo the fight over Huawei, you’re saying, fits into that. The U.S. is discouraging kind of our half of the world from letting Huawei in, which may further this division of these two internets, the East and the West.david sangerAbsolutely. The Chinese have been trying to do this for a long time, but we may actually be feeding that process by barring Huawei and other Chinese companies from building key parts of the Western internet. And the oddity about this is, if you’re going to have a global telecommunications network, sooner or later the United States is going to have to plug in to the Huawei-built 5G networks, as well. Now, that’s not the same as having them build the core of your own network. But it’s not as if you’re going to be able to say, we’re never going to talk to a 5G network built by the Chinese.michael barbaroI wonder, is there an argument for letting Huawei — in a controlled way — help develop networks around the world, including in the United States, so that there is a truly integrated internet? I understand the risks you’re outlining, and they seem very real. But if everybody goes off into their corner and builds their own internet, that would seem like its own giant set of national security risks.david sangerIt does seem that way to me. And I think there’s one strong argument in favor of letting Huawei compete in some of these Western countries, and maybe even compete in the United States. It’s that if they want to have their equipment and their software inside the United States, they have to show it to American authorities.michael barbaroMm-hmm.david sangerRight? They have to bring that software over, let the United States poke through it, let it examine it for back doors. And in fact, in private, you’ve heard many people in U.S. industry say to the National Security Agency, hey, the smart way to go about this is let Huawei compete. It’ll drive the price down, and you’ll see their work.michael barbaroHm.david sangerAnd the N.S.A.‘s answer, at least so far, has been, we’re sorry, the risk is just too great. [MUSIC]michael barbaroDavid, thank you very much. We appreciate this.david sangerGreat to be with you, Michael.michael barbaroIn an interview with “CBS This Morning” late last week, the founder and C.E.O. of Huawei, Ren Zhengfei, said that opposition to his company from Trump administration officials like Vice President Mike Pence had actually helped his company by raising awareness of the 5G network and of Huawei’s technology.archived recording (ren zhengfei)[SPEAKING MANDARIN]archived recording (interpreter)First of all, I would like to thank them, because they are great figures. 5G was not known by common people. But now these great figures are all talking about 5G. And we’re becoming more influential and getting more contracts.archived recordingI sense a little bit of sarcasm there.archived recording (ren zhengfei)[SPEAKING MANDARIN]archived recording (interpreter)Oh, please tell them I’m actually thanking them for promoting us.Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Via Apple Podcasts | Via RadioPublic | Via StitcherThe United States believes that whoever controls fifth-generation cellular networks, known as 5G, will have a global advantage for decades to come. The fear is that China is almost there.[For an exclusive look at how the biggest stories on “The Daily” podcast come together, subscribe to our newsletter.]On today’s episode:David E. Sanger, a national security correspondent for The New York Times and the author of “The Perfect Weapon: War, Sabotage, and Fear in the Cyber Age.”Background reading:As countries around the world begin deciding which companies will build their 5G networks, the United States has embarked on a global campaign to prevent the Chinese technology giant Huawei from taking part. At an annual conference with America’s closest European allies, Vice President Mike Pence demanded that Europe ban Chinese gear from global communications networks. The transition to 5G begins this year and could bring about revolutionary changes to the way we use the internet. Here’s what you need to know.Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Follow Michael Barbaro on Twitter: @mikiebarb. And if you’re interested in advertising with “The Daily,” write to us at thedaily-ads@nytimes.com.David E. Sanger contributed reporting.“Why Controlling 5G Could Mean Controlling the World” was produced by Lynsea Garrison, Jessica Cheung and Theo Balcomb, with help from Andy Mills and Alexandra Leigh Young, and edited by Lisa Tobin.“The Daily” is produced by Theo Balcomb, Annie Brown, Jessica Cheung, Lynsea Garrison, Michael Simon Johnson, Andy Mills, Neena Pathak, Rachel Quester, Ike Sriskandarajah, Clare Toeniskoetter, Jonathan Wolfe and Alexandra Leigh Young, and edited by Larissa Anderson, Paige Cowett and Wendy Dorr. Lisa Tobin is our executive producer. Samantha Henig is our editorial director. Brad Fisher is our technical manager. Chris Wood is our sound engineer. Our theme music is by Jim Brunberg and Ben Landsverk of Wonderly.

Supported byBy Nicole PerlrothSAN FRANCISCO — Businesses and government agencies in the United States have been targeted in aggressive attacks by Iranian and Chinese hackers who security experts believe have been energized by President Trump’s withdrawal from the Iran nuclear deal last year and his trade conflicts with China.Recent Iranian attacks on American banks, businesses and government agencies have been more extensive than previously reported. Dozens of corporations and multiple United States agencies have been hit, according to seven people briefed on the episodes who were not authorized to discuss them publicly.The attacks, attributed to Iran by analysts at the National Security Agency and the private security firm FireEye, prompted an emergency order by the Department of Homeland Security during the government shutdown last month.The Iranian attacks coincide with a renewed Chinese offensive geared toward stealing trade and military secrets from American military contractors and technology companies, according to nine intelligence officials, private security researchers and lawyers familiar with the attacks who discussed them on the condition of anonymity because of confidentiality agreements.A summary of an intelligence briefing read to The New York Times said that Boeing, General Electric Aviation and T-Mobile were among the recent targets of Chinese industrial-espionage efforts. The companies all declined to discuss the threats, and it is not clear if any of the hacks were successful.Chinese cyberespionage cooled four years ago after President Barack Obama and President Xi Jinping of China reached a landmark deal to stop hacks meant to steal trade secrets.But the 2015 agreement appears to have been unofficially canceled amid the continuing trade tension between the United States and China, the intelligence officials and private security researchers said. Chinese hacks have returned to earlier levels, although they are now stealthier and more sophisticated.“Cyber is one of the ways adversaries can attack us and retaliate in effective and nasty ways that are well below the threshold of an armed attack or laws of war,” said Joel Brenner, a former leader of United States counterintelligence under the director of national intelligence.Federal agencies and private companies are back to where they were five years ago: battling increasingly sophisticated, government-affiliated hackers from China and Iran — in addition to fighting constant efforts out of Russia — who hope to steal trade and military secrets and sow mayhem. And it appears the hackers substantially improved their skills during the lull.Russia is still considered America’s foremost hacking adversary. In addition to meddling widely and spreading disinformation during United States elections, Russian hackers are believed to have launched attacks on nuclear plants, the electrical grid and other targets.Threats from China and Iran never stopped entirely, but Iranian hackers became much less active after the nuclear deal was signed in 2015. And for about 18 months, intelligence officials concluded, Beijing backed off its 10-year online effort to steal trade secrets.But Chinese hackers have resumed carrying out commercially motivated attacks, security researchers and data-protection lawyers said. A priority for the hackers, researchers said, is supporting Beijing’s five-year economic plan, which is meant to make China a leader in artificial intelligence and other cutting-edge technologies.“Some of the recent intelligence collection has been for military purposes or preparing for some future cyber conflict, but a lot of the recent theft is driven by the demands of the five-year plan and other technology strategies,” said Adam Segal, the director of the cyberspace program at the Council on Foreign Relations. “They always intended on coming back.”Officials at the Chinese embassy in Washington did not respond to a request for comment.Mr. Segal and other Chinese security experts said attacks that once would have been conducted by hackers in China’s People’s Liberation Army are now being run by China’s Ministry of State Security.These hackers are better at covering their tracks. Rather than going at targets directly, they have used a side door of sorts by breaking into the networks of the targets’ suppliers. They have also avoided using malware commonly attributed to China, relying instead on encrypting traffic, erasing server logs and other obfuscation tactics.“The fingerprint of Chinese operations today is much different,” said Priscilla Moriuchi, who once ran the National Security Agency’s East Asia and Pacific cyber threats division. Her duties there included determining whether Beijing was abiding by the 2015 agreement’s terms. “These groups care about attribution. They don’t want to get caught.”It is difficult to quantify the number of industrial-espionage attacks, in part because they have been designed mostly to steal strategic trade secrets, not the kind of personal information about customers and employees that companies must disclose. Only Airbus has acknowledged in recent weeks that Chinese hackers had penetrated its databases.Many of the attacks by the Chinese Ministry of State Security have been against strategic targets like internet service providers with access to hundreds of thousands, if not millions, of corporate and government networks.Last week, Ms. Moriuchi, who is now a threat director at the cybersecurity firm Recorded Future, released a report on a yearlong, stealth campaign by the ministry to hack internet service providers in Western Europe and the United States and their customers.The lone hacking target to publicly confront the ministry was Visma, a Norwegian internet service provider with 850,000 customers. The goal of the attack on Visma was to gain broad access to its customers’ intellectual property, strategic plans and emails, including those of an American law firm that handles intellectual property matters for clients in the automotive, biomedical, pharmaceutical and tech sectors, according to Recorded Future.The Visma attack was harder to trace than earlier incidents, which typically started with so-called spearphishing emails meant to steal personal credentials. This assault began with stolen credentials for a third-party software service, Citrix. And instead of using malware easily traced to China, the attackers used malware available on the so-called Dark Web that could have come from anywhere. They also used the online storage service Dropbox to move stolen emails and files.Federal agencies are also trying to fend off new Iranian espionage campaigns.After  the Trump administration pulled out of the nuclear deal, Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, testified before Congress that her agency was “anticipating it’s a possibility” that Iran would resort to hacking attacks.The Iranian attacks, which hit more than a half-dozen federal agencies last month, still caught the department off guard. Security researchers said the hacks, which exploited underlying weaknesses in the internet’s backbone, were continuing and were more damaging and widespread than agency officials had acknowledged.Iranian hackers began their latest wave of attacks in Persian Gulf states last year. Since then, they have expanded to 80 targets — including internet service providers, telecommunications companies and government agencies — in 12 European countries and the United States, according to researchers at FireEye, which first reported the attacks last month.The current hacks are harder to catch than previous Iranian attacks. Instead of hitting victims directly, FireEye researchers said, Iranian hackers have been going after the internet’s core routing system, intercepting traffic between so-called domain name registrars. Once they intercepted their target’s customer web traffic, they used stolen login credentials to gain access to their victims’ emails. (Domain name registrars hold the keys to hundreds, perhaps thousands, of companies’ websites.)“They’re taking whole mailboxes of data,” said Benjamin Read, a senior manager of cyberespionage analysis at FireEye. Mr. Read said Iranian hackers had targeted police forces, intelligence agencies and foreign ministries, indicating a classic, state-backed espionage campaign rather than a criminal, profit-seeking motive.There is a long history of Iranian attacks against the United States, and episodes from five years back or longer are just now being made public.On Wednesday, the Justice Department announced an indictment against a former Air Force intelligence specialist, Monica Witt, on charges of helping Iran with an online espionage campaign. Four members of Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps were also charged with “computer intrusions and aggravated identity theft” directed at members of the United States intelligence community.Also last week, the Treasury said it was putting sanctions on two Iranian companies, New Horizon Organization and Net Peygard Samavat Company, and several people linked to them. Treasury officials said New Horizon set up annual conferences where Iran could recruit and collect intelligence from foreign attendees.Ms. Witt attended one of the conferences, the indictment says. Net Peygard used information she provided to begin a campaign in 2014 to track the online activities of United States government and military personnel, Treasury officials said.Representatives for Iran’s Mission to the United Nations did not respond to requests for comment.The recent Iranian attacks have unnerved American officials. But after issuing the emergency order about the ones last month, the Department of Homeland Security’s Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency has largely played them down.An official with the cybersecurity agency said there was a belief that no information had been stolen and that the attacks had not “materially impacted” operations. But Mr. Read of FireEye and others said there had been a noticeable escalation in Iran’s digital espionage.“If you tell the Iranians you’re going to walk out on the agreement and do everything you can to undermine their government,” said Mr. Brenner, the former counterintelligence official, “you can’t be surprised if they attack our government networks.”Follow Nicole Perlroth on Twitter: @nicoleperlrothJulian Barnes contributed reporting from Washington, and Sheera Frenkel from New York.

Supported byBy Adam SatarianoBARCELONA, Spain — The United Arab Emirates said on Tuesday that it would use equipment from the Chinese technology giant Huawei to build a new high-speed wireless network, despite pressure by the United States to steer clear of the company’s products.The announcement, made at a major European trade conference, was another setback for a campaign by officials from the United States to persuade countries to restrict the use of Huawei equipment in next-generation wireless networks, known as 5G. The Trump administration claims Huawei’s equipment creates a cybersecurity risk that China’s government can exploit for espionage or sabotage, a charge Huawei has forcefully denied.But the plan detailed by the United Arab Emirates’ state-owned telecommunications company, Etisalat, was the latest indication that American officials are having difficulty persuading other countries to go along with their push against Huawei, the world’s largest maker of telecommunications equipment.The United Arab Emirates is a reliable ally of the United States in the Middle East, and a major buyer of American military equipment.Much of the American lobbying campaign against Huawei has focused on Europe, where Huawei sells antennas, base stations and other equipment used in telecommunications networks. Last week, the British authorities signaled that they did not believe a blanket ban of Huawei was necessary to secure the country’s wireless networks. The Czech Republic, France, Germany and Poland are also considering restrictions against Huawei.The United Arab Emirates made its announcement during the annual wireless industry conference, MWC Barcelona. The event, attended by more than 100,000 people from more than 2,000 companies, has become a referendum on Huawei. The United States sent a delegation of officials from the State, Commerce and Defense Departments to meet with representatives from telecommunications companies and governments to warn against using Huawei equipment.On Tuesday, the conference played host to dueling news conferences between Huawei and the United States.In the morning, Huawei’s rotating chairman, Guo Ping, said that the allegations against the company were baseless, and that it would never allow its equipment to be used for spying.“Huawei has not and will never plant back doors,” he said. “And we will never allow anyone to do so in our equipment.”By the afternoon, American officials had called a hastily arranged news conference to reiterate their concerns. Citing a Chinese law that requires companies to work with the government on national security matters, Robert L. Strayer, ambassador for cyber and international communications, said countries should be wary working with Huawei.The confrontation followed a statement last week by Secretary of State Mike Pompeo that countries that allow Huawei in its 5G networks may be blocked from information sharing with the United States.But the threats have failed to win new restrictions against Huawei. A frustration among those who have met with American officials is the lack of evidence indicating how Huawei could present a cybersecurity risk.The United Arab Emirates said Huawei would help build 300 5G towers in the first half of this year. Financial details weren’t disclosed.On Tuesday, Mr. Guo said people were right to be asking about the security of new wireless networks, but added that the United States also deserved scrutiny for its past behavior.“It’s an important question to ask,” he said. “And if you don’t understand this question, go ask Edward Snowden.” Mr. Snowden, a former government contractor, fled the United States in 2013 after revealing a wide-ranging internet surveillance program by American spy agencies and their allies.Follow Adam Satariano on Twitter: @satariano.

Supported byBy Alexandra StevensonIt’s a scene that Maria Ressa, a co-founder of an online news start-up critical of President Rodrigo Duterte of the Philippines, has grown accustomed to.Late Wednesday afternoon, several plainclothes agents from the National Bureau of Investigations arrived in Ms. Ressa’s newsroom in Manila with a warrant for her arrest in a digital libel case involving her online news site, Rappler. An hour later, they took her and her lawyer away.Ms. Ressa’s arrest is the most dramatic sign yet of Mr. Duterte’s crackdown on the news media in the Philippines. Mr. Duterte has not tried to hide his disdain for journalists, calling reporters “sons of bitches” and “spies” and even warning that they are “not exempted from assassination.”As she left the building flanked by police officers, Ms. Ressa addressed reporters, telling them, “I will do the right thing.”“These legal acrobatics show how far the government will go to silence journalists, including the pettiness of forcing me to spend the night in jail,” she later added in an emailed statement.A judge initially denied bail to Ms. Ressa on Wednesday night, and she stayed in a conference room at the jail, editors at Rappler said. She was released after her lawyers posted bail for her on Thursday morning.Chay Hofileña, a Rappler executive, said the arrest was “about media intimidation and media harassment.”“This is proof,” she added, “because Rappler has been critical of the government, and they are very intent on silencing us.”Ms. Ressa had already been served an arrest warrant and turned herself in to the authorities in December to face tax evasion charges. This time, the arrest warrant was related to an article that Rappler published in May 2012. In both cases, Ms. Ressa has called the charges “unfounded” and part of a larger attack on news outlets in the Philippines.The arrest on Wednesday stemmed from an indictment filed by the Department of Justice against Ms. Ressa and Reynaldo Santos Jr., a former researcher and writer for Rappler. The  article that’s involved said Renato Corona, then the chief justice, had used a car that was registered to a businessman named Wilfredo Keng.The Cybercrime Prevention Act, under which Ms. Ressa was charged, was approved four months after the article’s publication and came into effect in October 2012.In a court filing last year, Ms. Ressa denied the charges and called them “baffling and unfounded,” adding that the government was applying a law retroactively.For several years, Rappler and other news outlets have closely followed a brutal antidrug war waged by Mr. Duterte that has resulted in the deaths of thousands of people. Their coverage helped draw international attention to the campaign, resulting in widespread international rebuke.Mr. Duterte has also threatened reporters from other publications and warned that he would not allow the renewal of the license for ABS-CBN, the biggest broadcast news network in the Philippines.But Ms. Ressa has been on the receiving end of an onslaught of legal attacks by the government. Her star political reporter has been stripped of her press pass, equivalent to a White House pass, and Rappler has been barred from covering presidential appearances. She faces charges related to a handful of different laws including ones governing financial securities and cybercrimes.The arrest on Wednesday provoked an outcry from journalists in the Philippines. The country’s National Union of Journalists said in a statement that the “clearly manipulated charge of cyber libel” was “a shameless act of persecution by a bully government.”“It may try its damnedest, but we know it will fail,” the statement added of the government and its actions, because “independent Filipino journalists will never allow freedom of the press to be suppressed.”Ms. Ressa created Rappler in 2012 with three high-powered journalists — Lilibeth Frondoso, Glenda Gloria and Ms. Hofileña — who cut their teeth as reporters during the “people power” revolt that brought down President Ferdinand E. Marcos in the mid-1980s. They shared a view that the internet would be a platform to level the playing field in news and give a voice to the voiceless.They have been threatened with death and arrested before. For example, Ms. Frondoso, head of multimedia at Rappler, once found herself in prison with her newborn child, and Ms. Gloria, the managing editor, once opened her door to find a black funeral wreath on her doorstep.Rappler gained traction with the rise of Mr. Duterte, a political strongman who came to power amid a wave of populism.Ms. Ressa’s arrest comes as journalists in many parts of the world are facing increasing pressure from their governments. In one glaring example, two Reuters journalists are serving a seven-year prison sentence for reporting on atrocities against the Rohingya minority in Myanmar.Follow Alexandra Stevenson on Twitter: @jotted.Jason Gutierrez contributed reporting from Manila.

Supported byBy Adam SatarianoLONDON — The Trump administration has spent a year trying to convince America’s allies in Europe that the Chinese telecommunications giant Huawei is a grave threat to their national security and should not be allowed any role in developing new wireless networks.A top British official indicated Wednesday that the aggressive campaign may not be working.The official, Ciaran Martin, who leads Britain’s National Cyber Security Center, expressed confidence at a conference in Brussels that any security risks Huawei posed could be managed.Britain, Mr. Martin noted, has successfully managed the company’s presence in the country’s telecommunications networks for more than 15 years by subjecting its products to strict security reviews at a laboratory run by government intelligence officials, and would continue to do so.“Our regime is arguably the toughest and most rigorous oversight regime in the world for Huawei,” he said. He added that the company’s equipment “is not in any sensitive networks, including those of the government.”“Its kit is part of a balanced supply chain with other suppliers,” Mr. Martin said.As Britain’s cellphone carriers begin to build 5G networks, officials are considering if, and how, Huawei fits into the effort. With a final decision expected by the end of the year, Mr. Martin’s remarks suggest the British government is unmoved by the Trump administration’s offensive against the company.Because Britain belongs to the Five Eyes intelligence-sharing alliance with the United States, whatever it decides on Huawei is likely to affect how other countries treat the company. Germany is also considering allowing Huawei in parts of its network, The Wall Street Journal reported on Tuesday.Europe has become a key battleground in the debate over Huawei. While the company has mostly been blocked in the United States, it is well established in Europe, working closely with carriers like Deutsche Telekom, Vodafone and BT Group. The region is Huawei’s second-largest market after China.If Britain does not ban Huawei, it would be a defeat for the White House. In private intelligence briefings and public speeches, American officials have warned that Huawei is beholden to the Chinese government, and that countries allowing its equipment to be installed as part of 5G networks will open themselves up to espionage.Vice President Mike Pence, in a speech last week at an international security conference in Munich, took a direct swipe at Huawei, warning America’s allies “to be vigilant and to reject any enterprise that would compromise the integrity of our communications technology or national security systems.”Administration officials have also said that decisions about where the United States puts military bases and troops could be affected by whether countries’ networks have such equipment.On Thursday, President Trump posted on Twitter that American companies needed to step up the deployment 5G technology or risk falling behind other countries.[What is 5G? Here’s what you need to know about the next-generation network.]Huawei has forcefully denied accusations that it is an instrument of the Chinese government. The company is the world’s largest maker of telecommunications equipment — selling antennas, base stations and other products used by the operators of the world’s largest wireless networks.The 5G networks are considered critical to the global economy, providing not just hyper-fast internet speeds, but also new capabilities for sensors, robots, autonomous vehicles, and other data-hungry devices and services. In Europe alone, mobile operators are expected to invest at least $340 billion to develop the networks, according to the wireless trade body GSMA.Huawei’s founder, Ren Zhengfei, whose daughter, Meng Wanzhou, also a top company executive, was arrested in December by the Canadian authorities at the request of the United States, denounced America’s campaign in an interview with BBC this week. He called the actions “politically motivated,” and vowed that there was “no way the U.S. can crush” the company.In Britain, one of Huawei’s most important markets, the government’s treatment of the company has long been debated. A report published on Wednesday by the Royal United Services Institute, a defense think tank, said that “allowing Huawei’s participation is at best naïve, at worst irresponsible.”The British strategy for dealing with Huawei has traditionally involved containment. The country operates a research lab outside London to review Huawei’s products and code, and publishes an annual review of the company’s technology. Last year, Britain criticized Huawei for engineering and supply-chain flaws.“We will monitor and report on progress, and we will not declare the problems are on the path to being solved unless and until there is clear evidence that this is the case,” Mr. Martin said in his remarks on Wednesday. “We will not compromise on the improvements we need to see from Huawei.”American officials have argued that 5G networks are much more complex than existing systems, and that the many lines of constantly updating code make the systems nearly impossible to protect entirely.Peter Chase, a senior fellow at the German Marshall Fund specializing in trans-Atlantic policy, said that a determination by British officials that Huawei could be handled as a manageable risk would undercut the argument that the company posed an existential risk.“They’ve made a pretty hardheaded evaluation that the United States was exaggerating the extent of the problem,” said Mr. Chase, a former American diplomat to London. “I don’t think they did that to please the Chinese.”In his speech in Brussels, Mr. Martin said cybersecurity risks were not confined to one company.“The supply chain, and where suppliers are from, is one issue, but it is not the only issue,” he said. Last year, he added, his organization “publicly attributed some attacks on U.K. networks, including telecoms networks, to Russia.”“As far as we know, those networks didn’t have any Russian kit in them, anywhere,” he said.The dispute over what risk the company presents has complicated Britain’s efforts to avoid becoming entangled in the trade war between the United States and China. As it prepares to exit the European Union, Britain is seeking new trade deals with both Washington and Beijing.China is a small but growing trade partner with Britain. Businesses exported a record 22.3 billion pounds, about $28.8 billion, worth of goods to China in 2017, making it Britain’s sixth-largest trading partner. The United States is the largest, accounting for £112.2 billion worth of exports in 2017, according to a report from Parliament this month.

Supported byNews AnalysisBy Katie Rogers and David E. SangerMUNICH — Vice President Mike Pence made his case for “America First” in the deeply hostile territory of an annual conference of America’s closest European allies on Saturday. He was not deterred from repeating his demands that Europe withdraw from the Iran nuclear agreement, ban Chinese gear from global communications networks and accelerate its increases in contributions to NATO.Mr. Pence received a predictably tepid response, mainly from a crowd of visiting Americans. They included a number of Republican members of Congress who came here to Munich, along with the Democratic Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi, at a fraught moment in the trans-Atlantic relationship.Hours later, Mr. Pence’s predecessor, Joseph R. Biden, received a brief standing ovation after delivering an impassioned rebuttal to the Trump administration’s treatment of allies, in what appeared to be the foreign policy plank of a campaign for president — if he decides to run.“I promise you, I promise you,’’ Mr. Biden said. “This too shall pass. We will be back. We will be back.” He never defined “we.”Taken together, the two men defined the dramatic change in American foreign policy that has left the traditional allies who gather at the Munich Security Conference in despair, and has led the Trump administration to embrace newer, far more authoritarian allies in Central Europe. Mr. Pence and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo spent the week visiting several of them, in a European tour that bore little resemblance to similar trips taken by administrations past.“The contrast is between a new foreign policy that focuses on America first and expects others to do as we say no matter what,” said Ivo Daalder, a former American ambassador to NATO and now the president of the Chicago Council on Global Affairs, “and the old foreign policy of working together in pursuit of common values.’’Mr. Pence did acknowledge significant progress in getting more NATO members to live up to their commitment to contribute 2 percent of their gross domestic product to defense by 2024. Even the current secretary general of the NATO alliance, Jens Stoltenberg of Norway, said on Saturday that “European allies are stepping up more for defense.”But Mr. Pence went further.He repeated a call that he made in Warsaw on Thursday, during an American-led conference of foreign ministers chiefly from Arab and European states, that Britain, France and Germany withdraw from the 2015 nuclear accord with Iran.It was a demand they had no intention of complying with, as Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany made clear in an impassioned defense of alliances and Europe’s approach to Iran that preceded Mr. Pence’s speech by only moments.Mr. Pence, fresh from a visit Friday to the Auschwitz concentration camp, accused Iran of seeking another Holocaust, citing speeches from Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, Iran’s supreme leader.He moved on to demands for other steps to wall off Europe from adversaries, insisting that the allies forgo any purchases of Russian arms, or the installation of advanced 5G communications networks made by Huawei, the Chinese telecommunications giant.“We cannot ensure the defense of the West,” Mr. Pence said, “if our allies grow dependent on the East.”The Munich conference has over the decades come to represent the alliance establishment; for years the American delegation was led by the late Senator John McCain of Arizona. (Mr. Pence spoke at a dinner in Mr. McCain’s memory on Friday night.)Over the years, Russia’s president, Vladimir V. Putin, has come to argue with the allies, and Mr. Pence was followed by one of the most influential officials in the Chinese foreign policy hierarchy, Yang Jiechi. He spent some of his time talking about the United Nations and climate change, perhaps betting that Mr. Pence would mention neither. (He was right.)Mr. Yang pushed back against Mr. Pence, who had left the auditorium before the Communist Party leader spoke, declaring that “China doesn’t require companies to install a backdoor or to collect intelligence.” But he never addressed the new Chinese law that would require companies like Huawei to assist Chinese intelligence agencies in any investigations.Mr. Biden seemed to side with the organizers of the conference, who opened it with the release of a report titled, “Who Will Pick Up The Pieces?” It focused on a rapidly restructuring world order, and the anxiety among America’s allies that the Trump administration’s erratic leadership is a threat to their own security.Mr. Biden picked up on that theme but also tried to stake out a tougher line on Russia than the Trump administration has. He condemned Russia’s interference in the 2016 election, a topic Mr. Pence did not address.“I’m not concerned about Russian influence in Europe alone,’’ Mr. Biden said. “I’m concerned about Russian influence in America.”He noted the Obama administration’s sanctions against Russia at the end of its term, without mentioning the widespread sense among his former administration colleagues that, in retrospect, their actions were far too little and too late.But Mr. Biden also warned against nostalgia and laid out his own challenge for NATO — that it must modernize to deal with new threats, starting with cyberattacks and information warfare. NATO is arguably a decade or more behind in the cyber arena. While it had a long-established playbook to deal with traditional armed invasions and even nuclear conflict, it only recently began discussing an offensive cyberstrategy.With steady message control, Mr. Pence used every stop on his European visit to reinforce the administration’s message that Iran needed to be confronted and Western allies needed to get in line.Leaving Auschwitz on Friday, he told reporters aboard his plane to Munich that the trip to the concentration camp had only enforced his belief that the Trump administration should stay heavily aligned with Israel and to “stand strong” against Iran.“The lesson of the 20th century is that when authoritarian leaders breathe out anti-Semitic threats of violence against the Jewish people,” Mr. Pence said, “freedom-loving people should take them seriously and be prepared to confront them.”In Munich, he turned briefly to negotiations to resolve a damaging trade war with China, saying that a true solution was contingent on a host of related issues, including the theft of intellectual property and free navigation in the South China Sea.“President Trump has great respect for President Xi, and so do I,” Mr. Pence said, but added, “Beijing knows where we stand.”One curious result of the competing messages from Mr. Pence and Mr. Biden is that Ms. Merkel, in her last years in office, has emerged again as the biggest defender of the traditional order. She received a standing ovation when she was asked by the conference’s organizers who would pick up the pieces.“Only all of us together,” Ms. Merkel replied, to a round of applause.

Supported byRussia’s leader has restored the role its intelligence agencies had in the Soviet era — keep citizens in check and destabilize foreign adversaries. By John SipherMr. Sipher, a former chief of station for the C.I.A., worked for more than 27 years in Russia and other parts of Europe and Asia. According to this year’s National Intelligence Worldwide Threat Assessment and Senate testimony by top-ranked intelligence officials, Americans can expect Vladimir Putin’s Russia to continue its efforts to aggravate social, political and racial tensions in the United States and among its allies. So, to best prepare for future Russian assaults, we should look to the past and study the mind-set of the Cold War K.G.B. — the intelligence service in which President Putin spent his formative years. The history of the brutal Soviet security services lays bare the roots of Russia’s current use of political arrests, subversion, disinformation, assassination, espionage and the weaponization of lies. None of those tactics is new to the Kremlin.In fact, those tactics made Soviet Russia the world’s first “intelligence state,” and they also distinguished it from authoritarian states run by militaries. Today’s Russia has become even more of an intelligence state after Mr. Putin’s almost 20-year tenure as its strongman. In the U.S.S.R., the party ruled. It was only after the rise in the 1980s of Yuri Andropov — Mr. Putin’s role model and mentor — that the K.G.B. became the state’s most important institution. Then, a decade after the Soviet Union fell, Mr. Putin rose to power and recruited many of his former K.G.B. colleagues to help rebuild the state. The result is a regime with the policies and philosophy of a supercharged secret police service, a regime that relies on intelligence operations to deal with foreign policy challenges and maintain control at home. Mr. Putin and his cronies had thrived in an empire where the K.G.B. was the sword and shield of the state, so they regularly return to their tried-and-true weapons when dealing with 21st-century problems. The intelligence services have even been used to covertly drug Russia’s Olympic and Paralympic athletes — the mark of an ultimate “intelligence state.” How did this start? After the Bolshevik Revolution in 1917, Vladimir Lenin established a secret police service called the Cheka to be his main weapon of repression and terror. Under Felix Dzerzhinsky, a ruthless revolutionary, the Cheka was tasked with keeping the leadership in power at all costs. It served as judge, jury and executioner for the state, using sabotage, censorship, repression and murder to keep the population in line and external enemies at bay.As Dzerzhinsky remarked, “We stand for organized terror,” and “the Cheka is obliged to defend the revolution and conquer the enemy even if its sword does by chance sometimes fall upon the heads of the innocent.”During Dzerzhinsky’s time, monarchists, socialists, White Russians and outsiders all conspired to overthrow Lenin and the Bolshevik government. The main underground resistance bringing these forces together was the Monarchist Union of Central Russia, which operated secretly throughout Europe and inside the Soviet Union. But unbeknown to those in that organization, it was a trap — a full-fledged honey pot created by the Cheka to draw in enemies of the Soviet Union so they could be identified, neutralized and killed. This fledgling secret police service hoodwinked the established intelligence services of Europe, and in so doing showed its guile, patience and cruelty. Britain’s “Ace of Spies,” Sidney Reilly, who became Ian Fleming’s model for James Bond, was just the most famous individual to be lured to the Soviet Union, interrogated and executed. Misplaced trust became a model for a century of Soviet and Russian subversive efforts, and the Cheka remained a source of pride for future Russian intelligence operatives. Indeed, Russian intelligence officers — including Mr. Putin — still celebrate Chekist Day every Dec. 20.Over the decades, the Soviet and Russian secret services developed tools and habits based on their Chekist experience that set them apart from their counterparts in the West. Rather than focusing on collecting and analyzing intelligence, they developed expertise in propaganda, agitation, subversion, repression, deception and murder.Indeed, the first senior defector from the new Bolshevik state, Boris Bajanov, fled to British India in 1928 with assassins on his tail. Bajanov, Stalin’s personal secretary, reported that the Kremlin’s primary foreign policy was to use covert means to weaken its enemies from within, so that if war came, it would be easier to win.The Cheka and its successors sowed chaos abroad with propaganda, disinformation and sabotage while managing mass arrests and gulags at home. Bajanov added that Soviet cultural and diplomatic institutions were simply cover mechanisms meant to hoodwink Western intellectuals, foment commercial and political unrest and undermine democracies from within. In other words, their purpose was to throw dust in the eyes of educated people in the West. Over the years, defector after defector came to the West with the same story.Indeed, the Kremlin deployed an army of spies and recruited informants around the world to steal secrets, spread disinformation and support terrorists and rogue regimes. The security services built their hybrid warfare on a form of deception called “reflexive control” — an effort to manage the perceptions of adversaries so they would be fooled into acting against their own interests. The method included distracting, exhausting and confusing opponents in order to ultimately control their animating narrative. “Operation Infektion” was one such worldwide disinformation effort. Its goal was to spread the story that the virus that caused AIDS was a weapon the Pentagon had designed to destroy developing countries. The Russian operation to influence the 2016 American presidential election was a more recent example. Assassination, too, is nothing new. When he arrived in the West, Bajanov explained that the Soviet leadership would send assassins to kill anyone who knew the true nature of the Kremlin’s inner workings. This practice has continued. The unsuccessful 2018 Russian attempt to murder Sergei Skripal in Britain is almost indistinguishable from the Cold War K.G.B. assassination of the Ukrainian nationalist Stepan Bandera in 1959. Assassins covertly tracked Bandera to his Munich address and used a K.G.B.-manufactured gun that sprayed poison to make Bandera’s death appear to have been a heart attack. It was only a K.G.B. assassin’s eventual defection years later that revealed the truth.As the United States seeks to engage Russia, it must realize that the Kremlin tiger will not change its stripes. Russia’s efforts to forcefully defend itself stem from a profound sense of insecurity, bred from centuries of invasions and breakdowns of the state. Few countries have suffered more. So a central element of Russia’s statecraft since the days of the czars has been deceiving and weakening its enemies from within. In that sense, Russia’s well-sharpened tools of political tradecraft are explainable and logical, even though condemnable.Western unity is our best defense. Mr. Putin seems to know he cannot compete with the West on a level playing field. He wields his Chekist fog machine to bewilder, confuse and paralyze his enemies because it is all he has. And as long as our politics are tribal, and Americans see domestic political opponents as the real enemy, the Kremlin’s efforts to leverage and exploit our weaknesses will continue.We should avoid threatening Russia’s sovereignty and instead work with our allies to defend ourselves vigorously and in unison from cyber, physical and hybrid attacks, and push back when threatened. This being the case, President Trump’s anti-European sentiments are surely his greatest gift to President Putin.John Sipher is a former chief of station for the C.I.A. and a co-founder of Spycraft Entertainment.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported byLet us help you start your day. By Penn Bullock(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning. A battalion provides a prototype for a European army, nuclear saber-rattling from Russia, and an actor accused of staging an assault on himself. Here’s the latest: On a base in Lohheide, Germany, German and Dutch soldiers serve together in a tank battalion. It’s a prototype for a European army that remains a distant vision of proponents like Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and President Emmanuel Macron of France. There are many obstacles to such an army — language barriers, for starters. Germany’s military is also badly outmoded and short of even thermal underwear, and militarization remains a touchy subject. The Dutch have joined forces with Germany because the Netherlands has no tank program. Populist forces are rising across Europe, emphasizing nationalism over supranational loyalties, even as a European army feels to some more urgent than ever, with America pressuring allies to increase military spending and the U.S. security umbrella increasingly in doubt. A possible future: Efforts like this unit, Battalion 414, are “islands” that need to proliferate and then coalesce into a continental defense structure, said Hans-Peter Bartels, Germany’s parliamentary commissioner for the armed forces.Three lawmakers abandoned Prime Minister Theresa May’s Conservative Party, condemning the government’s handling of Brexit as “disastrous,” and labeling pro-Brexit hard-liners as “a party within a party.” They joined eight rebels from the opposition Labour Party in an attempt to upend Britain’s entrenched two-party system for the first time in a generation.Brexit has become a defining issue for party loyalty. And as the Labour Party moves further to the left and the Conservatives rightward, centrists find themselves adrift.Looking ahead: The 11 newly independent lawmakers number the same as the centrist Liberal Democrats, but as yet have no policy platform, political organization or leader. And the country’s electoral system makes it exceptionally difficult for new parties to break through. Still, an expert told us that British politics might be at its most fluid since the 1920s. President Vladimir Putin used his state-of-the-nation address to make some of his most explicit threats yet to start a nuclear arms race with the U.S. after the Trump administration said this month that America was withdrawing from a landmark arms control treaty. Mr. Putin, whose popularity has fallen sharply in the past year, also promised increased social spending. He did not criticize President Trump, instead suggesting, as he has in the past, that a secretive “deep state” was hobbling the American president. Analysis: Any arms race would be costly, and the Russian leader’s aggressive tone appeared to be intended, in part, to persuade Washington not to abandon the treaty. His promises of increased social spending came without an explanation of how a troubled Russian economy would pay for it all. Other Russia news: Microsoft said that a group of hackers associated with Russian intelligence had targeted civil society groups across Europe.Britain, it seems, isn’t overly worried about using technology from the Chinese giant, despite warnings from the U.S. that Huawei is beholden to Beijing and is a proxy for espionage.The head of Britain’s National Cyber Security Center, Ciaran Martin, said at a conference in Brussels that any risks posed by using Huawei’s technology could be mitigated, citing the strict British security reviews the company has been subjected to for more than 15 years.Why it matters: By the end of the year, Britain will decide whether to use Huawei’s technology in building out its 5G network. Other European countries that are considering Huawei for their 5G networks are watching closely for clues to whether the White House’s claims have been exaggerated.The U.S. position: American officials have argued that 5G networks are much more complex than existing systems, and that the many lines of constantly updating code make the systems nearly impossible to protect entirely.The White House, while pressuring allies to block Huawei, hasn’t provided evidence to back up its accusations of espionage, and the company has consistently denied the claims.Climate change: A panel that the White House is preparing to establish, to examine whether climate change affects national security, is set to include a climate change denier who argues that carbon emissions are beneficial to humanity. UBS: French judges ordered the Swiss financial giant to pay a fine of 3.7 billion euros, about $4.2 billion, for orchestrating what prosecutors said was a long-running scheme to help French clients hide huge sums of money from the authorities. U.S. domestic terrorism: A Coast Guard lieutenant and self-described white nationalist who was arrested in Maryland last week was plotting to kill prominent journalists and Democratic politicians as well as “leftists in general,” federal prosecutors said in a court filing. He is said to have amassed a huge arms cache and studied the manifesto of Anders Behring Breivik, the far-right Norwegian who killed 77 people in 2011.Venezuela: Ahead of a Saturday deadline set by the U.S. and the Venezuelan opposition for allowing in aid shipments, the government of President Nicolás Maduro announced that it was closing its border to air and sea traffic from three Caribbean islands. About three million Venezuelans have fled their collapsing country in recent years, most of them on a 125-mile trek over a 12,000-foot mountain pass.Jussie Smollett: The actor from the hit show “Empire” reported to the Chicago police in January that he had been attacked by masked men hurling homophobic and racial slurs. On Wednesday night, he was charged with staging the assault. The Vatican: Pope Francis and other leaders of the Roman Catholic Church convene today for a conference on clerical sexual abuse. Victims’ advocates are demanding urgent and uniform church laws to impose zero tolerance, but Vatican officials say one world standard is virtually impossible. In interviews, some church leaders even played down the problem of church sexual abuse.Michael Cohen: President Trump’s personal lawyer and longtime fixer, who faces prison time, has agreed to testify in public before Congress next Wednesday, setting up a political fireworks show. Zebra science: Researchers dressed horses in patterned “coats” — and now think they understand why zebra stripes protect against flies.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Feed the family in record time with creamy pasta, bacon and peas.Drowning in plastic? Here are nine steps to help cut your use of single-use plastics.If you have a chronic illness, researching it can help you take some control of situation, and allow your friends and relatives to get a better understanding of what you’re going through.In fortune, children, friends, or wife,Owe all their zest to thee.Those grateful lines are from an ode to Sake (or Sheikh) Dean Mahomed, a Bengali who introduced the concept of shampooing to Britain.Mahomed, who died on or around this day in 1851, had many talents. In 1794, he became the first Indian to publish a book in English. In 1810, he opened the first Indian restaurant in England, the Hindoostane Coffee House in London.But it was his next project that put him on the map. In 1814, he opened a Brighton bathhouse offering luxurious steam baths that ended with a signature head massage, known in India as “champi,” or “shampoo.”He claimed that the popular massage cured an assortment of ailments, including asthma and paralysis, in a book titled, aptly, “Shampooing: Or, Benefits Resulting From the Use of Indian Medicated Vapor Bath.”He was eventually given a royal warrant as the “Shampooing Surgeon” to the king.Alisha Haridasani Gupta wrote today’s Back Story.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.

Supported bypuzzle makingThis month’s spotlight shines on Tracy Bennett.By Deb AmlenAnn Arbor, Mich.A knitting cyber-friend hooked me up with Knitty magazine, whose editors were looking for someone to make a puzzle for their 10th anniversary issue. I was still green, full of ideas but short on expertise. My mentor, Victor Fleming, helped me create a 17x17 puzzle titled “Hidden Patterns,” with 12 knitting pattern names clued in a non-knitting way. I made all the rookie errors you can make, including building an entire grid around a misspelled theme entry and having to start over. My first two puzzle acceptances “on spec” came from Patrick Berry at the Chronicle of Higher Education. [The current C.H.E. editor is Brad Wilber. — D.A.] The first, “Colonial Facades,” featured some of Ben Franklin’s pseudonyms and was co-authored with Victor Fleming. The second was my first published solo effort, a “Charlotte’s Web” theme titled “C-Net.” These two puzzles appeared four weeks apart in February and March of 2013.July 21, 2013, a solo Sunday. It was my 12th submission. The title is “Artful Thinking,” and it’s chock-full of groaner puns based on names of artists: “’TIS THE CEZANNE,” “WITH FLYING KAHLOS” and the like. That Sunday morning I was up North with weak Wi-Fi and it took me about 30 euphoria-tinged minutes to load the crossword blogs and read the reviews and solver comments. It is still an emotional roller coaster ride for me, reading reviews, but I’m getting used to it and I learn a lot from the critiques.Reportedly, I was a jigsaw puzzle fanatic at 17 months, though I don’t remember it. In childhood, I worked all of the word and picture puzzles I could find in the local paper and would beg my teachers to “give us another spelling test!” Words were always satisfying and interesting and fun to play with.I discovered the New York Times Sunday puzzle when I was 16. I was visiting a friend who was petsitting for a family in the mountains of Vermont. I wasn’t supposed to stay over, but the roads weren’t navigable after an ice storm, so I slept on the couch for two nights. The absent homeowners had left a stack of New York Times Sunday magazines on the coffee table, so I rifled through the topmost issue for something to occupy my ICED IN mind, and landed on the crossword puzzle. I could tell that the long answers were connected, and I wanted to work that out. It was vexing to repeatedly slide over the surface of this puzzle and get no traction, no foothold, no way in. Words were my thing! Puzzles were my thing. I would put it aside, then come back to it. Every time I came back some little section opened up, and this was just enough to keep me going. A dictionary became my last resort, to look up the plethora of words I didn’t know (like “plethora”). I finished the puzzle somehow that weekend, and formed a lifelong devotion. As a reward to myself for my hard work and persistence, I took the whole stack of magazines with me when I left, apparently not even considering whether the homeowners might miss them. Surely some higher power had arranged things just so, meaning for me to have them.Like so many others, I decided I wanted to try making a puzzle after seeing Merl Reagle demonstrate his process in the documentary “Wordplay.” I attended my first A.C.P.T. after seeing that documentary. Meeting the people behind the bylines made the possibility come to life. I saw that real (and really nice!) people make puzzles, and I might make puzzles. On Will Shortz’s advice I bought what I didn’t realize was possibly the last available copy of Patrick Berry’s “Crossword Constructor’s Handbook” (now available on his website for $10 as a PDF) and started with that excellent guide to fashion simple, unthemed grids by hand. Then Vic Fleming agreed to be my mentor, and I invested in software. He helped me develop a method and disciplined process for puzzle-making — theme development, grid work and clue writing — and helped me find the most useful tools and resources. But more important, with a mentor I could safely make my rookie mistakes, vent about my early frustrations and learn some valuable puzzle-making philosophy before flying solo.In dreams, I am often engaged in the sorting of small, insignificant objects. I’ll be sorting and matching and arranging things, and I don’t want to wake up until I’m done! Or I’m deciding how to pronounce a word, puzzling over word choices. My brain thrives on close structural work and the mechanics of language, the stuff of linguistics. Also, I’ve experienced a lot of synchronicity while solving or making puzzles, so I have this sense that they’re a fated part of my life.I use Crossword Compiler. I like the Pro-Grid filler add-on, so I can see ahead as I work to fill. It’s flexible, has lots of bells and whistles and is mostly intuitive.Probably an hour a week. I create the crossword puzzles for the print version of Bust magazine, so I circle phrases in each issue as I read the articles. These phrases have a unique “score” in my word lists, so I can favor them when I’m filling for a Bust puzzle. When there are rising stars, new names to be aware of, I add those. Also, when my 15-year-old says an unfamiliar thing, like “I am a meme lord!”, I pull out my note pad and write it down: MEME LORD (8). I will add it to my word list if it Googles well. And I prune the list as I work, deleting junk and offensive or technical phrases I know I don’t want to see or use.My personal prohibitions are idiosyncratic. I use novice test solvers for Bust, and when they balk, I flag that word in my brain as unacceptable. OATER, for example, was an early balk-inducer that I now avoid. This focus on the novice solver guides my choices for Crosswords With Friends puzzles too, where the editors, Amy Reynaldo and Trip Payne, are rigorous in their enforcement of impeccably clean, accessible fill. I fail the breakfast test selectively in Bust puzzles, but I don’t feel the itch to push that envelope in mainstream submissions.“Show up at Nathan’s?” This Bob Klahn clue is a perfect example of the kind of clue that will make me draw doodle hearts next to a byline (and the urge to draw doodle hearts is the main reason I solve on paper). This clue elevates a so-so entry by sublimely misdirecting the solver. It’s Saturday-difficulty gold. (The answer is OUTEAT.)The Inkubator! Laura Braunstein and I recently launched the Inkubator via a Kickstarter campaign, and we delivered the first puzzle to subscribers in January. The Inkubator has three essential missions. First, we aim to deliver professionally constructed puzzles that meet the solver’s high expectations for entertainment and fair challenge. Second, we work to help women — cis women, trans women and woman-aligned constructors — who are new to the field develop their skills. Third, we provide a venue for women to publish and get paid for high-quality puzzles, especially (but not exclusively) puzzles that may not have a chance at mainstream publications because of feminist, political or provocative content.Bust magazine is where I publish my most fun and also my strangest puzzles; it’s been my equivalent of an “indie” venue for several years now. I experiment with political, feminist, LGBTQ+, sexy and straight-up wordplay themes. The X-Games puzzle is not available electronically, but the latest Bust issues can be found at Barnes &amp; Noble, and other places where magazines are sold.Deb Amlen is the crossword columnist. She has been writing the Wordplay column since 2011 and believes that everyone can learn to solve the Times crossword. Even the Saturdays.  @NYTimesWordplay 

Supported byLet us help you start your day.By Alisha Haridasani Gupta(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning. Huawei gets a potential boost in Europe, Saudi Arabia courts Asia and scientists try to figure out why zebras have stripes. Here’s the latest: In addition to the president’s public criticism of the many investigations that have consumed his time in the White House, an examination by The Times found a sustained, behind-the-scenes effort by Mr. Trump to beat back the probes. Details: The president tried to install a perceived loyalist in charge of a federal inquiry looking into hush money payments for women who, during the presidential campaign, claimed that they had sex with Mr. Trump.How we know: Times reporters interviewed dozens of current and former government officials and others close to Mr. Trump, and reviewed confidential White House documents.Why it matters: Mr. Trump’s public and secret efforts to undermine the investigation and unleash an unprecedented attack of his own law enforcement apparatus have exposed him to accusations of obstruction of justice. Here are more takeaways from our investigation.Reaction: Mr. Trump dismissed the reporting as false and called The Times a “true enemy of the people” — invoking a term Nazi Germany and Stalin-era Soviets used to vilify opponents.Other White House news: The president is preparing to establish a panel to review scientific and defense warnings that climate change is a profound risk to national security. It is to include a physicist who has gained notoriety in the scientific community for suggesting that carbon dioxide — widely believed to be a damaging greenhouse gas — is beneficial to humanity.Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman has landed in China for meetings with President Xi Jinping and other officials — the last stop of a whirlwind tour that also included Pakistan and India.His swing through the region is aimed at deepening economic ties. More broadly, it reflects the kingdom’s efforts to diversify its alliances after relations with Western nations soured.Background: Western countries have been distancing themselves since the killing of a dissident writer, Jamal Khashoggi, in Turkey last year, which many suspect was directed by the prince. There has also been increasing scrutiny of the kingdom’s role in the war in Yemen, which the U.N. has called the world’s worst current humanitarian disaster.Why it matters: Saudi Arabia’s renewed focus on Asian countries that have prioritized economic cooperation with the kingdom over human rights concerns sends a signal to the West. “The message is that there are other options out there,” said one expert.In the U.S.: House Democrats opened an investigation this week into the Trump administration’s plans to circumvent normal policymaking process to build nuclear power plants in Saudi Arabia, which they say could spread nuclear weapons technology in the volatile Middle East. Britain, it seems, isn’t too worried about using technology from the Chinese giant, despite warnings from the U.S. that Huawei is beholden to Beijing and a proxy for espionage.The head of Britain’s National Cyber Security Center, Ciaran Martin, said at a conference in Brussels that any risks posed by using Huawei’s technology could be mitigated, citing the strict British security reviews the company has been subjected to for more than 15 years.Why it matters: By the end of the year, Britain will decide whether or not to use Huawei’s technology in building out its 5G network.Countries across Europe that are also considering Huawei for their 5G networks are watching closely, looking for clues on whether the White House’s claims have been exaggerated.The U.S. position: American officials have argued that 5G networks are much more complex than existing systems, and that the many lines of constantly updating code make the systems nearly impossible to protect entirely.The White House, while pressuring allies to block Huawei, hasn’t provided evidence to back up its accusations of espionage, and the company has always denied the claims.A prominent scholar and intellectual, Professor Anand Teltumbde, who has been a vocal critic of Prime Minister Narendra Modi was jailed and could be charged with conspiring “to overthrow the established government.”But human rights activists and academics around the world, including Noam Chomsky, view the case against him as part of the government’s effort to quash criticism ahead of crucial elections later this year.Background: In a speech in 2017, Mr. Teltumbde compared Mr. Modi to Hitler, saying his policies — which are rooted in Hindu nationalism — amounted to “fascism.” He also blamed the prime minister for religious riots in Gujarat in 2002 that killed more than 1,000 people.Reaction: Alarmed intellectuals have signed international petitions calling on the U.N. to intervene. Islamic State: Two American women who traveled to Syria to join the terrorist group and married its fighters now regret their decisions and want to come back home. Their prospects of doing so may be limited.The Forbidden City: For the first time since 1925, the historic Beijing landmark has opened its doors to the public at night for two days this week, allowing visitors to view its palaces and temples in ethereal lighting.China: Hundreds of people gathered in Beijing to mourn Li Rui, 104, a former aide to Mao Zedong who later became a vocal critic of the party. The funeral followed Communist Party protocol, which his daughter said he would have not have wanted.K-Pop: South Korea’s government, concerned about how “identical” pop stars with the same delicate features and slim figures influence the country’s youth, issued broadcast guidelines to restrict their presence on TV. The move drew widespread criticism from fans, including comparisons to censorship during the country’s military dictatorship.Cyberattacks: Microsoft said that a group of hackers with ties to the Kremlin’s intelligence apparatus targeted research groups and nongovernmental organizations across Europe ahead of European Parliament elections in May, the latest attempt to disrupt opponents of President Vladimir Putin.Brexit: Britain’s divorce from the E.U. is straining its political structures. Three lawmakers who represent the more pro-European wing of Britain’s governing Conservatives resigned from their party in protest of hard-liners’ influence on much of the E.U. withdrawal plan. Two days earlier, eight lawmakers quit the opposition Labour Party.Europe: At a time when populism threatens to undermine the cohesiveness of the bloc, Germany and the Netherlands have come together to create the world’s first binational battalion, an informal test case for a European army.The Roman Catholic Church: Pope Francis and other church leaders convene today for an unprecedented conference on clerical sexual abuse. Ahead of that gathering, our Op-Ed columnist Frank Bruni weighs in on a different problem confronting the church: its treatment of gay Catholics.“Game of Thrones”: With just under two months to go before HBO releases the eighth and final season of its biggest-ever hit, The Times is rolling out a preseason guide to rewatching the first seven seasons, with a deep dive into plot twists and themes you might have forgotten and tributes to the characters loved and lost. Sign up here to get it by email.Zebra science: Scientists dressed horses in patterned “coats” — and think they understand why zebra stripes protect against flies.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Feed the kids in record time with creamy pasta, bacon and peas.Drowning in plastic? We have nine steps to help you cut down your single-use plastic consumption.If you have a chronic illness, researching it will help you take control, and allow your friends and relatives to get a better understanding of what you’re going through.“In fortune, children, friends, or wife,Owe all their zest to thee.”Those grateful lines are from an ode to Sake (or Sheikh) Dean Mahomed, a Bengali who introduced the concept of shampooing to Britain.Mahomed — who died on or around this day in 1851 — had many talents. In 1794, he became the first Indian to publish a book in English. In 1810, he opened the first Indian restaurant in England, the Hindoostane Coffee House in London.But it was his next project that put him on the map. In 1814, he opened a Brighton bathhouse offering luxurious steam baths that ended with a signature head massage, known in India as “champi,” or “shampoo.”He claimed the popular massage cured an assortment of ailments, including asthma and paralysis, in a book titled, aptly, “Shampooing, or, Benefits Resulting From the Use of Indian Medicated Vapor Bath.”He was eventually given a royal warrant as the “Shampooing Surgeon” to the king.Your briefing writer, Alisha Haridasani Gupta, wrote today’s Back Story. Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.Alisha Haridasani Gupta writes the Morning Briefing.  @alisha__g 

Supported byFrugal TravelerEveryone knows off-season is the cheapest time to travel, but who wants lousy weather? A month-to-month guide to when and where to book to save money. By Elaine GlusacIn Las Vegas, hotel room rates seem to shift like rolling dice. Sometimes you win and get a $199 rate in March at the Bellagio resort, and sometimes —including over St. Patrick’s Day weekend (this year from March 15 to 17) — you’ll pay $429.Traffic in Las Vegas spikes over holidays like Chinese New Year, and events like the N.C.A.A. March Madness basketball tournament (March 19 to April 8). Add in 22,000 annual meetings that may draw as many as 175,000 attendees to a town with 150,000 hotel rooms, and you have a case study in travel economics: With crowds come higher prices. Conversely, fewer people often means lower prices. “If you’re flexible with your dates, you can get so much more bang for your buck,” said Yves Marceau, the vice president of product at G Adventures, a tour company where spring itineraries to Europe, for example, can save 20 percent or more over summer trips.Rather than strictly traveling in the off-season, when savings can be greatest but weather is often at its worst, the trick is to find soft periods in times of stronger demand. Cheaper travel varies widely by destination, but there are a few general guidelines to follow while planning. In addition to checking convention traffic (Las Vegas lists its meetings at vegasmeansbusiness.com), look for holidays in a foreign destination and probe airline booking calendars for soft travel days. Search engines like Kayak indicate “good days to travel,” meaning bargain days, and the airfare prediction app Hopper shows a calendar color-coded to pricing.While not comprehensive, the following month-by-month list provides information on deals in popular global destinations, and a few cautionary flags.Spring is the time to head to Europe for culture without the crowds. Airfare is about 20 percent cheaper in March, April and May, versus June, July and August, according to Hopper. Those savings in 2018 ran between $160 and $210 a ticket.Among beach destinations, try Bali the last three weeks of March after Nyepi (the Day of Silence), which takes place March 7. “Bali is one of those places that’s pretty constant temperature wise because it’s near the equator,” said Sandy Staples, the president of Artistico Travel Consultants, a Folsom, Calif.-based travel agency in the Virtuoso network. “In March, some of the hotels are 50 percent off what they are in July and August.”Spring in Alaska offers early wildlife-watching opportunities as animals emerge from hibernation and whales return. This year, two small-ship cruise lines, UnCruise and Alaskan Dream Cruises, are introducing new sailings that start as early as April and highlight the season of gushing waterfalls. UnCruise begins its itineraries on April 6 with a seven-night sailing between Juneau and Sitka starting at $2,995 a person. In July, a similar sailing starts at $4,495.Tip: In Latin America and Christian religious sites like Rome, Semana Santa, or Holy Week, can clog not just the week of Easter but the week prior, and you can expect higher prices.Orlando receives 72 million visitors throughout the year. High season coincides with school breaks, including spring break, summer vacation and the winter holidays. But the window after spring break in late April until Memorial Day, there’s a slight dip. Disney’s Animal Kingdom Lodge, for example, has rooms at 25 percent off during this period (it also has a similar sale for summer if booked by March 24). A recent search on Travelocity showed weekend rates at the Hilton Orlando at $146 in May versus $221 a month later.Tip: Japan during Golden Week, generally the first week of May (April 29 through May 6), is a vacation period that is expected to be particularly busy this year as a new emperor takes the throne.Normally pricey, Aspen, Colo., is a relative steal in early June, when the mountains are green again, and occupancy is at 57 percent. The Limelight Aspen hotel has rooms from $225, versus over $400 in summer. Visit before the annual Food &amp; Wine Classic in Aspen, which takes place in mid-June, and the Aspen Ideas Festival, June 20 to 29. In the Caribbean, the hurricane season runs June 1 to Nov. 30, with the heaviest storm activity historically taking place in September, according to the National Hurricane Center. If you can handle the heat, the calm of early summer brings both deals and good visibility for snorkeling and diving. June and November are both relatively inexpensive. A recent check at Montpelier Plantation &amp; Beach on Nevis found rooms in June at $235 versus $675 in February.In the United States, the July 4 holiday is a busy time to travel and a lousy time to look for deals. But just on the other side of it, there’s a relative lull in a few unexpected places, including Lake Tahoe, Calif. Over the July 4th week, rates at the Hard Rock Hotel &amp; Casino Lake Tahoe, according to a recent search, were running from $272, and drop $30 a night the week after.In Costa Rica, you will likely see some rain in the afternoons during the May-to-November “green season,” but the forests will be lush. Dantica Cloud Forest Lodge in San Gerardo de Dota near Los Quetzales National Park has rates in green season from $159, versus $184 in high season.September and OctoberWith family vacations, traffic peaks in Hawaii in summer. But once school is in session, traffic wanes, making early fall a cheaper time to say aloha. October is its lowest occupancy month when a hotel like the Aston Waikiki Beach Hotel in Honolulu goes for $169, versus July at $195.San Diego also empties out when school resumes, though highs remain in the low 70s. San Diego businesses sweeten the deal to attract families with a Kids Free San Diego promotion, offering free admission and deals at over 100 attractions, hotels and restaurants in October.In addition to Antoni Gaudí fans, foodies and cruise passengers, Barcelona is popular with conventions, drawing more than 200 a year. The International Congress and Convention Association, which tracks meetings, has Barcelona as its top international location. Go in November for weather in the 60s, but check the convention calendar at barcelonaconventionbureau.com. In Egypt, the tourism plunge that followed the Arab Spring is over. Statistics from the World Travel &amp; Tourism Council show 2017 arrivals in Egypt topped 2011 for the first time and tour operators report sellouts are common.“The sneaky time to go to Egypt is November 15 to December 15,” said Jim Berkeley, the founder and chief executive officer of Destinations &amp; Adventures International, which specializes in Egypt. “Americans don’t travel there much over Thanksgiving Day, the weather is perfect and it’s not as crowded as holiday seasons.”Tip: Don’t miss Cyber Monday sales. It’s one of the few times each year that the national park lodge operator Xanterra Travel Collection puts rooms on sale.Pre-Christmas is a good time to hit desert destinations in Arizona. The hotel rates in Scottsdale, for example, are a third lower than they will be in February at an average daily rate of $176 while the average high is 68 degrees, ideal for hiking and golfing.In Miami during Art Basel, the first week in December, rooms are at their most expensive. Just after, while many of the art installations are still on view, room rates plummet from an average of $463 to $227 up until Christmas.From a savings perspective, January is an ideal time to visit northern American cities. You’ll give up fair weather, but culture fans won’t notice from inside museums and theaters.According to 2018 figures from STR, Inc., a research firm that tracks hotel data, New York City was at its lowest annual occupancy rate, 75 percent, in January with an average daily rate of $185.73, versus an average rate for the year of $262.31 per night. (The figures are similar in February).From these metrics, many promotions flow, including NYC Broadway Week with two for one tickets for about three weeks in late January and early February, and Hotel Week NYC in early January when hotels like the Freehand New York offered rooms for $100, versus $260 normally.Similarly, Washington, D.C. is on sale in winter. Its average hotel rates in January, $173, are $100 less than they will be in March when school breaks drive occupancy.Tip: Book a cruise during “wave season,” January through March, when cruise lines put their itineraries on sale. CruiseCritic.com, the online cruise publication, cautions that wave season doesn’t necessarily net rock-bottom prices, but it’s a good time to get a cabin upgrade or onboard credits.After Christmas and New Year’s weeks, President’s Day week is the busiest, and costliest, on the ski slopes. But back it up to Super Bowl Sunday and you’ll save.“As airlines and hotels have shoulder periods, at ski resorts you can find good options in the high period,” said Evan Reece, the chief executive of Liftopia, which sells lift tickets for more than 250 ski resorts in North America. “A few examples are Christmas Day, New Year’s Day and Super Bowl Sunday.”Operators in Napa Valley have taken to calling the December through March period “Cabernet Season,” highlighting the cooler temperatures when richer winter foods pair best with the wine region’s signature cabernets. By February, color returns to the vineyards as wild mustard plants flourish.In this period, hotel occupancy hovers around 60 percent, versus close to 80 percent May through October, saving, on average, $100 a night, according to Visit Napa Valley.Tip: Chinese New Year, which usually falls in February, is seismic in terms of its impact on travel, within Asia and abroad. “You don’t want to be anywhere near China for two weeks on either side of Chinese New Year,” said Stan Godwyn, a California-based travel advisor at the Travel Store, who specializes in China.Follow NY Times Travel on Twitter, Instagram and Facebook. Get weekly updates from our Travel Dispatch newsletter, with tips on traveling smarter, destination coverage and photos from all over the world. 

Supported byGood Monday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)A majority of Americans are increasingly open to raising taxes on the wealthy. Lawmakers like Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and Senator Bernie Sanders have proposed revolutionary ways of reducing wealth inequality. But Andrew writes that there are other ways of bridging the gap — ways that stand a chance of becoming law.Start with the estate tax. Gary Cohn, the former White House economic adviser, once said, “Only morons pay the estate tax.” Andrew recommends starting there, writing that no fix could work without this. One solution: taxing inherited property at its current worth to capture gains in value made over decades. According to the Congressional Budget Office, closing this loophole could raise more than $650 billion over a decade.Raise capital gains rates for the wealthy. Andrew suggests introducing two new tax brackets — say, a marginal 30 percent bracket for those earning over $5 million and a 35 percent bracket for over $15 million — so the U.S. could raise money without discouraging investment.Close the carried-interest loophole. Current tax law allows executives at investment firms to have bonuses taxed as capital gains, not ordinary income. Scrapping that — an idea that President Trump has supported — has clear appeal to Americans’ basic sense of fairness.Reconsider breaks for charitable giving. At a minimum, Andrew writes, “we ought to consider whether the wealthy should be allowed to take deductions when they move money to their own foundations, or whether they should only take a deduction when the money is spent.” Support the I.R.S. “The agency is so underfunded that the chance an individual gets audited is minuscule,” Andrew writes.President Trump has delayed his own March 1 deadline to raise tariffs on Chinese goods, Ana Swanson and Alan Rappeport of the NYT report:• Mr. Trump cited “substantial progress” in trade talks between American and Chinese officials.• He said that negotiators had forged a compromise on key issues, including intellectual property and the trade of agriculture and energy products.• The president also expects to meet with President Xi Jinping of China to finalize a deal.“The extension will prevent the United States from increasing tariffs on $200 billion of Chinese exports to 25 percent from 10 percent on March 2,” Ms. Swanson and Mr. Rappeport write. “The delay, which Mr. Trump had dangled as a possibility in recent weeks, is likely to calm volatile financial markets and reassure business owners who depend on China.”But there is still uncertainty. “In a hint of how fluid the talks remain, the two sides did not sign an official agreement and the White House did not release details on any agreements,” Ms. Swanson and Mr. Rappeport write. The Chinese state news agency Xinhua says that “new uncertainties” could emerge, and analysts think trade tensions won’t go away.Tensions are reportedly high inside the White House.  Mr. Trump and his top trade negotiator, Robert Lighthizer, “have grown increasingly frustrated with each other,” Bloomberg reports, citing unidentified sources. Mr. Trump was apparently embarrassed when Mr. Lightizer corrected him in front of the Chinese delegation, while Mr. Lightizer “has been growing irritated with Mr. Trump’s interventions.”The British prime minister announced yesterday that a final vote on her Brexit deal that had been scheduled for this week will now take place by March 12 — just 17 days before Britain is scheduled to leave the E.U.She is trying to buy time, so that she can secure tweaks to the agreement that will make it palatable to British lawmakers. “We still have it within our grasp to leave the European Union with a deal on the 29th of March,” she told reporters. The Confederation of British Industry accused her of “running down the clock.”Parliament could undermine her game plan. Mrs. May is trying to keep the prospect of a no-deal Brexit on the table, hoping that will convince lawmakers to support her deal. Yet a proposal that will go to vote in Parliament this week “would force the government to hand power to Parliament if no U.K.-E.U. withdrawal deal has been approved by March 13,” the FT notes.The E.U. is reportedly considering a delay. “The European Union is considering telling Theresa May that if she can’t get her Brexit deal through Parliament and wants to delay the departure date, the country will have to stay in the bloc until 2021,” Bloomberg reports.The U.S. economy looks precarious, thanks to an enormous public debt and turbulent politics. But as Peter Goodman of the NYT points out, the dollar remains the world’s haven, at least when it comes to currencies.• “Because banks cannot risk jeopardizing their access to the plumbing of the dollar-based global financial network, they have taken pains to steer clear of nations and companies deemed pariahs in Washington.”• “In a clear indication that the American currency has been gaining power, dollar-denominated lending to borrowers outside the United States, excluding banks, soared between late 2007 and early 2018, according to the Bank for International Settlements.”• “The Chinese government’s restrictions on taking money out of the country and its alarming detentions of foreigners — often in parallel with geopolitical scrapes — have tested the appeal of holding money embossed with the image of Chairman Mao.”• “A series of crises within the 19 countries that share the euro has provoked more animosity than unity, revealing a foundational defect: The euro is a common currency lacking a common political structure that can guarantee a robust response when trouble arises.”• “‘There is no alternative to the dollar,’ said Mark Blyth, an international political economist at Brown University.”Mobile World Congress, the world’s largest mobile technology event, takes place in Barcelona this week. Here’s what will be grabbing headlines:• So much 5G. The next-generation wireless standard has been making political as well as technological headlines recently. Carriers will announce their plans, while countries continue to weigh the security implications of using Huawei hardware in their networks.• Folding phones. Samsung was first with its Galaxy Fold. Now Huawei has unveiled its own folding phone, the Mate X, and other manufacturers are expected to follow suit.• Eye-watering prices. The $1,000 iPhone X seemed expensive initially. But experimental smartphones like the Galaxy Fold and Mate X cost twice as much. (Don’t worry: Tim Culpan of Bloomberg Opinion argues that you aren’t expected to buy one just yet.)Britain’s Financial Conduct Authority says that financial services companies in the country experienced a fivefold rise in data breaches last year, the FT reports:• “Companies reported 145 breaches to the F.C.A. last year, up from 25 in 2017, with investment banks reporting the highest number of incidents at 34, up from just three the previous year.”• “Last year’s jump in reported attacks can partly be explained by the introduction of the E.U.’s General Data Protection Regulation last May, which requires businesses to identify and report cyber attacks within 72 hours or face penalties.”• “But executives at major banks and payments companies said they were now under almost constant fire from attackers. A chief information officer at one U.K. bank said: ‘We are seeing a lot more threat actors knocking at the front door.’”The big winner of last night’s Academy Awards was “Green Book,” which took the best picture trophy. Commentators regarded the decision as a deliberate snub of Netflix, which had pushed aggressively for “Roma.”.Netflix didn’t play by the rules. The company spent millions promoting “Roma,” but refused to let it run exclusively in movie theaters for an industry-standard three months. (It ran for three weeks before being streamed.) Netflix also refused to release box-office data.That annoyed Hollywood traditionalists. Several theater chains refused to show “Roma.” Steven Spielberg is among those who think Netflix films shouldn’t contend for an Oscar: “Once you commit to a television format, you’re a TV movie,” he has said. “You certainly, if it’s a good show, deserve an Emmy — but not an Oscar.”The reluctance will be tested. “That debate is only going to grow more contentious as Netflix commissions more and more films from A-list filmmakers,” Gregg Kilday of The Hollywood Reporter writes.Ev Williams, one of Twitter’s co-founders, is stepping down from its board after 12 years.AutoNation hired Carl Liebert as its new C.E.O., succeeding Mike Jackson.Tony Nicely stepped down as C.E.O. of Berkshire Hathaway’s Geico insurer last year, Warren Buffett disclosed on Saturday.Caesars Entertainment reportedly offered to let Carl Icahn help pick its next C.E.O.The White House nominated Kelly Kraft, the U.S. ambassador to Canada, as its pick for U.S. ambassador to the U.N.The British insurer Legal &amp; General named Michelle Scrimgeour as chief of its investment management unit.Deals• Barrick Gold unveiled a $17.8 billion unsolicited takeover bid for Newmont Mining. (Barrick)• Roche said it planned to buy Spark, a gene therapy company, for $4.3 billion. (Reuters)• The Chinese insurer Ping An reportedly plans to stage an I.P.O. for its cloud-computing unit at an $8 billion valuation. (Bloomberg)• KKR is reportedly considering buying Walmart’s Asda grocery unit. (Sunday Times)• The exercise equipment maker Peloton has reportedly picked Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase to lead its I.P.O. (Bloomberg)Politics and policy• Before a meeting with Kim Jong-un this week, President Trump said North Korea could enjoy fast economic growth if it gives up its nuclear weapons program. The U.S. may declare an end to the Korean War as part of the talks. (Bloomberg, NYT)• The Trump administration is denying more H-1B visa applications. (WSJ)• A sentencing memo from the special counsel’s office argued that Paul Manafort “repeatedly and brazenly” broke the law. (NYT)• Meet Karl Racine, the official quietly coordinating states’ legal challenges to Trump administration policies. (Politico)Tech• After an investigation revealed that popular apps were sharing personal user data with Facebook, many of the companies involved have curtailed that flow of information. (WSJ)• Why investors can’t ignore the tech battle between China and America. (Barron’s)• Bitcoin saved Carlos Hernández’s family. Could it save Venezuela? (NYT Op-Ed)• How one NYT writer tried to overcome his reliance on a smartphone. (NYT)• Inside the rise and fall of a multimillion-dollar Airbnb scheme. (NYT)Best of the rest• Bad news: Over three-quarters of business economists expect a U.S. recession by the end of 2021. (Bloomberg)• Good news: The Fed says that the U.S. financial system is “substantially” safer than before the 2008 financial crisis. (WSJ)• How America learned to love deficits and debt. (Upshot)• Chinese entrepreneurs are becoming increasingly wary of Beijing. (NYT)• ICYMI: Here’s what Warren Buffett said in his annual letter to Berkshire Hathaway shareholders. (DealBook)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.

Supported byGood Thursday. Want this by email? Sign up here.American and Chinese officials have reportedly begun to hash out documents that could form the basis of a trade deal, but there are growing concerns that leaders of both nations are softening on key demands. More on the progress from Bloomberg, citing an unidentified source:• Several memorandums of understanding “would cover areas including agriculture, non-tariff barriers, services, technology transfer and intellectual property, said the person.”• “The enforcement mechanism remains unclear, but would likely be a threat that tariffs would be reimposed if conditions aren’t met, the person said.”• “No breakthrough is expected during this week’s talks,” though an extension to a March 1 deadline is still a possibility.But there’s a new fear surrounding the deal. According to Lingling Wei and Bob Davis of the WSJ, there are “growing concerns on the home front” in both America and China that their leaders — and President Trump in particular — are “going to cave in to the other side”:• Some officials reportedly believe Mr. Trump is “tiring of the trade dispute and is poised to cut a deal that won’t lead to fundamental changes by China.”• “American Enterprise Institute China scholar Derek Scissors said that U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer, a China hawk, holds significant leverage over Mr. Trump to keep to a hard line — including, potentially, the threat of resigning if the deal falls short.”More trade news: Mr. Trump reportedly continues to consider E.U. car tariffs — levies that Volkswagen says could cost it billions of euros per year. And is the clothes maker American Giant, which makes all its products in the U.S., a model for Mr. Trump’s ambitions?Hedge funds and investment banks think they’ve found a big new moneymaker, according to Matt Goldstein and Jim Tankersley of the NYT: so-called opportunity funds, part of President Trump’s tax package to steer money to poor areas by offering large tax breaks.• “More than 80 of the funds have sprung up since January 2018, even though the Trump administration has not finalized regulations governing them.”• The pitch to potential investors: outsize returns while fighting poverty.• The provision that created opportunity funds “lowers capital gains taxes — potentially dramatically — for investors who finance projects in about 8,700 so-called opportunity zones spread across the 50 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico.”• The financial benefit? “An investor who keeps money in such a fund for 10 years is able to exclude 15 percent of the original capital gain from taxation. And — potentially much more lucratively — the investor would not owe taxes on any gains that accrued if the investment increased in value in that time.”• “Skeptics worry that the funds will mostly target real estate and other projects that probably would have attracted investment even without the tax break, and may not deliver the returns being dangled.”The British prime minister was in Brussels yesterday to press for changes that could save her Brexit deal. She may finally be making some headway, though she still needs to convince lawmakers of any changes to her plan.She made her case to the E.U. In discussions with the European Commission’s president, Jean-Claude Juncker, she pressed for “legally binding changes” to her existing deal that she hopes will make it palatable to British lawmakers. Britain’s attorney general, Geoffrey Cox, and Brexit secretary, Steve Barclay, are expected to propose wordings for those legal tweaks today.Some progress may have been made. “A Brexit agreement is already being hammered out in Brussels, according to Spain’s foreign minister, as the bloc seeks reassuring language that can convince British members of Parliament to back the deal,” Bloomberg explains.But the E.U. may demand that any changes are first approved in Britain. The E.U. “doesn’t want to call leaders for a summit to sign off on changes that are then rejected by the U.K. Parliament,” Bloomberg reports, adding that “once there’s an agreement, it should be tested in Parliament, and only after that will leaders be asked to sign off on it at a summit.” And it is far from clear that lawmakers would approve.More Brexit news: Nine more Conservative party lawmakers have reportedly said that they could resign from the party in the event of a no-deal Brexit. The credit agency Fitch may downgrade Britain’s double-A rating over concerns about Brexit. The White House has spent the last year trying to convince Europe that the Chinese telecommunications giant Huawei is a national security threat and shouldn’t be given any role in developing new wireless networks. So far, that plan doesn’t appear to be working.British officials don’t seem to agree with the White House. “Ciaran Martin, who leads Britain’s National Cyber Security Center, expressed confidence at a conference in Brussels that any security risks Huawei posed could be managed,” Adam Satariano of the NYT reports.Nor do those in Germany. The news follows a WSJ report yesterday that said “the German government is leaning toward letting Huawei Technologies Co. participate in building the nation’s high-speed internet infrastructure.”“If Britain does not ban Huawei, it would be a defeat for the White House,” Mr. Satariano writes. “Because Britain belongs to the Five Eyes intelligence-sharing alliance with the United States, whatever it decides on Huawei is likely to affect how other countries treat the company.”The German lender suffered one of its biggest-ever trading losses from a decade-long wager on a municipal-bond investment that spiraled out of control, the WSJ reports, citing unnamed sources.• The bank bought $7.8 billion worth of municipal bonds in 2007, later covered with insurance purchased from Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway.• The WSJ says Deutsche Bank “resisted for years reducing the value of those bonds and related derivatives on its books to a level that markets suggested they were worth,” and dismissed concerns from auditors.• “Internally, the bank acknowledged losses on the trade only incrementally. After it finally liquidated the position nine years after buying the bonds, bank executives debated whether to restate past financial results, but never did so.”• Deutsche Bank finally liquidated the position in the summer of 2016, after its C.E.O. at the time, John Cryan, demanded the trade be wound down.• “The prolonged struggle over how to handle the investment sheds light on cultural and financial challenges inside one of Europe’s biggest banks that have hampered its ability to compete with stronger U.S. rivals.”More Deutsche Bank news: Executives were reportedly so worried about the Trump Organization defaulting on $340 million in loans during the Trump presidency that they discussed extending repayment dates until 2025.The Swiss bank was hit by one of France’s biggest-ever financial penalties yesterday for helping wealthy French clients hide money from the authorities.The judgment was seven years in the making. French authorities began investigating after whistle-blowers tipped them off. According to the NYT, prosecutors said that UBS bankers in France eager for big bonuses “had alerted their counterparts in Switzerland to potential ‘big potatoes’ ” — French citizens with assets of at least €500,000, or about $560,000.Bankers used “James Bond” methods to hide their work. They “followed a UBS ‘security governance manual’ that included instructions for using encrypted computers, using business cards without the bank’s logo and switching hotels frequently,” according to the NYT.UBS will appeal. The firm said that the case was “based on the unfounded allegations of former employees,” and its C.E.O. derided the verdict as “superficial” and “astounding.”Major companies including Nestlé and Epic Games said yesterday that they had stopped buying ads on Google’s video platform. The reason, the NYT reports: Pedophiles were swarming the comment sections of children’s videos.The companies acted after a user posted a video that pointed out that innocent videos of youngsters were being overrun with suggestive comments aimed at the children.The video’s creator, Matt Watson, accused YouTube of “facilitating the sexual exploitation” of children. He added that the site’s recommendation system guided predators to other videos featuring minors.A Google spokeswoman said the company had taken action by deleting accounts and offensive comments. “Any content — including comments — that endangers minors is abhorrent and we have clear policies prohibiting this on YouTube,” she said.At this point, the blood-testing company is over. But Nick Bilton of Vanity Fair writes that in its final months, Theranos’s founder, Elizabeth Holmes, tried to abandon a high-spending lifestyle and attempted to convince employees that everything was O.K.:• “Holmes had a hard time weaning herself off certain luxuries. She still had her own personal security detail, drivers, personal assistants and a personal publicist who was on retainer for $25,000 a month.”• “By late 2017, however, Holmes had begun to slightly rein in the spending.” She agreed to give up her private-jet travel, and moved the company’s premises from Palo Alto to Newark, to premises that former employees called “crummy.”• “Yet through all of this, former employees of the company have told me, Holmes had a bizarre way of acting like nothing was wrong. Even more peculiarly, she appeared happy. ‘The company is falling apart, there are countless indictments piling up, employees are leaving in droves, and Elizabeth is just weirdly chipper,’ a former senior executive told me.”Those in the upper echelon are hoarding money and privilege to a degree not seen in decades. But that doesn’t make them happy at work, Charles Duhigg writes in the NYT:• “A surprising portion of Americans are professionally miserable right now. In the mid-1980s, roughly 61 percent of workers told pollsters they were satisfied with their jobs. Since then, that number has declined substantially, hovering around half, according to data collected by the Conference Board, a nonprofit research organization.”• “Even among professionals given to lofty self-images, like those in medicine and law, other studies have noted a rise in discontent.”• “Why? Based on my own conversations with classmates and the research I began reviewing, the answer comes down to oppressive hours, political infighting, increased competition sparked by globalization, an ‘always-on culture’ bred by the internet — but also something that’s hard for these professionals to put their finger on, an underlying sense that their work isn’t worth the grueling effort they’re putting into it.”Dane Butswinkas is stepping down as Tesla’s general counsel, only two months after joining the carmaker from the law firm Williams &amp; Connolly.Keith Rabois, the veteran investor, is leaving Khosla Ventures for Founders Fund, the venture capital firm run by his longtime friend Peter Thiel.Robin Phillips, a co-head of HSBC’s global banking division, will reportedly step down this summer.Serena Williams joined the board of Poshmark, an online retailer.Deals• Lyft plans to begin its I.P.O. roadshow on March 18, paving the way to begin trading publicly on the Nasdaq stock market by early April. (NYT)• The activist hedge fund Starboard Value nominated five directors to Bristol-Myers Squibb’s board, a potential attempt to derail the drugmaker’s acquisition of Celgene. (Bloomberg)• With Sainsbury and other major British retailers out as buyers for Walmart’s Asda unit, will a private equity firm step in? (Bloomberg)• The C.E.O. of Kraft Heinz says that food company valuations have become “more attractive” recently, suggesting he may try to strike deals. (FT)Politics and policy• The Justice Department reportedly could announce that Robert Mueller has completed his Russia investigation as soon as next week. (CNN)• Coal companies hired Bill Wehrum’s law firm to fight Obama-era environmental rules — then Mr. Wehrum joined President Trump’s Environmental Protection Agency. (Politico)• House Democrats plan to introduce a bill blocking President Trump’s emergency declaration for a border wall by tomorrow. (Politico)• A disinformation campaign aimed at Democratic presidential candidates like Senators Kamala Harris and Bernie Sanders is underway. Foreign state actors appear to be involved. (Politico)Tech• Apple is reportedly working on a way for developers to create one app that works on iPhones, iPads and Macs. (Bloomberg)• Samsung thinks it has seen the future of smartphones — and it’s a folding device that will cost almost $2,000. (NYT)• Digital ad spending in the U.S. is expected to surpass nondigital this year. (Axios)• Mark Zuckerberg says that an ad-free Facebook isn’t quite as straightforward as it sounds. (Recode)Best of the rest• Court documents revealed that the health care joint venture of Amazon, Berkshire Hathaway and JPMorgan Chase plans to redesign health insurance, among other things. (WSJ)• The Fed paused interest rate rises because “the global economic outlook became less certain and financial markets failed to appreciate the Fed’s willingness to shift if the economy weakened.” (NYT)• The Justice Department and S.E.C. are investigating Johnson &amp; Johnson over concerns about possible asbestos contamination of its popular baby powder. (NYT)• The S.E.C. is now investigating Danske Bank over its money-laundering scandal. (Bloomberg)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.

