Supported byBitsBy Nicole PerlrothEach week, technology reporters and columnists from The New York Times review the week’s news, offering analysis and maybe a joke or two about the most important developments in the tech industry. Want this newsletter in your inbox? Sign up here.Hello, dear readers! I’m Nicole Perlroth, cybersecurity reporter here at The Times. I’m afraid the week’s news isn’t all unicorns and rainbows.This should come as a shock to no one, but President Trump’s confrontational diplomacy has energized state hackers in Iran and China. They are targeting companies and government agencies in the United States with renewed gusto, after a multiyear lull. The rebound in activity comes on top of the continuing threat from Russians, who have already started hacking European civil society groups before elections there in May.Consider this a preview of 2020.With the United States pulling out of the nuclear deal with Iran, Iranian hackers are hitting American banks, businesses and federal agencies with cyberattacks. They’ve significantly stepped up their game: harder to track down and more effective.We’re no longer talking so-called denial-of-service attacks that make websites hiccup. They’re exploiting weaknesses in the internet’s backbone to steal web traffic as it passes between government agencies, banks and businesses that manage their back-end infrastructure.The attacks rattled Homeland Security officials, who triggered an emergency alert during the government shutdown last month. Security researchers say that the attacks have not relented and that they’re hitting American targets with an unnerving success rate.The news out of China is even more troubling. Mr. Trump’s trade confrontations with Beijing have energized state hackers in Beijing, who have renewed attacks on American businesses, especially in high-tech and defense companies.Chinese industrial espionage notably dropped after President Barack Obama and President Xi Jinping of China reached a 2015 deal to cease cybertheft of trade secrets. Now, the gloves are off.Miriam Wugmeister, a cybersecurity specialist at the law firm Morrison Foerster, told me that Fortune 500 companies were being hit at “shockingly high” rates.It’s rare that victims step forward — state laws require companies to disclose breaches only if personal data is compromised — but T-Mobile, Boeing and General Electric Aviation are among the companies in the crossfire.If that’s not worrying you, consider my colleague Sui-Lee Wee’s blockbuster report Thursday on China’s campaign to build a DNA database, in part to track and suppress China’s minority Uighur population. Beijing could not have pulled this off without a big helping hand from Thermo Fisher, a Massachusetts equipment maker, and genetic material provided by a prominent Yale University researcher who says he was unaware the material was used as a surveillance tool.In other news:■ Lyft is racing to beat Uber to an initial public offering, my colleagues Mike Isaac and Kate Conger reported. Lyft is hoping to debut on the Nasdaq at a $20 billion to $25 billion valuation before it’s overshadowed by its bigger ride-hailing competitor, Uber, which bankers initially pegged at a $120 billion valuation.■ Google is losing advertisers after a YouTuber posted video showing the prevalence of pedophiles who comment on videos of children doing regular activities like gymnastics or stretching. My colleagues Dai Wakabayashi and Sapna Maheshwari reported that major brands like Nestlé and Epic Games have pulled advertising after users flagged their ads on children’s videos targeted by pedophiles.YouTube and other big tech companies are already under fire for failing to aggressively police their platforms. Last month, YouTube said it had tweaked its algorithm to stop recommending conspiracy theories to users. This past week, my colleague Kevin Roose wrote a terrific piece outlining one of the central challenges for the company: Some of YouTube’s biggest stars (and ad magnets) push conspiracies.Google is hardly the only company struggling with misinformation. This month, The Guardian discovered that YouTube’s recommendation algorithms and Facebook’s search results were still steering viewers from fact-based medical information to anti-vaccine misinformation. All this as the Pacific Northwest is still reeling from an emergency measles outbreak.■ Karl Lagerfeld, the fashion icon, died in Paris on Tuesday. True to form, no obituary had an accurate read on his age, though The Times noted he was “generally thought to be 85.”A tech newsletter this depressing would not be complete without my favorite Lagerfeld quote: “Sweatpants are a sign of defeat. You lost control of your life, so you bought some sweatpants.” (Thank God Karl Lagerfeld never set foot in Silicon Valley.)Nicole Perlroth writes about cybersecurity in the Times’s San Francisco bureau. Follow her here on Twitter: @nicoleperlroth.

Supported byBy Alan Rappeport and Ana SwansonWASHINGTON — President Trump and his top economic advisers have sent a series of conflicting messages about the status of trade talks with China: A deal is either imminent, still out of reach or somewhere in between.Or, as Mr. Trump suggested on Thursday, “We are well on our way to doing something special” with China or the United States could decide to “walk from a deal.”The Trump administration this week halted plans to raise tariffs on $200 billion of Chinese imports as the two countries try to agree on terms that would end a monthslong trade war between the world’s two largest economies. The move was seen as a good-will gesture by Mr. Trump, who is eager to reach an agreement and has begun talking about a signing meeting with President Xi Jinping of China, perhaps in late March, at the president’s Florida resort.“I think we’re heading for a historic deal,” Larry Kudlow, director of the National Economic Council, said in an interview on CNBC on Thursday. “The outlook for a deal is very positive.”But other top advisers, including Mr. Trump’s chief negotiator, have played down the prospect for a deal, outlining a tough road ahead as the United States tries to secure lasting promises from the Chinese.Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, said on CNBC that the United States and China were working off a 150-page document and that he hoped enough progress could be made so that the two presidents could appear at a summit meeting.“This is a very, very detailed agreement for some very significant commitments,” said Mr. Mnuchin, who was traveling in London. “And these are structural commitments, but we still have more work to do.”Robert Lighthizer, Mr. Trump’s top trade negotiator, was decidedly more cautious on Wednesday, saying both sides were making “real progress,” but it was still an open question as to whether an enforceable deal could be reached.“Let me be clear: Much still needs to be done both before an agreement is reached and, more important, after it is reached, if one is reached,” he told House lawmakers during a Ways and Means Committee hearing.The Trump administration has been trying to put a positive spin on the talks, in part to help mollify jittery investors who have sent financial markets tumbling in response to any signs of negative news on the trade front. Mr. Trump has publicly claimed that the tariffs have been helpful to the United States economy, but most economists say the tariffs are a drag on growth. Big multinational companies have begun attributing weaker profits to the trade dispute and the tariffs are beginning to affect consumer prices in the United States, according to data from the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco.A report released this week by the Institute for International Finance found that China’s retaliatory tariffs on American goods have more than offset Mr. Trump’s tariffs. China’s tariffs have depressed United States exports, causing America’s trade deficit with China to expand last year. The biggest beneficiaries from the trade war, according to the report, are Brazil and Russia, which have increased both exports and imports with China.Mr. Kudlow acknowledged that the talks had not been seamless, including last week, when a delegation of Chinese officials came to Washington to try to hash out details. He said that the second day of midlevel negotiations was canceled because of a lack of progress. Mr. Lighthizer, Mr. Trump’s top negotiator, “read them the riot act” to get things moving, Mr. Kudlow said.He added that progress has been made on the “structural” changes that the United States wants China to make, but he suggested it is now up to Mr. Xi to finalize the terms of an agreement.People familiar with the negotiations, who declined to be named because the talks were not public, said the Chinese had made offers to strengthen their laws around patents and copyrights, open their markets to foreign financial services firms and carmakers and bolster laws around the coerced transfer of technology.But the Chinese have not made substantive commitments to overhaul state-owned enterprises, stop cybertheft or relax their tight restrictions on the movement of data that hamstring foreign technology firms, they said.Derek Scissors, a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, said Mr. Lighthizer had clearly been working hard to improve Chinese behavior in a substantive sense. “But have we moved the bar since the beginning of the Trump administration? The answer is no,” he said.“We don’t look at all close to meaningful enforced provisions on intellectual property,” Mr. Scissors said. “We are nowhere close to a good deal.”Mr. Lighthizer defended his progress on the structural issues on Wednesday, but he cautioned that “there’s no agreement on anything until there is an agreement on everything.”Mr. Mnuchin played down any disagreements among Mr. Trump’s economic team, proclaiming that everyone had a “common vision” for an agreement.There are also looming questions about how any deal would be enforced. Mr. Lighthizer said Wednesday that the Chinese had agreed to periodic meetings at the levels of office director, vice minister and minister that would allow the United States to keep tabs on China’s behavior and air complaints from companies about unfair business practices. If China fails to keep its agreement, the United States would respond “proportionally but unilaterally.”But enforcement remains a sticky subject among China’s leaders. Details remain scarce about how such complaints would be adjudicated and whether China would agree to an arrangement that would force it to accept punishment from the United States without recourse.Trump administration officials have supported a unilateral enforcement mechanism that would make the United States the sole judge of China’s behavior. They do not appear to be considering a mechanism that would refer violations to the World Trade Organization, which Mr. Trump and Mr. Lighthizer have fiercely criticized for treating the United States unfairly.Some White House officials privately expressed frustration on Thursday following comments made by Cui Tiankai, the Chinese ambassador to the United States, to The South China Morning Post. Mr. Cui said that some of the changes that the United States was asking the Chinese to make would take five to 10 years to accomplish.The fallout from the latest round of negotiations with North Korea over its nuclear program also represents a new wild card. In the past, Mr. Trump has expressed frustration with China when problems with North Korea arose and the collapse of negotiations this week could exacerbate that.During a news conference in Vietnam on Thursday, after walking away from an agreement with North Korea, Mr. Trump said that he was also prepared to walk away from the China talks if necessary.“I mean, I am always prepared to walk. I’m never afraid to walk from a deal,” he said. “And I would do that with China, too, if it didn’t work out.”

Supported bynews analysisA terabyte of data — 100 million pages or 1,000 hours of video — can be shared on a thumb drive. But stolen secrets come with complications.By Scott ShaneMr. Shane is a national security reporter for The Times.On the very day that Roger Stone was charged with lying about a momentous set of leaks that originated with Russian hackers, a feisty band of transparency activists led by a Boston woman posted a voluminous collection of leaks from inside Russia.It was less a coincidence than a trend, a consequence of technology and a defining feature of our time. We live in an age of leaks, for better or worse.The better part is easy: We get access to information powerful people and institutions want to keep secret. The worse part is more complicated, and requires more thoughtful consideration than it gets: Leaks often violate laws against hacking or theft and invade people’s privacy, not always with any higher purpose. They can be powerful, unpredictable, unfair weapons. They can allow one country to meddle, from a safe distance, in the affairs of another.To wit: The Democratic Party emails and documents, hacked by Russian intelligence and broadcast by WikiLeaks with the veteran political trickster Mr. Stone as cheerleader, may have allowed a foreign power to help elect an American president in 2016. Yet the new, sprawling archive of Russian leaks, ranging from government ties to the Russian Orthodox Church to the Kremlin’s management of its invasion of Ukraine, showed that the Russian state is a target of leaks these days as often as it is a leaker.Mass leaks, on a scale inconceivable back in the paper-only era, have become so routine globally that only the most extraordinary get extended attention. In South Africa, a Commission of Inquiry Into State Capture is fueled by “Gupta Leaks,” leaked emails detailing corrupt ties between government officials and the Gupta family’s business empire. In Hungary, a Portuguese man was just arrested and admitted to playing a central role in “Football Leaks,” which exposed unsavory financial dealings in international soccer. In Singapore, an American and his Singaporean physician boyfriend were accused of leaking the names of more than 14,000 people with an H.I.V. diagnosis.Leaks, an ancient metaphor, are a venerable human institution. “A talebearer revealeth secrets,” says Proverbs in an early complaint, “but he that is of a faithful spirit concealeth the matter.” Thomas Paine, the revolutionary pamphleteer, has been described as the first American to be fired for leaking classified information — in 1779.But only in recent years have leaks attained industrial scale. A terabyte of data — 100 million pages or 1,000 hours of video — can now be slipped into your pocket on a thumb drive and carried off with your keys and chewing gum. If information is power, that is a lot of power in a small package. It is being wielded daily for many purposes.The same technological change has made information vulnerable to hacking, which means that insiders are no longer the only people capable of leaking it. On a regular basis, companies announce cyberthefts of customer data, causing bureaucratic hassles for millions of people. At the other end of the scale, leaks occasionally target individuals for embarrassment or extortion.But the most consequential leaks — many of them more like floods — are those that wield political power. The diplomatic cables Chelsea Manning gave to WikiLeaks in 2010 shed light on the hidden world of diplomacy. Edward Snowden’s National Security Agency documents, shared with journalists in 2013, prompted the White House, and then Congress, to set new limits on the surveillance of Americans. The Panama Papers, leaked to a German newspaper in 2015, prompted investigations of tax evasion and money laundering around the world.On balance, those gargantuan disclosures seem largely beneficial — even if not all diplomats, intelligence officers and tax lawyers would join the applause. But the big leaks of the current era are not all about war and peace, government oversight or financial equity. For journalists, the catnip appeal of scoops can overwhelm careful judgment about the value of the disclosures and problematic questions about sources.What about the Sony Pictures leaks — an act of vengeance by the North Korean leader for an insulting movie — which exposed mostly gossip, business secrets and employee Social Security numbers? What of the leaks of personal information from AshleyMadison.com, which helps facilitate extramarital affairs?What, for that matter, about the 20,000 Democratic National Committee emails and 20,000 more pages of emails to and from John Podesta, Hillary Clinton’s campaign manager, that Mr. Stone is accused of lying about? That breach, weaponized by Russia in the midst of a presidential contest, illustrates well the ambiguous nature of such intrusions.The leaks were, after all, not disinformation, even if they were obtained by criminal means. The emails were real, which was why they drew so much media attention. “Four of the Juiciest Leaked Podesta Emails,” USA Today trumpeted a month before the 2016 election. The New York Times was only a little more demure: “Highlights From the Clinton Campaign Emails.”The leaks gave Mrs. Clinton cause to regret that she had not released the speeches she had delivered to private companies, which were now made public under the worst possible circumstances. It was agony for top Democrats whose private, sometimes snarky comments were aired.For Donald Trump and his supporters, including his old friend Mr. Stone, the emails were a campaign boon, a justified public airing of hidden Clinton truths. For future political historians, they may offer a few meaningful tidbits of insight into the Clinton campaign.Yet the leaks cannot be separated from those who made them happen: A foreign intelligence service intervened with significant impact on behalf of one side in an American election. Imagine that Russian officials had ignored Mrs. Clinton and instead hacked and published documents exposing Mr. Trump’s epic tax dodges and secret payments to paramours. Even die-hard Trump partisans might recognize that the race could have come out the other way.A different thought experiment, however, may be more timely. How would the leaks of Democratic emails be viewed had the data been hacked or leaked by a disgruntled American — a false story that Russia and Trump supporters pushed in 2016 — with no taint of foreign meddling? More Americans might accept the leaks as regrettable but inevitable political roughhousing. Such a scenario may be worth pondering. American political operatives, we recently learned, have begun to imitate Russia’s 2016 operations on social media, with two experiments in the 2017 Alabama Senate election.So it is almost certainly only a matter of time before Americans try out the hack-and-leak technique as well, as any student of old-school campaign dirty tricks can tell you. Just ask Roger Stone, who wrote in his book “Stone’s Rules”: “To win you must do everything.”Scott Shane is a national security reporter in Washington. He was part of teams that won Pulitzer Prizes in 2017 for coverage of Russia's projections of power abroad and in 2018 for reporting on Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election.  @ScottShaneNYT • Facebook 

Supported byBy Jane L. LevereTravel companies were hit by one data breach after another last year — firms including Marriott, British Airways, Delta Air Lines and the travel booking site Orbitz.Marriott estimates that as a result of its breach — in which the reservation database of Starwood-branded hotels in its portfolio was hacked — 383 million guest records could have been affected and 5.25 million unencrypted passport numbers were possibly compromised. And experts expect breaches in the travel sector will continue.“Travel companies are a prime target of cyberthefts” because they have “highly sensitive, personally identifiable information,” said Eva Velasquez, chief executive of the Identity Theft Resource Center, a national nonprofit organization in San Diego that supports victims of identity theft and seeks to broaden public awareness.But travelers do have options to protect their information.Bruce McIndoe, president of WorldAware, a risk management company, recommends creating a “digital persona” when booking travel or making other online transactions. This can include setting up a new, disposable phone number using a service like Google Voice and RingCentral to screen any calls based on caller ID, and to forward these to the phone number that you want to protect.Mr. McIndoe also suggests creating what he calls a throwaway email address, to be used only when booking online, to protect your actual personal or work email from theft. You can also keep your home and work addresses private with a service like iPostal1.com, PhysicalAddress.com and PostScanMail.com, which can create a new mailing address for you. And you can rent a post office box from the United States Postal Service, though this cannot be used for many online transactions.There are many steps you can take to protect any device you bring on business trips. If you work for a large company or service provider, like a law or accounting firm, your employer may be able to provide clean devices, even some with special protections appropriate for whatever destination you visit.Before leaving on a trip, Sam Rubin, a vice president of the Crypsis Group, a cybersecurity consulting firm, advises all travelers, regardless of the size of their employer, to make sure their laptops are encrypted, via software like BitLocker for Windows laptops or Filevault, for Macs. He also suggests backing up data regularly, installing application updates and deleting unneeded and old data from devices.The Global Business Travel Association, a trade group for corporate travel managers, suggests using a privacy filter on your laptop and tablet screen when you’re traveling. To prevent theft, lock your devices when you’re not using them, through a PIN, password protection or physical locks and alarms. The group also recommends using a juice-jack protector — attached to the end of your USB cord — to protect against data skimmers when you plug the cord into a public charging station. If you bring your own charging device, you won’t need a public charger.Experts strongly recommend not connecting to unsecured public Wi-Fi systems anywhere in the world, not only at coffee shops like Starbucks but also in airports and hotels, among other places. If you must use these, Si-Yeon Kim, chief risk and compliance officer of American Express Global Business Travel, suggests minimizing the number of documents you open, and being careful of whatever information you transmit.Christel Cao-Delebarre, the global privacy officer in London for Carlson Wagonlit Travel, a travel management company, advises being “very careful about speaking with colleagues and possibly sharing confidential information in public places.” She also urges travelers not to leave confidential documents unattended either in conference or guest rooms at hotels and elsewhere.When it comes to working online, Mr. Rubin advises using two-factor authentication on all Internet-accessible accounts. He suggests locking and password-protecting your mobile phone and configuring it to automatically lock after a period of inactivity, and using secure passwords, with a different password for each device and account. Password managers like LastPass and Keeper can help you remember and manage these.As for making purchases online, consider signing up for a credit card to be used only for such transactions. You also can set up a virtual credit card for a one-time purchase whose cost you can limit. Some of these can also be used to pay for recurring charges; those amounts can also be limited. Virtual credit cards are issued by companies such as Bank of America, Citi, Capital One, American Express and Privacy.com. According to Mr. Rubin, if the virtual credit card is compromised, it should have no impact on your physical card.Another payment option, possibly more secure than credit cards, is PayPal, said Robert Austin, president of KoreLogic, a cybersecurity company.BCD Travel, another travel management company, advises against posting pictures online of your itineraries, tickets or boarding passes. It also urges travelers to never leave their boarding passes and tickets on an airplane or in a hotel room, and to shred these once you’ve used them, all steps to keep cyberthieves from obtaining your travel details. Another protective measure is to use digital boarding passes issued by the airline, and apps like BCD’s TripSource, TripLingo, Apple Wallet and Google Pay. This information will be protected by the security code on your mobile phone even if the phone is lost or stolen.John Reed Stark, former chief of the S.E.C.’s Office of Internet Enforcement and author of “The Cybersecurity Due Diligence Handbook,” advises setting up your credit card account to automatically notify you of all transactions via email or its app, which he said will make you aware of every transaction as it occurs. He also suggests setting up a separate email account for these alerts, so you can easily track them and not clog up other accounts.To further track any suspicious activity, he advises subscribing to a credit and identity monitoring company — such as Experian, TransUnion or Equifax — that can provide alerts relating to your credit rating, credit cards and banking.For additional protection, Mr. Rubin suggests the purchase of an individual cybersecurity insurance policy, offered by companies like Chubb and NAS Insurance. Although such policies have long existed for businesses, individual policies are a new development.Henry Harteveldt, president of Atmosphere Research Group, a travel research company, said his company had found that a growing number of travelers were becoming uncomfortable with sharing their personal information with travel sellers.“The lesson for travel suppliers here is that no matter how good they think their cybersecurity hardware and software practices are, they may never be good enough,” Mr. Harteveldt said. “Sadly, there will be one hacker a step ahead at some travel company.”

Supported byBy Ana SwansonWASHINGTON — President Trump has signaled that he is moving toward peace with China in a trade standoff that has rattled markets and businesses globally. But as he backs off his threat to impose higher tariffs, the president’s relationship with his own trade negotiator is now showing signs of strain.The situation has left Mr. Trump’s trade representative, Robert Lighthizer, who is both an ardent supporter of the president and a longtime China critic, in an uncomfortable bind. While broad tariffs on Chinese imports brought Beijing to the negotiating table, Mr. Trump has grown impatient with the talks, and a consensus is growing in Washington that Mr. Trump will ultimately accept a weak deal.And despite the lack of a transformative arrangement he once promised, the president has begun dangling the idea of a “signing summit” with President Xi Jinping of China at Mar-a-Lago, Mr. Trump’s Florida resort. As a result, the president is undermining Mr. Lighthizer as he tries to pressure China to make big concessions.“Trump is certainly doing his negotiating team no favors by undercutting them in public,” said Eswar Prasad, a trade expert and the former head of the China division of the International Monetary Fund. The president’s actions, he said, “weakens rather than fortifies Lighthizer’s leverage.”On Wednesday, Mr. Lighthizer will testify before House lawmakers, where he will have to credibly defend a pact that is shaping up to be less ambitious than he might have hoped.Mr. Lighthizer has publicly expressed solidarity with the president’s goals, and those who know him say he remains loyal to Mr. Trump. In private, however, he has been frustrated by the president’s superficial understanding of the trading relationship with China and his tendency to jump unpredictably into the fray, friends and contacts say.American and Chinese negotiators have wrestled over trade terms in rounds of talks over the past year, including in Washington last week. Chinese negotiators have largely repackaged old promises about opening their markets to foreign companies and offered large purchases of American products that are designed to impress a president who is focused on reducing the bilateral trade deficit.The Chinese have so far declined to make the concrete commitments to reform their economy that the administration has demanded, including ending China’s practice of subsidizing companies, engaging in cybertheft and forcing American companies to hand over intellectual property to Chinese partners in order to do business there.Mr. Trump continues to insist that any deal with China will end “unfair” trade practices, including what he has said is theft of American technology and intellectual property. And negotiators are trying to insert an enforcement mechanism into any deal that would require China to return to the bargaining table if it fails to make these structural changes, a person familiar with the talks said.But the hardened position that prompted Mr. Trump’s unprecedented imposition of sweeping tariffs on Chinese goods appears to be weakening, giving Beijing more room to maneuver and undermining Mr. Lighthizer’s goal.On Sunday, citing “substantial progress” in trade talks, Mr. Trump backed off his March 1 deadline to impose higher tariffs on $200 billion worth of Chinese goods. That date had been described by Mr. Lighthizer in December as a “hard deadline” and was viewed as critical to getting Beijing to agree to significant changes since its economy, already hurting from tariffs, would suffer more from higher levies.Last week, Mr. Trump contradicted Mr. Lighthizer by lumping the fate of Huawei, the Chinese telecom giant facing criminal charges, in with the trade talks. Mr. Lighthizer had insisted that Huawei was “entirely a criminal justice matter” and that it had “nothing to do with anything I’m working on.” But on Friday, when asked whether criminal charges against Huawei could be dropped as part of an agreement, Mr. Trump said: “We’ll be talking to the U.S. attorneys. We’ll be talking to the attorney general. We’ll be making that decision.”“His intervention has now ratcheted up the pressure on both sets of negotiators to find a path to an agreement in the coming weeks, even if the result should be a narrow and short-lived agreement,” Mr. Prasad said.The differences between the two men mounted on Friday, as they shared a remarkable exchange in front of the press and the Chinese delegation over whether to call the current trade agreement a memorandum of understanding, or M.O.U., as Mr. Lighthizer had been doing.“I don’t like M.O.U.s because they don’t mean anything,” Mr. Trump told Mr. Lighthizer. “I think you’re better off just going into a document. I was never a fan of an M.O.U.”Mr. Lighthizer interjected to explain that, in trade negotiations, an M.O.U. is a typical term for a detailed contract between two parties.“It’s just called a memorandum of understanding,” he said. “That’s a legal term.”Mr. Trump, seemingly unhappy with being contradicted, cut back in.“By the way, I disagree,” the president said. “I think that a memorandum of understanding is not a contract to the extent that we want.”“To me, the final contract is really the thing, Bob — and I think you mean that, too — is really the thing that means something,” the president added.Mr. Lighthizer quickly reversed course. “From now on, we’re not using the word memorandum of understanding anymore,” he told Mr. Trump and his Chinese counterparts. “We’ll have the same document. It’s going to be called a trade agreement. We’re never going to use M.O.U. again.”“I like that much better,” Mr. Trump said.By Sunday night, the president seemed eager to heal any rift. Speaking from a dinner at the White House, the president commended Mr. Lighthizer for working around the clock to secure a deal with China.“When I was able to be lucky enough to win the presidency, I called Bob Lighthizer, because for years people have known he’s the greatest trader that we have on this type of trade — we have many different types of trade — and I really understand now why,” the president said.With the Chinese now making only vague concessions on structural reforms, Mr. Lighthizer would prefer to stay tough and let the bite of American tariffs persuade them to make bigger promises. While he has shared with Mr. Trump the view that the Chinese are not ready to make significant concessions, the president has continued to press for a deal.Jeff Emerson, a spokesman for the United States trade representative, denied that Mr. Lighthizer had ever been frustrated with the president, saying that he and Mr. Trump were in complete agreement on the negotiating strategy with China.“President Trump has never insisted that Ambassador Lighthizer make a deal with China and has instead told Ambassador Lighthizer he is interested only in making a ‘great deal’ with China that addresses structural issues,” Mr. Emerson added. “Anyone claiming otherwise either does not know what they are talking about or is deliberately pushing falsehoods.”Mr. Lighthizer is well respected in Washington, with decades of experience in private legal practice and government, including leading trade talks with Japan in the 1980s. In trying to pin down the Chinese on making ambitious reforms to their economy, he has an unenviable task.Many business groups and China watchers credit the Trump administration with forcing China to finally come to the table and address longstanding concerns, including its treatment of American companies. And they say the administration is poised to secure greater concessions than previous administrations have.“Bob Lighthizer has made it a priority to get this China deal right,” said Myron Brilliant, an executive vice president and the head of international affairs at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. “He understands that this is the moment in time in which there’s an opportunity to make a real change in the trajectory of the U.S.-China relationship, and he’s focused on the bottom line: what he can get from the Chinese that will improve the U.S.-China economic relationship.”Mr. Lighthizer, who will testify before the House Ways and Means Committee, is expected to face tough questions from lawmakers about the state of the negotiations and whether he feels comfortable staking his legacy on the evolving China deal. While many Republicans are eager for the trade war to end, they are warning the administration not to settle for a weak deal. Democrats are already trying to outflank Mr. Trump on China and are gearing up to call any agreement that does not include structural changes a failure.Mr. Lighthizer and other members of his office have held discussions with politicians and trade advisers of both parties, urging them to maintain their public pressure to get a substantial deal.In a statement Monday, Daniel DiMicco, Mr. Trump’s trade adviser during the campaign and the chairman of trade group the Coalition for a Prosperous America, urged the president to “continue his strategy of strength and leverage in the U.S. trade and geopolitical relationship with China” and to “resist short-term pressure from Wall Street.”Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida, urged Mr. Trump not to cave, saying in a tweet, “No matter how many tons of soybeans they buy if #China gets to keep cheating &amp; stealing trade secrets it won’t be a good deal for America, our workers or our national security.”Mr. Lighthizer, a former steel industry lawyer who grew up watching factories disappear from his native Ohio, took the trade representative job in large part to shift power away from China and toward the United States. Mr. Lighthizer has long viewed China as an economic enemy that has engaged in unfair trade practices, destroying American industries in the process.The potential for Mr. Trump to reach a compromise deal with China has prompted speculation in Washington that Mr. Lighthizer, like so many other administration officials, might resign. But while Mr. Lighthizer views changing the China dynamic as critical, his confidantes say he is unlikely to leave given his unprecedented opportunity to improve America’s terms of trade with Canada, Mexico and the European Union, as well as at the World Trade Organization.Mr. Emerson said rumors of Mr. Lighthizer’s resignation were “a total falsehood."Mr. Lighthizer “believes President Trump is the greatest trade president in our history and is honored to help him,” Mr. Emerson said.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.

Supported byBy Alan RappeportWASHINGTON — President Trump’s decision to back off his threat to raise tariffs on Chinese goods carries substantial political risk as the president faces increased pressure from Republicans, Democrats and some of his own advisers to win the kind of tough concessions that Beijing has long resisted.Citing “substantial progress” in talks between the United States and China, Mr. Trump on Sunday evening halted plans to raise tariffs on $200 billion worth of Chinese goods at the end of this week. On Monday, the president predicted that President Xi Jinping of China would soon join him at Mar-a-Lago, Mr. Trump’s Florida resort, for a “signing summit.”“We’re getting very, very close,” Mr. Trump said at a gathering of governors at the White House.Mr. Trump’s optimism has cheered Wall Street and business lobbyists, who have been pushing for a quick end to the trade war. But Democrats and even some Republicans are not so sanguine.Top Democrats, in an effort to outflank Mr. Trump on China, are warning loudly that the Chinese may simply be dangling false promises in hopes of getting the president to end a trade war that is hurting American farmers and damaging the Chinese economy. Some Republicans fear that Mr. Trump may settle for a deal that simply reduces the trade deficit between the two countries and potentially offers relief to a Chinese telecommunication giant, Huawei, which is facing criminal charges in the United States.“It’s become a real concern that Democrats could use this against him in the 2020 election,” Michael Pillsbury, the director of Chinese strategy at the Hudson Institute and a White House adviser, said of the dangers of Mr. Trump cutting a modest trade deal with China.Mr. Trump has positioned his monthslong trade fight with China as necessary to win “the biggest deal” in history. China has agreed to make some changes to its trading relationship with America, including purchasing more soybeans and natural gas and preventing currency manipulation. The government has also committed to opening up financial services, insurance and car markets, changes the Chinese have previously discussed.But many of the biggest sticking points still remain, including China’s state subsidization of companies, which gives Chinese firms a competitive advantage. Beijing also still appears to be falling short of the administration’s demands to stop what it says is a pattern of cybertheft and to end a requirement that American companies hand over valuable intellectual property as a condition of doing business there, people familiar with the negotiations said.The Chinese are touting a clause in their investment law that would crack down on such transfers of technologies and offering up tougher regulations surrounding patents and copyrights, but some administration officials are skeptical that these changes will go far enough.The Chinese Embassy released a statement through China’s state news agency, Xinhua, on Monday, saying talks over the weekend were focused “on the text of an agreement” and that the two sides would continue to push toward an agreement.“The Chinese delegation said that substantial progress was made on such specific issues as technology transfer, protection of intellectual property rights, non-tariff barriers, service industry, agriculture and exchange rates,” the statement said.Top Democrats have focused on Mr. Trump’s desire to reduce the bilateral trade deficit with China and are prepared to call any agreement that is based primarily on purchases of American soybeans, liquid natural gas and other farm products a failure.“At the heart of our economic challenges with China is its shirking of market economics, so it is troubling that Donald Trump may settle for a government commitment to buy U.S. agriculture as a means to let China off the hook,” said Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon.Senior Republicans are also concerned that the president might soften on China. Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, tweeted on Monday that Mr. Trump should not “take a half deal as a good deal” and urged the president to demand structural changes that are enforceable.Democrats will have their first formal opportunity to confront the Trump administration directly on its China trade policy on Wednesday when Robert Lighthizer, the United States trade representative, testifies before the House Ways and Means Committee. Mr. Lighthizer, a longtime China hard-liner and the administration’s top negotiator, is expected to face tough questioning from Democrats seeking assurances Mr. Trump will not accept a watered-down deal and declare victory.“With so many losses, Trump needs a win and any win will suffice — even one that is just Chinese promises of future purchases without meaningful, structural reform,” said Representative Lloyd Doggett, Democrat of Texas, who sits on the Ways and Means Committee.Mr. Trump has already started to signal his political concerns publicly. During a news conference this month at the White House, the president suggested that he would invite Democratic leaders to participate in negotiations with China so that they would not be able to undercut whatever agreement he reaches.“Any deal I make with China, Schumer is going to stand up and say, ‘Oh, it should’ve been better,’” Mr. Trump said, referring to Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the minority leader. “That’s called politics.”An aide to Mr. Schumer said that no invitation has been offered.Last week, Mr. Trump even embraced Senator Bernie Sanders, independent of Vermont, on trade. The president said that Mr. Sanders, who is making his second presidential run as a Democrat, tends to agree with him on the issue and that Mr. Sanders is “tough on trade.”While Mr. Sanders has praised some of Mr. Trump’s moves on trade, he has also been critical of his negotiating approach in some cases, and has opposed the Trump administration’s steel and aluminum tariffs on Canada, Mexico and Europe.Mr. Pillsbury said that Mr. Trump’s campaign advisers have been gathering opposition research files on potential 2020 rivals and carefully taking note of what certain people, such as Senator Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio, who is considering a run, have been saying about China.Mr. Brown was one of three top Democrats — along with Mr. Schumer and Mr. Wyden — who sent a letter to Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, this month urging the administration to “stay aggressive” and ensure that China commits to verifiable, enforceable reforms. The letter was sent after reports that Mr. Mnuchin wanted to scale back Chinese tariffs in advance of a deal.“I will wait to judge the outcome of the trade talks until I know what’s been agreed to,” Mr. Brown said in a statement. “But it’s imperative that the White House secures an enforceable deal that includes long-term structural reforms to stop China’s unfair trade practices and ensures American workers can compete on a level playing field.”Officials from both countries have continued to be vague about the details of the progress, leading to speculation that China is just repackaging old promises as new concessions. China experts and business lobbyists say that the Chinese government has been carefully watching the shifting political dynamics in the United States, along with Mr. Trump’s continuing legal turmoil, as it determines how to navigate the trade war in an environment with Democrats controlling more power in Washington.In some cases, newly empowered Democrats have become an asset to the administration’s China hawks, Mr. Lighthizer and Peter Navarro, who have been pressing Mr. Trump not to cut a modest deal and roll back tariffs to please Wall Street.Mr. Schumer has long been critical of China’s trade practices that have been harmful to the rural parts of New York State and he has been a vocal critic of China’s history of currency manipulation. Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s return as the leader of the House of Representatives was also met with wariness in China. She has for years been outspoken about China’s human rights record and has met on multiple occasions with the Dalai Lama, the exiled Tibetan spiritual leader vilified by China.Because of that long history, Mr. Trump’s advisers fear that Democrats in Congress will have more credibility when criticizing Mr. Trump’s eventual China agreement even if it does not require congressional approval.“The Democrats are going to use this against him,” said Craig Allen, the president of the U.S.-China Business Council. “As we go into the election cycle, it is natural and part of our national tradition that one side criticizes the other for China.”Mr. Allen noted that political protest in the United States over China goes back to the country’s inception, with the Boston Tea Party triggered by anger over imports of Chinese tea and that the anti-China sentiment tends to bubble up every four years. In 2012, Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, then the Democratic majority leader, called for United States Olympic uniforms to be burned when it emerged that they were made in China.There are also signs that Mr. Trump could face backlash from his own party if he is too conciliatory. During his meeting on Friday with a Chinese delegation in the Oval Office, Mr. Trump raised eyebrows among Republicans when he suggested that relief for Huawei, which has been charged with stealing intellectual property and impeding an investigation into the telecom company’s attempt to evade economic sanctions on Iran, could be part of the trade deal.After Mr. Trump’s comment, Senator Tom Cotton, Republican of Arkansas, tweeted that Huawei is a “serious national security threat” and a “Trojan Horse” for the Chinese Communist Party. And Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida, dismissed a tweet by Sonny Perdue, the agriculture secretary, for touting China’s commitment to buy an extra 10 million metric tons of soybeans and said that any deal that allows China to keep “stealing trade secrets” will not be a success.The blowback from both directions may leave Mr. Trump little choice but to keep the threat of tariffs alive so that he can continue to claim he’s being tough on China, analysts said. In a January interview with The New York Times, Mr. Trump acknowledged that some of the $250 billion worth of tariffs could be made permanent.On Monday, as Mr. Trump headed to Hanoi, Vietnam, for a meeting with the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, he tweeted: “Relationship between our two Countries is very strong. I have therefore agreed to delay U.S. tariff hikes. Let’s see what happens?”An earlier version of this article misspelled the name of the North Korean leader. It is Kim Jong-un, not Kim Jung Un.Ana Swanson contributed reporting.

Supported byGood Tuesday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)DealBook exclusive: The energy company plans to announce today that it has given $5 million to Catalyst, a nonprofit focused on making corporate America more hospitable toward women.It’s funding Men Advocating Real Change, a Catalyst campaign that teaches male executives how to improve diversity and inclusion at their companies. (Among its tactics: lessons on unconscious bias.) Lorraine Hariton, Catalyst’s C.E.O., said it was the single biggest grant in the nonprofit’s 50-year history.Chevron has been a longtime supporter of Catalyst. It began working with the nonprofit 20 years ago, and Mike Wirth, the oil and gas giant’s C.E.O., helped introduce this program to the company two years ago. It now runs in seven Chevron offices worldwide.Diversity and inclusion has improved at Chevron. In 2010, only 6 percent of its board and 11 percent of its management committee were women. Now, it’s 36 percent for the board and 20 percent for the management committee. “I think the business case for this is compelling,” Mr. Wirth told Michael de la Merced of DealBook, saying more diversity has improved innovation.But there’s still a lot to do. Mr. Wirth said that oil and gas needed far more women in engineering and technical roles. And Ms. Hariton said that while companies have been hiring more women, the number of top female executives remains too small.President Trump is facing increasing pressure from Republicans, Democrats and even some of his own advisers to win the kind of large concessions that Beijing has long resisted, Alan Rappeport of the NYT writes.Mr. Trump has softened his threats against China. “Citing ‘substantial progress’ in talks between the United States and China, Mr. Trump on Sunday evening halted plans to raise tariffs on $200 billion worth of Chinese goods at the end of this week,” Mr. Rappeport explains.But the Chinese may be dangling false promises, some top Democrats say, in hopes of ending a trade war that is damaging their economy, as well as hurting American farmers. Some Republicans fear that Mr. Trump may settle for a deal that simply reduces the trade deficit and offers relief to Huawei, the Chinese telecom giant.Many big sticking points remain, including China’s state subsidies for its businesses. Beijing also still appears to be falling short of the administration’s demands over intellectual property and cybertheft.“The blowback from both directions may leave Mr. Trump little choice but to keep the threat of tariffs alive so that he can continue to claim he’s being tough on China, analysts said,” according to Mr. Rappeport.More: The FT imagines what a trade deal might look like. Trade war is only one of the threats worrying President Xi Jinping of Chin. U.S. companies are planning their lowest rate of expansion in China since 2016. And a delay on further tariffs probably staved off inflation in America.The Securities and Exchange Commission says a series of tweets Elon Musk published last week violate its agreement with Tesla, and wants him held in contempt of court.Mr. Musk got in trouble last year by tweeting that he had “funding secured” to take Tesla private, when that wasn’t exactly the case. Tesla settled, promising the S.E.C. that it would set up “mandatory procedures to oversee and preapprove Mr. Musk’s Tesla-related written communications.”Then last week, he tweeted about a manufacturing triumph, saying Tesla would make “around 500,000” cars this year, up from a target of 400,000. He soon corrected himself and repeated the target of 400,000 deliveries. Tesla’s lawyers conceded that Mr. Musk hadn’t had his tweets reviewed, but argued “the substance” of his post had already been vetted and publicly disclosed. Mr. Musk followed up by needling the S.E.C., tweeting that it “forgot to read Tesla earnings transcript,” in which he forecast production of between 350,000 and 500,000 cars. “How embarrassing,” he added.“This is not an innocuous tweet,” Rebecca Roiphe, a professor at New York Law School, told the NYT. “Insiders have to be careful about revealing misleading information to the public.”Punishments the S.E.C. could seek, Ms. Roiphe said, include a fine, more restrictions on Mr. Musk’s social media use, or even his removal as C.E.O.With just over a month to go before Britain is scheduled to leave the E.U., Prime Minister Theresa May could U-turn on her commitment to keeping to schedule. And the opposition leader, Jeremy Corbyn, under heavy pressure, has promised to support a second public vote.Mrs. May is letting her cabinet think the unthinkable. The prime minister, who has repeatedly insisted that Brexit will occur on March 29, will allow her colleagues “to discuss extending the deadline” today, according to Bloomberg, which sets out what she’d be risking and why:• “On one hand, it would avert mass resignations from pro-E.U. ministers in May’s team, and potentially a defeat in Parliament this week.”• “But it would also risk a destabilizing backlash from Euroskeptic Conservatives.”And Mr. Corbyn has made a big concession to pro-Europeans. He had long resisted a second Brexit referendum, but has had to reconsider after several pro-E.U. lawmakers quit his Labour Party. Stephen Castle of the NYT explains what the reversal means:• “At the moment, it is unlikely that a second vote would win a majority in Parliament because most lawmakers still oppose the idea.”• “But if Mrs. May’s Brexit plan is rejected next month for a second time, then the calculation in Parliament could change.”Dozens of current and former employees of a company called Cognizant, which reviews content for the social network, spoke to the Verge. The investigation makes for grim reading:• “Employees described a workplace that is perpetually teetering on the brink of chaos. It is an environment where workers cope by telling dark jokes about committing suicide, then smoke weed during breaks to numb their emotions.”• “In stark contrast to the perks lavished on Facebook employees, team leaders micromanage content moderators’ every bathroom and prayer break,” and employees “have been found having sex inside stairwells.”• “They are pressured not to discuss the emotional toll that their job takes on them, even with loved ones, leading to increased feelings of isolation and anxiety.”• “Moderators told me it’s a place where the conspiracy videos and memes that they see each day gradually lead them to embrace fringe views. One auditor walks the floor promoting the idea that the Earth is flat.”• “Moderators in Phoenix will make just $28,800 per year — while the average Facebook employee has a total compensation of $240,000.” Facebook’s response: In a statement yesterday, it said it was “putting in place a rigorous and regular compliance and audit process for all of our outsourced partners to ensure they are complying with the contracts and care we expect.”Bank of America plans to erase the Merrill Lynch name from its investment banking and trading arms. They’ll go by “BofA Securities” rather than “Bank of America Merrill Lynch,” and its wealth-management unit will be “Merrill.”It’s the end of an era. Merrill Lynch was one of the best-known names on Wall Street when Bank of America bought it during the 2008 financial crisis. At the time, Bank of America was a big lender, built from years of acquisitions — but a minnow in high finance.The combined firm struggled with culture clashes. Longtime Merrill employees were proud of “Mother Merrill” and the “thundering herd” that was its wealth-management arm. The WSJ reports that Bank of America backed away from changing the name before.But now it wants a seamless identity. “We are continuing to unify the company, continuing down the road we started on a decade ago,” Bank of America’s C.E.O., Brian Moynihan, told the WSJ. (He has also pushed the firm into safe businesses, de-emphasizing the risk-taking that left Merrill needing a buyer.)The only place where staying as Merrill made sense was in wealth management. Mr. Moynihan called it “the No. 1 brand there is.”Last year, President Trump replaced Janet Yellen with Jerome Powell as head of the Federal Reserve. Since, Mr. Trump has broken with precedent by publicly criticizing Mr. Powell for raising interest rates. Ms. Yellen has now made clear what she thinks of all that in an interview with Marketplace.• When the host of Marketplace, Kai Ryssdal, asked if she thought the president “has a grasp of macroeconomic policy,” Ms. Yellen replied, “No, I do not.”• When asked to elaborate, she said, “Well, I doubt that he would even be able to say that the Fed’s goals are maximum employment and price stability.”• “He’s made comments about the Fed having an exchange rate objective in order to support his trade plans, or possibly targeting the U.S. balance of trade,” she added. “And, you know, I think comments like that shows a lack of understanding of the impact of the Fed on the economy, and appropriate policy goals.”Amazon added the former PepsiCo C.E.O. Indra Nooyi to its board.Deals• G.E., continuing to dismantle itself, agreed to sell its biopharmaceutical business to Danaher for $21.4 billion. (NYT)• Warren Buffett admitted that Berkshire Hathaway overpaid for its stake in Kraft Heinz and said it wouldn’t buy more shares: “The business does not earn more just because you pay more for it.” (Bloomberg)• Barrick Gold’s $17.8 billion bid for Newmont Mining has cast a spotlight on two top deal makers: Barrick’s chairman, John Thornton, and Michael Klein, the rainmaker advising him. (Bloomberg)• How lesser-known private equity firms like Veritas Capital and CC Capital are stealing the limelight from larger rivals. (FT)• The telecom company Windstream filed for bankruptcy protection after losing a court fight with a hedge fund. (Barron’s)Politics and policy• Michael Cohen reportedly plans to tell the House Oversight Committee today that President Trump broke the law while in office. (WSJ)• The Senate appears likely to vote against Mr. Trump’s emergency declaration for a border wall. (Politico)• Alva Johnson, who worked on the 2016 Trump campaign, has accused Mr. Trump of forcibly kissing her. (NYT)• Elizabeth Warren plans to forego fund-raising events with big donors. (NYT)• Meet Andrew Goldstein, one of Robert Mueller’s top deputies for his investigation into the president. (NYT)Tech• Telecom equipment appears not to be the only Chinese tech that makes the U.S. government nervous. (CNBC)• California lawmakers want to toughen the state’s already-strict privacy laws. (Bloomberg)• Microsoft defended its military work after protests from some employees last week. (Wired)• Why Toronto is attracting top tech talent. (FT)• T-Mobile has delayed its full 5G launch until later in 2019. (Verge)Best of the rest• Do two troubled banks make one good one? Germany may soon find out. (NYT)• Why proving Jeff Bezos’ accusations of blackmail and extortion could be tricky. (NYT)• Lyft’s I.P.O. has revived a debate: Should a minority of investors be allowed to control a company through dual-class shares? (FT)• The current stock market rally has everything — except investors. (NYT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.

