Supported byAnother ViewBy Craig A. NewmanGet the DealBook newsletter to make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.__________Sport’s best-kept secrets — confidential information about game-day strategies and player performance and critical insights into competitors — are closely guarded for good reason. The information could help teams as well as those betting on the games gain an edge.The Supreme Court’s ruling in Murphy v. National Collegiate Athletic Association underscores the value of such information. In a 6-to-3 ruling this spring, the court opened the door to the lucrative business of legalized sports wagering in the United States. The justices struck down a law, the Professional and Amateur Sports Protection Act, that barred states from allowing sports gambling. States can now choose whether to pass laws to legalize gambling, and several states are already taking steps to do so.Sports teams, leagues and casinos are all looking to cash in on legalized sports betting. Yet the biggest winner might be hackers. And it won’t take long for them to seize upon the opportunity.Hackers follow the money, and there is lots of it at stake. Although precise data on illegal sports betting in the United States is hard to come by, it’s estimated to be $150 billion to $400 billion yearly. With so much money on the line, everyone will be looking for an edge. Inside information about teams and their players will become more valuable. And that’s an opportunity for sophisticated cybercriminals, who will inevitably seek to hack into confidential sports information and use it to their advantage in placing legal sports bets. It is where cybercrime will no doubt meet insider trading in sports.The competitive value of data analytics gained traction in professional sports in 2002. The Oakland Athletics baseball team didn’t have the bankroll of other major league teams, and its general manager, Billy Beane, needed to figure out a way to build a competitive team on a low budget. Mr. Beane turned to statistics to uncover inefficiencies in the way teams valued players.It worked. The A’s made the playoffs the next two years. Since then (and in part due to Michael Lewis’s book “Moneyball”), teams across sports have used sophisticated analytics to gain an edge.For a sophisticated hacker or an organized crime syndicate, this presents limitless criminal opportunities. Hack into nonpublic sports information, gain an edge and place your bet. The motive can be making a profit, laundering money or, even more nefarious, using confidential player information for extortion.When we think about traditional insider trading — even in our interconnected digital world — we think of rogue stock traders. Today, hackers combine the high-tech sophistication of cybercrime with old-fashioned insider trading. Three years ago, law enforcement authorities indicted stock traders in New York and New Jersey who had been engaged in a multiyear scheme that included hacking into companies like PR Newswire and Business Wire to mine press releases with information about earnings or mergers and trade on the information before it was publicly released. The hackers and traders netted more than $100 million in illegal profits.Such hacking to gain an edge has already hit sports. In 2015, the St. Louis Cardinals’ scouting director, Chris Correa, hacked into the Houston Astros’ database looking for competitive intelligence, including player evaluations. He mined the database for more than two years without detection, using the information to the Cardinals’ advantage. Mr. Correa was later sentenced to 46 months in prison for corporate espionage.Sports teams generate reams of sensitive information relating to players’ salaries, contract negotiations, proposed player swaps, and even injury and other health information, all of which can be used to gain an edge in wagering.And it’s not just the teams that generate information that can be exploited by a hacker. Wearable technology, for example, has become standard in both professional and college sports. It tracks everything from player physiology and heart-rate data to sleep patterns. A hacker could easily exploit the fact that a star running back has suffered from a bout of insomnia and may not be at his best for game day.While stakeholders are scurrying to grab a piece of the gaming pie, they can’t afford to lose sight of the cyber risks to the integrity of the games themselves. Even before the court ruling, there were risks, but now those risks are exponentially greater. By putting heightened cybersecurity safeguards into place now to protect confidential sports information, legal wagering doesn’t have to unleash hackers.Craig A. Newman is a partner and chair of the privacy practice at Patterson Belknap Webb &amp; Tyler, a New York law firm.

Supported byBy Stacy CowleyO’FALLON, Mo. — In a windowless bunker here, a wall of monitors tracked incoming attacks — 267,322 in the last 24 hours, according to one hovering dial, or about three every second — as a dozen analysts stared at screens filled with snippets of computer code.Pacing around, overseeing the stream of warnings, was a former Delta Force soldier who fought in Iraq and Afghanistan before shifting to a new enemy: cyberthieves.“This is not that different from terrorists and drug cartels,” Matt Nyman, the command center’s creator, said as he surveyed his squadron of Mastercard employees. “Fundamentally, threat networks operate in similar ways.”Cybercrime is one of the world’s fastest-growing and most lucrative industries. At least $445 billion was lost last year, up around 30 percent from just three years earlier, a global economic study found, and the Treasury Department recently designated cyberattacks as one of the greatest risks to the American financial sector. For banks and payment companies, the fight feels like a war — and they’re responding with an increasingly militarized approach.Former government cyberspies, soldiers and counterintelligence officials now dominate the top ranks of banks’ security teams. They’ve brought to their new jobs the tools and techniques used for national defense: combat exercises, intelligence hubs modeled on those used in counterterrorism work and threat analysts who monitor the internet’s shadowy corners.At Mastercard, Mr. Nyman oversees the company’s new fusion center, a term borrowed from the Department of Homeland Security. After the attacks of Sept. 11, the agency set up scores of fusion centers to coordinate federal, state and local intelligence-gathering. The approach spread throughout the government, with the centers used to fight disease outbreaks, wildfires and sex trafficking.Then banks grabbed the playbook. At least a dozen of them, from giants like Citigroup and Wells Fargo to regional players such as Bank of the West, have opened fusion centers in recent years, and more are in the works. Fifth Third Bank is building one in its Cincinnati headquarters, and Visa, which created its first two years ago in Virginia, is developing two more, in Britain and Singapore. Having their own intelligence hives, the banks hope, will help them better detect patterns in all the data they amass.The centers also have a symbolic purpose. Having a literal war room reinforces the new reality. Fending off thieves has always been a priority — it’s why banks build vaults — but the arms race has escalated rapidly.Cybersecurity has, for many financial company chiefs, become their biggest fear, eclipsing issues like regulation and the economy.Alfred F. Kelly Jr., Visa’s chief executive, is “completely paranoid” about the subject, he told investors at a conference in March. Bank of America’s Brian T. Moynihan said his cybersecurity team is “the only place in the company that doesn’t have a budget constraint.” (The bank’s chief operations and technology officer said it is spending about $600 million this year.)The military sharpens soldiers’ skills with large-scale combat drills like Jade Helm and Foal Eagle, which send troops into the field to test their tactics and weaponry. The financial sector created its own version: Quantum Dawn, a biennial simulation of a catastrophic cyberstrike.In the latest exercise last November, 900 participants from 50 banks, regulators and law enforcement agencies role-played their response to an industrywide infestation of malicious malware that first corrupted, and then entirely blocked, all outgoing payments from the banks. Throughout the two-day test, the organizers lobbed in new threats every few hours, like denial-of-service attacks that knocked the banks’ websites offline.The first Quantum Dawn, back in 2011, was a lower-key gathering. Participants huddled in a conference room to talk through a mock attack that shut down stock trading. Now, it’s a live-fire drill. Each bank spends months in advance re-creating its internal technology on an isolated test network, a so-called cyber range, so that its employees can fight with their actual tools and software. The company that runs their virtual battlefield, SimSpace, is a Defense Department contractor.Sometimes, the tests expose important gaps.A series of smaller cyber drills coordinated by the Treasury Department, called the Hamilton Series, raised an alarm three years ago. An attack on Sony, attributed to North Korea, had recently exposed sensitive company emails and data, and, in its wake, demolished huge swaths of Sony’s internet network.If something similar happened at a bank, especially a smaller one, regulators asked, would it be able to recover? Those in the room for the drill came away uneasy.“There was a recognition that we needed to add an additional layer of resilience,” said John Carlson, the chief of staff for the Financial Services Information Sharing and Analysis Center, the industry’s main cybersecurity coordination group.Soon after, the group began building a new fail-safe, called Sheltered Harbor, which went into operation last year. If one member of the network has its data compromised or destroyed, others can step in, retrieve its archived records and restore basic customer account access within a day or two. It has not yet been needed, but nearly 70 percent of America’s deposit accounts are now covered by it.The largest banks run dozens of their own, internal attack simulations each year, to smoke out their vulnerabilities and keep their first responders sharp.“It’s the idea of muscle memory,” said Thomas J. Harrington, Citigroup’s chief information security officer, who spent 28 years with the F.B.I.Growing interest among its corporate customers in cybersecurity war games inspired IBM to build a digital range in Cambridge, Mass., where it stages data breaches for customers and prospects to practice on.One recent morning, a fictional bank called Bane &amp; Ox was under attack on IBM’s range, and two dozen real-life executives from a variety of financial companies gathered to defend it. In the training scenario, an unidentified attacker had dumped six million customer records on Pastebin, a site often used by hackers to publish stolen data caches.As the hours ticked by, the assault grew worse. The lost data included financial records and personally identifying details. One of the customers was Colin Powell, the former secretary of state. Phones in the room kept ringing with calls from reporters, irate executives and, eventually, regulators, wanting details about what had occurred.When the group figured out what computer system had been used in the leak, a heated argument broke out: Should they cut off its network access immediately? Or set up surveillance and monitor any further transmissions?At the urging of a Navy veteran who runs the cyberattack response group at a large New York bank, the group left the system connected.“Those are the decisions you don’t want to be making for the first time during a real attack,” said Bob Stasio, IBM’s cyber range operations manager and a former operations chief for the National Security Agency’s cyber center. One financial company’s executive team did such a poor job of talking to its technical team during a past IBM training drill, Mr. Stasio said, that he went home and canceled his credit card with them.Like many cybersecurity bunkers, IBM’s foxhole has deliberately theatrical touches. Whiteboards and giant monitors fill nearly every wall, with graphics that can be manipulated by touch.“You can’t have a fusion center unless you have really cool TVs,” quipped Lawrence Zelvin, a former Homeland Security official who is now Citigroup’s global cybersecurity head, at a recent cybercrime conference. “It’s even better if they do something when you touch them. It doesn’t matter what they do. Just something.”Security pros mockingly refer to such eye candy as “pew pew” maps, an onomatopoeia for the noise of laser guns in 1980s movies and video arcades. They are especially useful, executives concede, to put on display when V.I.P.s or board members stop by for a tour. Two popular “pew pew” maps are from FireEye and the defunct security vendor Norse, whose video game-like maps show laser beams zapping across the globe. Norse went out of business two years ago, and no one is sure what data the map is based on, but everyone agrees that it looks cool.Jason Witty, the chief information security officer at U.S. Bank, admits that the blinking map he breaks out for customer briefings is mostly for show. But it serves a serious purpose, he said: making the command center’s high-stakes work more tangible.“If you show customers the scripts you’re actually running, it’s just digits on a screen,” Mr. Witty said. A big, colorful map is easier to grasp.What everyone in the finance industry is afraid of is a repeat — on an even larger scale — of the data breach that hit Equifax last year.Hackers stole personal information, including Social Security numbers, of more than 146 million people. The attack cost the company’s chief executive and four other top managers their jobs. Who stole the data, and what they did with it, is still not publicly known. The credit bureau has spent $243 million so far cleaning up the mess.It is Mr. Nyman’s job to make sure that doesn’t happen at Mastercard. Walking around the company’s fusion center, he describes the team’s work using military slang. Its focus is “left of boom,” he said — referring to the moments before a bomb explodes. By detecting vulnerabilities and attempted hacks, the analysts aim to head off an Equifax-like explosion.But the attacks keep coming. As he spoke, the dial displayed over his shoulder registered another few assaults on Mastercard’s systems. The total so far this year exceeds 20 million.

Supported byEvery day, cybercrooks inflict immense harm on real victims across our country and around the world. Will Trump protest? By John P. CarlinMr. Carlin, the former assistant United States attorney general for national security and chief of staff to the F.B.I. director Robert Mueller, is the author of the forthcoming “Dawn of the Code War: America’s Battle Against Russia, China, and the Rising Global Cyber Threat.” The indictment of a dozen Russian military intelligence officers by my former boss, Robert Mueller, instantly reshaped the geopolitical backdrop of President Trump’s summit meeting with Vladimir Putin. But the sad truth is that it’s just more evidence of what we’ve known for years: Online, Russia is increasingly a rogue state, a country that plays by its own rules in cyberspace and today stands as the world’s largest safe haven for cybercriminals — not just protected but also aided and abetted by the state. Recent headlines have focused on the attacks of the 2016 election, but every day Russian crooks inflict immense harm on real victims across our country and around the world, causing billions of dollars in losses. Why won’t President Trump call out Mr. Putin for Russia’s rogue behavior in cyberspace? Russia today hosts a “who’s who” of the world’s most wanted hackers, and the list grows almost monthly. The scale of their theft and damage is staggering. In February, the United States indicted 36 individuals for running Infraud, an online criminal enterprise whose brazen name made clear its intentions: “In fraud we trust.” The Infraud website, which trafficked in stolen identities, financial information and malware, facilitated more than $530 million in losses over its seven years in operation; its ringleader, a Russian named Sergei Medvedev, was arrested in Thailand. Because Russia shields and supports the thugocracy operating within its borders, in order for law enforcement to capture them, they have no choice but to wait for the hackers and criminals to travel overseas. Even then, the Russian state fights tooth and nail to protect crooks. Through exemplary international law enforcement cooperation, the notorious Russian spam king Peter Levashov — who was ranked sixth on a global most-wanted list of spammers — was arrested last spring when he traveled to Spain for vacation. Russia fought his extradition, issuing its own arrest warrant for him in a ploy to bring him back home safely and stop him from being brought to justice. (Spanish authorities resisted, and a Spanish court allowed him to be extradited to Connecticut to stand trial.) Russian obstruction efforts often succeed: In recent years, Russia persuaded a Cyprus court to return a hacker wanted by the United States for attacking an American Fortune 100 company; it also fought in Greece to bring home a hacker indicted in the United States for a $4 billion Bitcoin-laundering scheme.One reason Russia likes to bring its hackers back home is that it looks to these actors as potential recruits for state business. Alexsey Belan, currently one of the F.B.I.’s most-wanted cybercriminals, faces multiple indictments in the United States for major fraud schemes. In 2012 and again in 2013, he was charged with identity theft and intrusions against e-commerce companies in the United States. Last year he was indicted on a charge of leading, along with two F.S.B. — a successor intelligence agency to the K.G.B. — intelligence officers, a devastating assault on Yahoo that saw the theft of billions of user names. As outlined in the charging documents, instead of responding to requests for law enforcement cooperation, Russia signed him up as an intelligence asset. Mr. Belan is hardly the only criminal recruited by the government: Another most-wanted man, Evgeniy Bogachev, was indicted on a charge of running the GameOver Zeus botnet, which stole more than $100 million from United States banks and businesses, crippling some of the small businesses he targeted. In 2014, investigators watched with amazement as Mr. Bogachev, apparently in cooperation with Russian intelligence, used his botnet (a remote-controlled network of compromised computers) to target Ukraine, Turkey, Georgia and other Russian adversaries to steal classified information.Given the increasing damage these activities inflict and the threat they pose to world commerce and order, in Helsinki, President Trump needs to call out Russia as the globe’s worst actor online. Both in my previous role in government and in my current practice, I am regularly approached by victims of this behavior — companies or individuals whose losses count in the billions. They can’t defend themselves alone; they need the United States government to stand up for them.President Trump has been silent on the issue, but not the rest of his administration, including his own White House. In February, Sarah Huckabee Sanders issued a statement attributing the “NotPetya” ransomware attack in June 2017 to Russia, saying, “The Russian military launched the most destructive and costly cyberattack in history,” which caused “billions of dollars in damage across Europe, Asia and the Americas.” Damage from that cyberattack alone stretched into the billions; FedEx reported that it suffered more than $300 million in damage. Merck, which had to replace more than 45,000 computers and 4,000 servers after being hit by the ransomware, suffered about $310 million in damage. If Russia physically attacked the corporate headquarters of either Merck or FedEx, causing an equivalent amount of damage, the president would not remain silent. In the past week, Mr. Trump has called out countries including China, Canada and our closest NATO allies for actions that he believes harm United States businesses and interests. So it’s inexplicable that the president has remained silent in the face of Russian actions to enable actors who prey on the very American companies and their employees and customers whom the administration claims to champion. Cyberspace remains a new frontier where global rules and norms are still being established. There is nothing inherent about cyberspace that makes it impervious to law and order. Hard work by investigators and prosecutors around the world has shown time and again that cybercriminals are not anonymous — a lesson underscored by Mr. Mueller’s ability to name 12 Russian intelligence officers responsible for the 2016 election attacks — and that the perpetrators of such crimes can be brought to justice. Mr. Putin’s Russia is the obstacle standing between the world’s most notorious cybercriminals and a prison cell. It’s time to say stop.John P. Carlin, the former assistant United States attorney general for national security and chief of staff to the F.B.I. director Robert Mueller, is currently chairman of the Global Risk &amp; Crisis Management Group at the law firm Morrison &amp; Foerster. He also serves as chairman of the Aspen Institute’s Cybersecurity &amp; Technology Program. He is the author of the forthcoming “Dawn of the Code War: America’s Battle Against Russia, China, and the Rising Global Cyber Threat.” Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 

Supported byBy Andrew E. Kramer and Liz AldermanMOSCOW — A Greek Supreme Court ruling Tuesday in a computer crime case may return to Russia, rather than extradite to the United States, a potential witness in the investigation into Russian hacking during the 2016 American presidential election.The Greek police detained the man, Aleksandr V. Vinnik, last year on an American warrant that accuses him of running a Moscow-based Bitcoin exchange that laundered as much as $4 billion in illegal funds.The warrant made no mention of election hacking. But Mr. Vinnik is accused of operating the exchange, BTC-e, at a time when, American prosecutors say, hackers used such funds to finance the electronic break-in at the Democratic National Committee and other targets. The practice was described in an indictment obtained by the special counsel investigating Russian election meddling, Robert S. Mueller III.Mr. Vinnik has been languishing in a Greek jail cell since July 2017, when the authorities arrested him as he was vacationing in a small beachside village in northern Greece. It was one of a series of American moves against Russians described as cybercriminals as they traveled.In Mr. Vinnik’s case and in two others in Spain and the Czech Republic, the Russian authorities countered with competing extradition requests asserting that the Russians had also committed crimes at home, and that they had not come to light before they left the country.Far-fetched as it may seem, the legal maneuver has worked. And it put European governments in a tug of war between Moscow and Washington over Russians suspected of being computer criminals. Spain and the Czech Republic eventually extradited the suspects to the United States.The American authorities had been pressing Greece to hand over Mr. Vinnik, and Greece initially appeared willing to comply. In October, a three-member panel of judges in the northern city of Thessaloniki backed the American extradition request.But since then, the case has taken on a series of unusual twists.After Mr. Vinnik’s lawyers filed an appeal to the Greek Supreme Court, France also demanded his extradition, claiming he had bilked around 100 French citizens by launching cyberattacks through his Bitcoin platform. In July, the judges in Thessaloniki reversed course and agreed to extradite him to France.That ruling dealt a fresh blow to the tenuous relations between Moscow and Athens, which has long courted Russia as an ally.Earlier that month, Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras had drawn Vladimir V. Putin’s wrath by expelling two Russian diplomats and refusing entry to two others. He acted after Athens said it had uncovered evidence of a Kremlin-backed campaign to manipulate regional politics.Mr. Tsipras accused Russia of fomenting raucous protest rallies in Greece and Macedonia over a referendum in Macedonia to change the country’s name, which would put it on a path to join NATO. Russia, which vigorously opposes an enlargement of the Western alliance, retaliated by expelling Greek diplomats, and accused Washington of “putting pressure” on Greece.When the Thessaloniki court then refused to hand Mr. Vinnik to Moscow, Russia’s foreign ministry warned it would consider reprisals.Mr. Tsipras’s government insisted it wanted to maintain friendly relations. And less than a month later, on July 30, the Thessaloniki court changed course again and accepted Russia’s request that Mr. Vinnik be extradited to Russia.On Tuesday, the Greek Supreme Court issued a preliminary ruling backing the decision. The court is scheduled to issue a final ruling next week. Greece’s justice minister will make the final decision on where Mr. Vinnik will be extradited.In an interview last year, Mr. Vinnik’s Russian lawyer, Timofey S. Musatov, said his client’s case in the United States was unrelated to electoral hacking. Russian prosecutors filed an extradition request on a fraud charge. Mr. Musatov could not be reached for comment Tuesday.In July, the special counsel investigating Russian interference in the 2016 election indicted 12 Russian intelligence officers and revealed details of their operation, including the use of computer servers paid for “using cryptocurrency.” At the time, Mr. Vinnik’s BTC-e platform was the largest virtual currency exchange in Russia.In the cases in Spain and the Czech Republic, relatives and Russian lawyers said the American authorities were seeking access to the suspects for information about election hacking, though the Department of Justice made no such assertions in indictments.A Russian lawyer representing one suspect, Yevgeniy A. Nikulin, wrote an open letter to President Trump warning that his client would be forced to falsely confess to election meddling if extradited to the United States from the Czech Republic. The wife of another suspect, Pyotr Y. Levashov, said the Spanish police told her at the time of the arrest that he was wanted in the United States for election hacking.The Department of Justice sought Mr. Nikulin over accusations that in 2012 he hacked three American technology companies: LinkedIn, Dropbox and Formspring. The allegations against Mr. Levashov related to the spam promotion of penny stocks and pharmaceuticals.Liz Alderman reported from Paris.

Supported byBy Andrew E. KramerA senior official in the Russian cyberintelligence department that American officials say oversaw last year’s election hacking has been arrested in Moscow on charges of treason, a Russian newspaper reported Wednesday.The arrest of Sergei Mikhailov, a senior officer of the Federal Security Service, or F.S.B., the main successor agency to the K.G.B., is a rare instance of turmoil in the country’s usually shadowy cybersecurity apparatus slipping into public view.Mr. Mikhailov served in the F.S.B.’s Center for Information Security, the agency’s cyberintelligence branch, which has been implicated in the American election hacking. But it is not clear whether the arrest was related to those intrusions.He was detained along with one of Russia’s leading private-sector cybersecurity experts, Ruslan Stoyanov, the head of computer incident response investigations at the Kaspersky Lab, which makes antivirus programs.The company confirmed in a statement that Mr. Stoyanov had been arrested, but said his arrest “has nothing to do with Kaspersky Lab and its operations.”Still, the arrests of the men, who had cooperated in Russia to prosecute cybercriminals, shed light on the intersection of cybercrime, private antivirus companies and the Russian security services.Western cybersecurity analysts have said there are indications that the security services recruited among criminal hackers to carry out politicized computer intrusions ahead of last summer’s hacking of the Democratic National Committee in the United States, giving the hackers impunity to commit financially motivated attacks in exchange for their expertise.The arrest raised the possibility that Mr. Mikhailov and Mr. Stoyanov had interfered in this cooperation. The newspaper article, in Kommersant, which cited unidentified sources in Moscow’s technology industry and the F.S.B., said the treason charges related to work on criminal hacking investigations.Alternatively, the detention of an official who would have been in a position to engage in the election hacking in America could indicate a good-will gesture to the United States, which has penalized Russia for the electoral meddling.American intelligence agencies accused the F.S.B. and another Russian agency, the military’s Main Intelligence Directorate, or G.R.U., of hacking the Democratic National Committee and other electoral targets.The sanctions targeted the two Russian intelligence agencies. But private American cybersecurity investigators say the F.S.B., where Mr. Mikhailov was the second-most senior figure in the Center for Information Security, operated a group nicknamed Cozy Bear that stole data but never released it. The G.R.U., the American cybersleuths say, operated a group called Fancy Bear that stole electronic data and released it in an effort to help Donald J. Trump win the presidential election.If confirmed, the arrest would be one of the highest-profile detentions for treason within the F.S.B. since the breakup of the Soviet Union.In another indication of high-level turmoil over cyberintelligence issues within the security agency, Kommersant reported on Jan. 13 that the director of the Center for Information Security, Andrei Gerasimov, would be fired. His termination was related to the investigation into the agency’s cooperation with Kaspersky on criminal hacking cases.Mr. Gerasimov, who has led the Center for Information Security since 2009, was described as building close ties with companies like the Kaspersky Lab as an element in Russia’s cybersecurity policy. He is also the deputy director for counterintelligence at the F.S.B.The F.S.B. did not respond to an email query about the arrests.Follow Andrew E. Kramer on Twitter @AndrewKramerNYT. 

Supported byBy Andrew E. KramerMOSCOW — The treason trial of some of Russia’s top cybersecurity officials ended on Tuesday without solving the mysteries at the center of the case: Why had the men been arrested and what, if anything, did they have to do with Russia’s efforts to disrupt the 2016 American presidential election? Was the prosecution driven not by geopolitical concerns but by a businessman’s desire for revenge?The case began when Russian counterintelligence investigators seized several leading cybersecurity officials in raids conducted in early December 2016. With the arrests coming one month after the American election, speculation swirled that the men had been caught leaking information that helped the F.B.I.’s investigation into Russia’s election hacking.But no clear evidence of that has ever emerged, and the drawn-out trial wrapped up in a Moscow military courtroom without shedding any official light on the reasons for the arrests or if the timing of them, coming so close to the election, signaled a connection to the Russian meddling.Under the watchful eye of security forces wearing ski masks, journalists were allowed into the courtroom for the first time on Tuesday to hear the verdict. Speaking for about 10 minutes, a judge convicted the two main figures and sentenced them to lengthy terms in prison for treason, without saying why.Sergei Mikhailov, a former deputy director of the computer crimes unit of the Federal Security Service, the main successor agency to the K.G.B., was sentenced to 22 years in a penal colony on two counts of treason.Ruslan Stoyanov, a senior researcher at Kaspersky Lab, an antivirus company, was sentenced to 14 years on one count of treason. Two other suspects had earlier pleaded guilty and are awaiting sentencing.Both men convicted Tuesday had for years cooperated with United States law enforcement and Western computer security researchers on bread-and-butter cybercrime issues like stopping spam and bank fraud.But then came the election hacking scandal in 2016, and the men’s arrests signaled that this type of cooperation would stop.Cooperating with the United States was “something that went out of fashion after the scandal,” said Andrei Soldatov, the author of “The Red Web,” and an authority on Russian internet policies.As part of the election interference operation, two Russian hacking groups intruded into the servers of the Democratic National Committee. One group was affiliated with the F.S.B., Mr. Mikhailov’s agency, and the other with the Russian military intelligence organization known as the G.R.U., according to United States government officials and cybersecurity researchers who studied the breach.Only the G.R.U. leaked the stolen information, according to a United States interagency report on the hacking released in 2017. The special counsel investigating Russian meddling, Robert S. Mueller III, last year indicted 12 G.R.U. officers.The detailed accusations by American intelligence agencies against Russia, and the stated high level of confidence in their findings, gave rise to questions about whether they had sources inside Russia.Leaks about the treason case reported in the Russian news media, as well as interviews with defense lawyers and a witness, have indicated that the defendants’ ties to American officials long predated the presidential campaign, and that the information they passed on was not directly related to the hacking investigation.Kommersant, a Russian newspaper, reported this month that Mr. Mikhailov and Mr. Stoyanov were accused of revealing to the F.B.I. information about F.S.B. investigative methods while cooperating with American colleagues on a criminal case nearly a decade ago.Mr. Mikhailov, through intermediaries, passed the data to the F.B.I. in 2011 while investigating ChronoPay, a Russian online payments processing company, the newspaper report said, potentially opening a window on money flows in the Russian online underworld — information that could also be useful in the investigation of the election hacking.At the time, Russia was under diplomatic pressure from the United States and Canada to prosecute the company’s owner, Pavel Vrublevsky, for selling counterfeit erectile dysfunction pills to Americans through websites. Mr. Vrublevsky has denied ties to that scheme.Mr. Mikhailov led the successful prosecution of Mr. Vrublevsky on a separate accusation of hacking the payment system for online ticket sales at Aeroflot, the Russian national airline.Outside the courtroom on Tuesday, a defense lawyer, Inga Lebedeva, told reporters that Mr. Vrublevsky had initiated the treason case in a vendetta against the F.S.B. official and the cybercrime researcher who had put him in prison in the Aeroflot case.“His goal was revenge,” Ms. Lebedeva said. At no point during the closed trial, she said, had Russian meddling in the 2016 United States election come up.“The boys think that in their activities against hackers and criminals they stepped on somebody’s tail,” Ms. Lebedeva said of the two defendants. She said both men would appeal their convictions.Mr. Vrublevsky, in an interview, said he had testified against the pair in the treason trial and believed that they had indeed illegally passed information to the American authorities, but not about election hacking. “These guys were selling fairy tales to the United States about people doing business, like me,” he said.Still, the arrests amounted to a purge of the leadership of the cyberwing of Russia’s main intelligence agency in the midst of the electoral hacking scandal, an issue carrying immense implications for Russia’s relations with the United States.Along with Mr. Mikhailov, who was reportedly dragged from an F.S.B. meeting with a bag over his head, Russian counterintelligence officers detained his deputy, Dmitry A. Dokuchaev. Mr. Dokuchaev pleaded guilty in the treason case.The United States has not accused Mr. Dokuchaev of having any role in the election hacking but has indicted him in a separate cybercrime case that overlaps with sanctions imposed on Russians for election meddling. Federal authorities in Washington and San Francisco in 2017 accused Mr. Dokuchaev, who at the time was also facing the treason charge in Russia, of doubling as a cybercriminal while working at the F.S.B. He was accused of hacking Yahoo and stealing 500 million passwords.That indictment identified him as having overseen the work of one of three others named in the Yahoo hack, a suspected cybercriminal, Aleksei A. Belan, whom the Obama administration placed under sanctions in relation to the election hacking.

Supported byAbout New YorkBy Jim DwyerThe streets of Upper Manhattan were quiet, but a police officer saw two men standing in front of a blue mailbox at Broadway and Academy Street.It was around 1:30 a.m., Jan. 17.One of the men was holding a plastic bottle, which was tied to a string. While his partner stood lookout, the other man lowered the bottle into the mailbox, as if he were feeding a line off a pier, played the string a bit, then pulled it out.Four pieces of mail were stuck to the bottle.When the police officer stepped forward, the two men took off, leaving behind the plastic bottle. They were quickly caught. The mail was stuck on the bottle with glue.“Such devices are commonly used to obtain mail from inside of mailboxes,” Officer Vito Guagenti said in a criminal complaint.This may be the age of cybercrime, but in some New York neighborhoods crooks are on a spree of fishing old-fashioned snail mail out of street corner mailboxes, using decidedly low-tech tools like plastic bottles, glue and string.Or, as in another case in Upper Manhattan, a glue trap like those typically used to catch mice.Some thieves wash the ink off the checks they snare and change the payees’ names. Others make trouble by using the account information.Over the last year or so, the police and postal inspectors made about 150 arrests in the Bronx on charges of mail fishing, according to Donna Harris, a spokeswoman in New York for the United States Postal Inspection Service.“We’ve been keeping this low profile,” she said. After realizing that “we weren’t going to arrest our way out of the problem,” Ms. Harris said, the postal authorities started changing the Bronx street mailboxes to make them harder to pilfer.Like fishing fleets that go where the schools are running, the mail thieves seemed to have pulled anchor in the Bronx and sailed to northern Manhattan. Since October, 14 arrests have been made there, Ms. Harris said.The crime wave had little chance of staying low profile, thanks to social media and reporting by the news website DNAinfo. Residents have taped warnings on the boxes after finding coatings of glue, or double-side tape.Laurie Piette was walking her dog one morning in November in the Inwood neighborhood and spotted an envelope addressed to Con Edison that was stuck to a mouse glue trap. The envelope had been torn open, but the return address was legible. She posted an inquiry on Facebook.Eventually, word got to the sender, Helen M. Churko, who had mailed her Con Edison bill and check a few days earlier.A picture of the torn envelope stuck to the mouse glue trap was posted online.“It was a great photograph,” Ms. Churko said, but shocking. “Literally the minute I stopped getting hysterical, I called my bank and told them what was going on.”With electronic payment available for many bills, you might think that the pickings would be slim for mailbox thieves. But particularly in parts of Inwood and along Fort Washington Avenue in Washington Heights, older residents are more likely to use checks to pay their bills by mail.For her part, Ms. Churko said she wrote checks because she was on computers all day at work. “I’m old school when it comes to things like money,” she said. “There are too many stories about cybertheft and identity theft.”Also, many landlords do not accept electronic payment. A few days into January, Andrew Graham dropped his rent check into a mailbox at Broadway and Dongan Place. He got a call from his bank. Someone had taken the check and written another name over the landlord’s. “Whoever’s committing fraud in this way is really looking for unbanked folks who are mailing out money orders or cash,” he said.Barbara Kennedy mailed her rent check in a box at Fort Washington Avenue and 183rd Street after the last pickup on Dec. 28. The next morning, she saw the mailbox had been pried open and emptied. She stopped payment. “I put two posts on Facebook to alert people,” Ms. Kennedy said.People are being advised not to deposit mail after the last pickup of the day or on weekends. “That lets it sit in the box overnight,” said Ms. Harris of the postal inspectors. (She said to report suspicious activity to 212-330-2400 or 911.)The Police Department also advised using gel ink, which is harder to wash off.“We’re supposed to write our checks with indelible ink?” Ms. Churko said. “This ticks me off even more.”Email: dwyer@nytimes.comTwitter: @jimdwyernyt

Supported byBy Alexandra StevensonIt’s a scene that Maria Ressa, a co-founder of an online news start-up critical of President Rodrigo Duterte of the Philippines, has grown accustomed to.Late Wednesday afternoon, several plainclothes agents from the National Bureau of Investigations arrived in Ms. Ressa’s newsroom in Manila with a warrant for her arrest in a digital libel case involving her online news site, Rappler. An hour later, they took her and her lawyer away.Ms. Ressa’s arrest is the most dramatic sign yet of Mr. Duterte’s crackdown on the news media in the Philippines. Mr. Duterte has not tried to hide his disdain for journalists, calling reporters “sons of bitches” and “spies” and even warning that they are “not exempted from assassination.”As she left the building flanked by police officers, Ms. Ressa addressed reporters, telling them, “I will do the right thing.”“These legal acrobatics show how far the government will go to silence journalists, including the pettiness of forcing me to spend the night in jail,” she later added in an emailed statement.A judge initially denied bail to Ms. Ressa on Wednesday night, and she stayed in a conference room at the jail, editors at Rappler said. She was released after her lawyers posted bail for her on Thursday morning.Chay Hofileña, a Rappler executive, said the arrest was “about media intimidation and media harassment.”“This is proof,” she added, “because Rappler has been critical of the government, and they are very intent on silencing us.”Ms. Ressa had already been served an arrest warrant and turned herself in to the authorities in December to face tax evasion charges. This time, the arrest warrant was related to an article that Rappler published in May 2012. In both cases, Ms. Ressa has called the charges “unfounded” and part of a larger attack on news outlets in the Philippines.The arrest on Wednesday stemmed from an indictment filed by the Department of Justice against Ms. Ressa and Reynaldo Santos Jr., a former researcher and writer for Rappler. The  article that’s involved said Renato Corona, then the chief justice, had used a car that was registered to a businessman named Wilfredo Keng.The Cybercrime Prevention Act, under which Ms. Ressa was charged, was approved four months after the article’s publication and came into effect in October 2012.In a court filing last year, Ms. Ressa denied the charges and called them “baffling and unfounded,” adding that the government was applying a law retroactively.For several years, Rappler and other news outlets have closely followed a brutal antidrug war waged by Mr. Duterte that has resulted in the deaths of thousands of people. Their coverage helped draw international attention to the campaign, resulting in widespread international rebuke.Mr. Duterte has also threatened reporters from other publications and warned that he would not allow the renewal of the license for ABS-CBN, the biggest broadcast news network in the Philippines.But Ms. Ressa has been on the receiving end of an onslaught of legal attacks by the government. Her star political reporter has been stripped of her press pass, equivalent to a White House pass, and Rappler has been barred from covering presidential appearances. She faces charges related to a handful of different laws including ones governing financial securities and cybercrimes.The arrest on Wednesday provoked an outcry from journalists in the Philippines. The country’s National Union of Journalists said in a statement that the “clearly manipulated charge of cyber libel” was “a shameless act of persecution by a bully government.”“It may try its damnedest, but we know it will fail,” the statement added of the government and its actions, because “independent Filipino journalists will never allow freedom of the press to be suppressed.”Ms. Ressa created Rappler in 2012 with three high-powered journalists — Lilibeth Frondoso, Glenda Gloria and Ms. Hofileña — who cut their teeth as reporters during the “people power” revolt that brought down President Ferdinand E. Marcos in the mid-1980s. They shared a view that the internet would be a platform to level the playing field in news and give a voice to the voiceless.They have been threatened with death and arrested before. For example, Ms. Frondoso, head of multimedia at Rappler, once found herself in prison with her newborn child, and Ms. Gloria, the managing editor, once opened her door to find a black funeral wreath on her doorstep.Rappler gained traction with the rise of Mr. Duterte, a political strongman who came to power amid a wave of populism.Ms. Ressa’s arrest comes as journalists in many parts of the world are facing increasing pressure from their governments. In one glaring example, two Reuters journalists are serving a seven-year prison sentence for reporting on atrocities against the Rohingya minority in Myanmar.Follow Alexandra Stevenson on Twitter: @jotted.Jason Gutierrez contributed reporting from Manila.

Supported byBy Jacey FortinA man accused of setting fire to three predominantly black churches in a southern Louisiana parish was charged with hate crimes on Monday, The Associated Press reported, adding to the three charges of arson that were filed last week.The man, Holden Matthews, the 21-year-old son of a deputy sheriff, was arrested on Wednesday, accused of setting fire to the churches within 10 days in St. Landry Parish, north of Lafayette. He pleaded not guilty on Monday and was not granted bond.The three fires destroyed churches that had existed for more than a century and had been the spiritual homes of generations of black families, evoking the long history of racist crimes committed in the Jim Crow South.At a news conference last week, the authorities announced Mr. Matthews’s arrest and the initial charges of three counts of simple arson of a church building. Gov. John Bel Edwards of Louisiana said at the time that although he did not know the motivation behind the fires, “these were evil acts.”The authorities also suggested a possible connection to black metal, a genre of music they said had been linked to church burnings in the past. Mr. Matthews was a member of a black metal band called Vodka Vultures.Prosecutors filed three additional charges again Mr. Matthews on Monday declaring the arsons hate crimes, The Associated Press reported.St. Landry Parish is a rural area in the heart of Cajun and Creole country. It is 56 percent white and 41 percent black. The fires, which destroyed the three churches, occurred on March 26, April 2 and April 4. The first was at St. Mary Baptist Church in the Port Barre; the two others were at Greater Union Baptist Church and Mount Pleasant Baptist Church in the small city of Opelousas, the parish seat.At a court hearing on Monday, the state fire marshal, Butch Browning, cited extensive evidence tying Mr. Matthews to the blazes, including cellphone records that showed his location, and photographs on his phone that captured the fires in their early stages, The Associated Press reported. The fires were started with gasoline, and the churches were empty when they were set aflame.A fourth fire, a small blaze that officials said was “intentionally set,” was reported on March 31 at a predominantly white church in Caddo Parish, about a three-hour drive north. It was unclear whether that fire was connected to the others.The F.B.I. and the federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives had been involved in the investigation, as well as the Louisiana and Florida state fire marshals, the cybercrime unit of the Louisiana attorney general’s office, and state and local police.Mr. Matthews’s lawyer did not immediately respond to requests for comment, and the district attorney for St. Landry Parish could not be reached on Monday evening.

A lot of people applied. Only one will be chosen to travel around the world.

Supported byBy Alan Blinder, John Eligon and Karen ZraickOPELOUSAS, La. — The 21-year-old son of a deputy sheriff was charged in connection with the burning of three predominantly black churches in St. Landry Parish, La., the authorities announced on Thursday.The arrest of the deputy’s son, Holden Matthews, came about two weeks after the first fire, which evoked the racist imagery of the Jim Crow South and set on edge a Cajun community with a large black population and deep Christian roots.The three blazes took place within a span of 10 days, destroying churches that had been around for more than a century and had been the spiritual homes of generations of black families.At a news conference announcing the arrest and charges of three counts of simple arson of a church building, Gov. John Bel Edwards of Louisiana said that although he did not know the motivation behind the fires, “these were evil acts.”[‘They didn’t burn down our spirit’: black churches in Louisiana were worried but defiant after the fires.]The authorities said the blazes were intentionally set and related. And while an investigation continues into what provoked the attacks, the authorities suggested at the news conference a possible connection to black metal, a genre of music they said has a related history to church burnings. Mr. Matthews was a member of a black metal band called Vodka Vultures.Mr. Matthews’s father is a longtime deputy in the St. Landry Parish sheriff’s office.“His dad has been a sheriff for a number of years, he’s a good fellow,” said Representative Clay Higgins, a Republican congressman representing the area and a former deputy with the St. Landry Parish sheriff. “My understanding is the son has had a troubled past.”At an address linked to Mr. Matthews, a woman declined to comment on Thursday.“No statement, no comment!” she shouted just after a reporter passed the saddle-topped mailbox along a state highway. “Please leave! Goodbye!”A horse trailer was parked outside the home, set down a gravel driveway and behind a pond. Farmland filled the distance behind the house, which had few windows.Monica Harris is a member of the Greater Union Baptist Church in Opelousas that was burned down. It had been her family’s church for generations, with her parents raising her and her 11 siblings there. She was baptized and married there, and her parents, who died last year, are buried in the cemetery on the church’s grounds.“I was uneasy with the fact that somebody invaded their resting space,” Ms. Harris, 57, said on Thursday. “Now that they’ve caught someone, I feel more at ease that they’re able to rest now.”The fires, which destroyed the three churches, occurred on March 26, April 2 and April 4 in St. Landry Parish, north of Lafayette. The first was at St. Mary Baptist in Port Barre; the two others were at Greater Union Baptist Church and Mount Pleasant Baptist in Opelousas, the St. Landry Parish seat.A fourth fire, a small blaze that officials said was “intentionally set,” was reported on March 31 at a predominantly white church in Caddo Parish, about a three-hour drive north. It was unclear if that fire was connected to the others.The F.B.I. and the federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives had been involved in the investigation, as well as the Louisiana and Florida state fire marshals, the cybercrime unit of the Louisiana attorney general’s office, and state and local police.Since the 1950s, black churches across the South have been the targets of racist attacks, from arson and bombing to armed assault.

Supported byBy Adam GoldmanA proliferation of digital spying tools in recent years has helped generate a surge in sophisticated espionage operations, once mostly the purview of major powers like the United States and Russia. Now, small countries, corporations and even simply wealthy people looking to settle scores can all hire private firms to conduct intelligence operations.A New York Times investigation detailed this new era of digital warfare and the multibillion-dollar industry behind it. Two firms — NSO, an Israeli company, and DarkMatter, based in the United Arab Emirates — have hired former government hackers to help their government clients not only hack criminal elements like terrorist groups and drug cartels but in some cases to also act on darker impulses, targeting activists and journalists.[Hackers for hire: How former American and Israeli government operatives conduct espionage on behalf of authoritarian governments]Governments rely on surveillance as part of legitimate law enforcement investigations. NSO, selling technology created by graduates of Intelligence Unit 8200 — Israel’s equivalent of the National Security Agency — says it “helps government agencies prevent and investigate terrorism and crime to save thousands of lives around the globe.” Mexican officials have credited NSO technology as pivotal in helping to track and capture El Chapo, the drug lord convicted in New York last month. DarkMatter helps with internal security in the United Arab Emirates, former employees said, thwarting terrorism and helping the police solve crimes.But the Mexican government is also suspected of using NSO tools to spy on its own citizens, including journalists and activists. Saudi Arabia was also accused in a lawsuit of using NSO tools to spy on associates of Jamal Khashoggi, the Washington Post columnist who was killed in October by Saudi operatives in the kingdom’s embassy in Istanbul.The government of the United Arab Emirates used both DarkMatter and NSO tools to spy on Ahmed Mansoor, a prominent human rights activist, The Times found.The proliferation of companies trying to compete in what Moody’s estimates is a $12 billion market for so-called lawful intercept spyware has set off a fierce competition to hire American, Israeli and Russian veterans of the world’s most sophisticated intelligence agencies — and for the companies to poach talent from one another.NSO’s business model appears to be paying off. Francisco Partners, a private equity firm, purchased a 70 percent stake in the company for $130 million six years ago. This year, NSO had a valuation of just under $1 billion.F.B.I. agents and federal prosecutors in Washington are trying to determine whether any Americans working for DarkMatter broke United States law. Investigators are examining whether DarkMatter employees committed internet fraud if they hacked into American servers or email accounts such as Google or Yahoo or whether they violated export laws.The Americans, some of whom worked for the N.S.A. and the C.I.A., should have sought an export license from the United States government when they accepted jobs at DarkMatter, according to people familiar with the investigation. But DarkMatter defenders say foreign companies do not need to apply for an export license and the Americans provided no technical data or secret tools to the Emirati government, nor were they engaged in training or assisting Emirati military forces.“It’s a dangerous area,” said Edward Y. Kim, a former federal prosecutor who was the co-chief of the complex fraud and cybercrime unit in the United States attorney’s office in Manhattan. “I think, sometimes, you have folks who come from that the national security side who are adept at the technical aspects of the work but not the legal complications.”Follow Adam Goldman on Twitter: @adamgoldmanNYT.

Supported byBy Bruce HorovitzA new partnership among two prominent Israeli venture capital funds, a handful of major private-sector companies and the city’s economic growth development enterprise is hoping to turn New York City into the nation’s leading center for yet one more major industry: cybersecurity.Cyber NYC, as the project is called, is among the nation’s most ambitious cybersecurity initiatives, which over the next decade could transform New York City into a global leader of cybersecurity innovation and job creation.The multiyear project would simultaneously create a Global Cyber Center in Chelsea, a cybersecurity innovation hub in the SoHo neighborhood of Manhattan and an academic cybepartnership with area colleges, such as Columbia University, New York University and City University of New York. At the same time, major corporations such as Goldman Sachs, Mastercard and PricewaterhouseCoopers also are participating in advisory roles or to assist with the project’s training and hiring.“We are at a seminal moment in the trajectory of the cybersecurity industry,” said James Patchett, president and chief executive of the New York City Economic Development Corporation, which is spearheading the Cyber NYC initiative, including assembling and leading public-private partnerships and developing and overseeing six programs to grow New York’s cyberindustry and expand the work force.“Making New York City the epicenter of cybersecurity makes complete sense because New York City is where all the customers are,” Mr. Patchett said.Cyber NYC will initially be funded by about $70 million in private investments, including from the two Israeli firms: Jerusalem Venture Partners, a venture capital fund; and SOSA, a corporate innovation specialist, among others Another $30 million is coming from the city. Its goal: to create 10,000 local cybersecurity jobs over the next decade as part of Mayor de Blasio’s New York Works Plan.Two new cybersecurity centers in separate locations will work in tandem to anchor this project. In SoHo, a 50,000-square-foot cybersecurity investment hub will support cybersecurity start-ups in New York City. In Chelsea, the 15,000-square-foot Global Cyber Center will bring together investors, corporations and start-ups and serve as a virtual testing ground to run simulations. Both are expected to be completed before the end of 2019.According to the New York City Economic Development Corporation, cybersecurity already is a $1 billion-plus industry in New York, with more than 100 companies and 6,000 employees as of 2017.Those numbers are expected to grow as the city continues to attract new technology-related companies. The highest-profile is Amazon, which selected New York’s Long Island City as one of its East Coast headquarters. “We’re the logical place for this to be located,” Mr. Patchett said.The real driver behind a project like Cyber NYC is the nation’s urgent need for improved cybersecurity at all levels of corporate and government operations. Nearly 60 million Americans have been affected by identity theft, according to a 2018 online survey by The Harris Poll, an increase from 15 million in 2017.Cybersecurity attacks have become so common that experts worry about the onset of “cyberfatigue” as consumers begun to shrug off their impact. A corporate cyberattack takes place every 40 seconds via ransomware across the globe, reported Cybersecurity Ventures, a research specialist in the global cybereconomy. That figure is expected to be every 14 seconds by next year. Cybercrimes, Cybersecurity Ventures also noted, are predicted to cause $6 trillion in damages by 2021, an increase from $3 trillion in 2015.Despite the clear need for cybersecurity upgrades and improvements, not everyone is convinced that a project like Cyber NYC is the right solution.“This sounds like a huge marketing pitch,” said Bruce Schneier, a cybersecurity expert who has written 13 books on the topic. “I’ve worked in this field forever, and I’ve never even heard the term cybersecurity hub.” Such skepticism doesn’t really bother Erel Margalit, founder and chairman of Jerusalem Venture Partners, which is overseeing the creation of the cybersecurity investment hub in SoHo.“Come and see what we already have done in Israel,” Mr. Margalit said, in response to Mr. Schneier’s skepticism. Jerusalem Venture Partners has raised over $1.3 billion to create and finance more than 130 companies — more than one-third of them in cybersecurity, including CyberArk, which is one of Israel’s largest cybersecurity companies (Israel is second to the U.S. in terms of overall investment in cybersecurity firms). “If someone wants to call this a marketing ploy, O.K. The storytelling part is important. When you tell people a story, they listen.”Mr. Margalit, who as a former member of Israel’s legislative body, the Knesset, led its cybersecurity task force. Mr. Margalit earned his Ph.D. at Columbia and was living in New York City during 9/11. He says that his company will oversee much of the business end of the venture. “Most innovation occurs when the two disciplines meet: investors and cybersecurity experts,” he said.Equally invested in Cyber NYC’s success is Uzi Scheffer, chief executive of SOSA, which has offices in Tel Aviv and New York. The company mostly focuses on protecting major financial companies from cyberattacks. While SOSA already has been operating out of another New York location for about 18 months, it is building the Global Cyber Center in Chelsea and plans to move into it in 2019.“The Global Cyber Center will expose New York’s largest players to the best cybersecurity solutions out there,” said Mr. Scheffer.Mr. Scheffer said a global cybersecurity hub doesn’t really exist anywhere yet. “It’s about seizing the opportunity rather than taking it away from someone else,” said Scheffer, whose firm, like Jerusalem Venture Partners, secured its partnership with Cyber NYC through a competitive bidding process.There’s also a serious academic element to the overall cybersecurity partnership, which involves the participation of virtually every major academic institution in New York City. “Whether or not this leads to New York becoming the single, cybersecurity hub of the world is a story that will be played out over the next 15 years,” said Orin Herskowitz, senior vice president of Intellectual Property and Tech Transfer for Columbia University. In the meantime, he says, the combined efforts will train and link local university students with substantive cybersecurity jobs in NYC.“There is a real chance this will become a catalytic event,” Mr. Herskowitz said.There’s even a so-called Cybersecurity Boot Camp planned, where the city’s Fullstack Academy and CUNY LaGuardia Community College plan to educate and place more than 1,000 students in high-paying cybersecurity jobs over the first three years of the program. Program development for the boot camp has begun with the first session scheduled to take place in spring 2019.Until now, all of the major cybersecurity stakeholders in New York City have been physically and operationally separated, said Satish Rao, associate director of physical sciences licensing at Columbia, who helps to support cybersecurity start-ups. But with Cyber NYC, he said, “a coalition of stakeholders is coming together.”One such stakeholder is Mark Gazit, chief executive of ThetaRay, an Israeli financial cybersecurity specialty company, which opened a temporary New York office at another location 18 months ago, but will be ultimately be housed in the SoHo building early next year. ThetaRay will start with about 15 to 20 employees at the location, but plans to have more than 100 within several years, Gazit said.“Few people come to a bank branch and use a gun to steal money,” he said. Today, the thief is far more likely to be behind a server in some remote country, stealing money without any physical access to the bank, he says. His company, which aims to prevent the spread of this cybercrime, works with such clients as General Electric.To be a cybercriminal is the highest-paying, low-risk job in the world, Mr. Gazit said. “Nobody knows who you are, and you can disappear without a trace,” he says.His and other cybersecurity companies hope to make New York City the center of halting cybercrime. There is no better location than New York, said Mr. Gazit, because New York is where the talent is and where the financial giants are headquartered.“At the end of the day,” Mr. Gazit said, “we have to make sure the good guys win. ”Because of editing errors, earlier versions of picture captions with this article misidentified a building in SoHo that is part of the Cyber NYC initiative. It is a future cybersecurity innovation hub, not the future Global Cyber Center, which will be in Chelsea. One of the captions also misspelled the surnames of two people involved with the hub. They are Tali Rabin, not Raben, and Gil Becker, not Beker.

Supported byThe government charged Julian Assange, founder of WikiLeaks, not with publishing classified government information, but with stealing it, skirting — for now — critical First Amendment questions.By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.The arrest in London of the WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange ends one bizarre saga, but opens a legal drama that is likely to stretch over many years and could probe uncharted areas of press freedoms and national security in the United States in the digital era. There is good reason to be watchful as the case unfolds.Mr. Assange, a 47-year-old Australian, had spent almost seven years holed up in the Ecuadorean Embassy, initially to avoid arrest by Swedish authorities in a sexual assault investigation that has since been dropped, then British charges of skipping bail. But extradition to the United States was what Mr. Assange really feared, and what the cat-and-mouse game was always about.It was in the United States that the materials posted on WikiLeaks created the greatest furor, first through the publication of a trove of classified documents supplied by an Army private, Chelsea Manning, and then by releasing material stolen from the computers of Hillary Clinton’s campaign.The Obama administration was wary of pursuing Mr. Assange because WikiLeaks was essentially involved in investigative work common to a free press. But the Trump administration saw Mr. Assange and WikiLeaks as targets as soon as it took office. (Mr. Trump loved WikiLeaks in 2016 when it was embarrassing top officials of the Clinton campaign.) Two years ago, as director of the C.I.A., Mike Pompeo labeled WikiLeaks “a nonstate hostile intelligence service” after it released a cache of C.I.A. hacking tools. Efforts got underway then to build a case against Mr. Assange. This was confirmed through an inadvertent mention in a federal court filing last November.Mr. Assange, meanwhile, managed to exhaust his welcome at the Ecuadorean Embassy, and on Thursday British police officers unceremoniously bundled the scraggly-bearded refugee off in a van. Soon after, Scotland Yard acknowledged that it was also acting on an American extradition warrant, after which a federal indictment was unsealed in the United States charging Mr. Assange with conspiring to hack a government computer.The single charge is straightforward: It alleges that Mr. Assange helped the Army private break into a government computer in 2010 to steal classified and sensitive documents. According to the indictment, when Ms. Manning told Mr. Assange that she had no more material to send him, he replied, “Curious eyes never run dry in my experience.” Ms. Manning served almost seven years of a 35-year sentence for the leak, and is now back in jail for refusing to testify before a grand jury investigating WikiLeaks.The still-unproven charge is far less contentious than had it been, as widely anticipated, for espionage-related crimes. That would have been a direct challenge to the distinction between a journalist exposing abuse of power through leaked materials — something traditional newspapers like The Times do all the time — and a foreign agent seeking to undermine the security of the United States through theft or subterfuge.These questions will arise in any event — starting with the extradition hearings, at which Mr. Assange’s lawyers are likely to argue that the American charges are politically motivated. And if Britain does extradite him, there is no certainty that the Trump administration, with its combative stance toward the press and its documented recent antipathy for Mr. Assange, will not throw more charges at him.The issues WikiLeaks raises are vitally important. The responsibilities, ethics and rules of journalism are fast changing in an era when terabytes of secret data can be dumped in a flash, and when hostile governments like Russia’s can burrow into foreign computers for compromising information and then launder it through other channels.The case of Mr. Assange, who got his start as a computer hacker, illuminates the conflict of freedom and harm in the new technologies, and could help draw a sharp line between legitimate journalism and dangerous cybercrime. Once in the United States, moreover, he could become a useful source on how Russia orchestrated its attacks on the Clinton campaign.The administration has begun well by charging Mr. Assange with an indisputable crime. But there is always a risk with this administration — one that labels the free press as “the enemy of the people” — that the prosecution of Mr. Assange could become an assault on the First Amendment and whistle-blowers.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.An earlier version of this editorial said that Julian Assange sought refuge in the Ecuadorean Embassy to avoid arrest on sex charges in Sweden that have since been dropped. Mr. Assange was never formally charged in that investigation.

Supported byBy Ben SisarioNetflix has blocked an episode of its show “Patriot Act With Hasan Minhaj” from streaming in Saudi Arabia after the Saudi government complained that the episode — which is critical of the crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman — violated its cybercrime laws.In the episode, first shown in October, Mr. Minhaj critiques the United States’ longstanding relationship with Saudi Arabia after the murder of the dissident Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi.“Now would be a good time to reassess our relationship with Saudi Arabia,” Mr. Minhaj said, “and I mean that as a Muslim and an American.”After receiving a takedown request last month from the Saudi government’s Communications and Information Technology Commission, Netflix removed the episode from viewing in Saudi Arabia last week. The news was first reported by  The Financial Times.In a statement, Netflix defended its decision: “We strongly support artistic freedom worldwide and only removed this episode in Saudi Arabia after we had received a valid legal request — and to comply with local law.”The episode remains available to Netflix customers elsewhere in the world, and it can also be seen by viewers in Saudi Arabia through the show’s YouTube channel, according to The Financial Times. YouTube did not immediately respond on Tuesday to an email asking whether it had received a complaint from the Saudi government.The “Patriot Act” episode appears to be the only program that the Saudi government has asked Netflix to block there.Mr. Minhaj has not commented publicly on the removal of the episode. But in an interview published in The Atlantic last month, Mr. Minhaj spoke of the fear he felt after creating it.“There was a lot of discussion in my family about not doing it,” he said in the interview. “I’ve just come to personal and spiritual terms with what the repercussions are.”Article 6 of the Saudi anti-cyber crime law, which was cited by the Saudi commission in its request to Netflix, prohibits the “production, preparation, transmission or storage of material impinging on public order, religious values, public morals and privacy” on the internet. Journalism advocates call it a powerful and all-encompassing instrument for the Saudi government to censor virtually any speech online.The Committee to Protect Journalists, which rates Saudi Arabia the third most censored country in the world, has documented the growing crackdown on journalists since the appointment last year of Prince Mohammed, who was first promoted as an agent of modernization and reform.Under Prince Mohammed’s rule, “authorities have wielded state mechanisms ostensibly focused on terrorism to silence journalists,” according to a blog post published in September by the Committee to Protect Journalists.The Communications and Information Technology Commission did not immediately respond to a request for comment.It is not unheard of for Western news organizations to have critical reports censored in authoritarian countries. But that action is often taken by local partners, and sometimes without notice.In 2014, for example, a report about Pakistan’s relationship to Al Qaeda was deleted from thousands of print copies of the International New York Times in Pakistan — resulting in a blank spot on the front page — “without our knowledge or agreement,” a representative of The Times said at the time.An earlier version of this article misstated the name of an organization that has documented a crackdown on journalists in Saudi Arabia. It is the Committee to Protect Journalists, not the Committee to Project Journalists.



      By CHRIS STANFORD and 
    
ANNA SCHAVERIEN

JAN. 4, 2019

It’s a new year but the same news quiz, which is celebrating its first anniversary this week. Find out if you stayed up to date.

Last week, the question about the unprecedented trek by Colin O’Brady had the highest share of correct answers, with 85 percent. Only 44 percent knew which federal department has not been affected by the government shutdown.

The news quiz is published on Friday mornings. Click here for other weeks’ quizzes.
The 116th Congress features the most diverse group of representatives ever elected to the House, whose history spans more than 200 years.What is not one of the distinctions of the new House?First Green BeretFirst Korean-AmericanFirst Native American congresswomanFirst Palestinian-American congresswomanIn a speech on New Year's Day, one world leader said: “If the United States can show corresponding measures, the relationship between the two countries will, through many processes, accelerate for the better. But if the counterpart continues with its past habits, it won’t be good, but I hope they stop this.”Who was it?Bashar al-Assad of SyriaKim Jong-un of North KoreaXi Jinping of ChinaVladimir Putin of RussiaWhich idea did the departing White House chief of staff, John Kelly, say had been abandoned since “early on in the administration”? Appointing a special prosecutor to investigate Hillary Clinton Building a concrete wall between the U.S. and MexicoLabeling China a “currency manipulator” Replacing the Affordable Care Act Which Democrat became the party’s first major candidate to enter the 2020 presidential race?Cory BookerKirsten GillibrandKamala HarrisElizabeth WarrenLongstanding allies like Cuba, Venezuela and Nicaragua were not invited to the swearing-in ceremony this week for the president of which country —  a clear signal of its political shift to the right?ArgentinaBrazilColombiaPanamaNASA’s New Horizons spacecraft reached the most distant object ever visited by humankind, a small, icy world more than four billion miles away.What is the nickname of the object?AlbionPlanet NineSednaUltima Thule In another milestone of space exploration this week, a probe landed on the far side of the moon for the first time.Which country achieved the feat?ChinaIndiaJapanRussiaA long-delayed presidential vote last Sunday was marred by torrential rains, lost voter rolls and malfunctioning machines, and came during a raging Ebola epidemic.The landmark election was the first transfer of power through the ballot box since its country gained independence in 1960. Name the country.AngolaDemocratic Republic of CongoKenyaNigeriaNetflix blocked an episode of its show “Patriot Act With Hasan Minhaj” from streaming in a country whose government complained that the episode — which is critical of its leadership — violated its cybercrime laws.Which country was it?EgyptOmanSaudi ArabiaTurkeyDaryl Dragon, part of a musical act that reached the Top 10 seven times from 1975 to 1979, died on Wednesday at 76.What was the name of the act?The Bee GeesThe Captain and TennilleEarth, Wind &amp; FirePeaches &amp; HerbFrom a tennis match this week, which name completes this foursome?Frances Tiafoe, Belinda Bencic, Serena Williams, Roger FedererSimona HalepRafael NadalVenus Williams

Supported byWill fake news decide Indonesia’s election this week?By Ross TapsellMr. Tapsell is an Indonesia specialist at the Australian National University.Indonesia, the world’s third-largest democracy, will head to the ballot boxes on Wednesday for a largely unremarkable general election. The two presidential candidates — President Joko Widodo and Prabowo Subianto, a former army commander — also faced off five years ago. The gap between them on major policy issues has since narrowed, but the president’s lead in polls seems to have widened. Still, the election is noteworthy in one respect: the record deployment of negative campaigning, and sometimes outright disinformation, on both sides.The two candidates, though nominally quite different, hardly have distinguished themselves from the other on the economy, foreign policy or even religion. Perhaps that’s why their official campaign strategists, the officious operations they tacitly back and overzealous independent supporters together have produced a cocktail of negative ads, fake news and outright hoaxes to create buzz around their man.Indonesia’s leading investigative journalism magazine, Tempo, revealed late last year that both camps were relying on what the exposé called “shadow teams,” attacking each other using “fake news spread by proxies” — a form of “black campaigning that could not be carried out by candidates’ official teams.” A recent Reuters investigation uncovered groups of “fake-news peddlers” who, according to the article, appeared to want to exploit “ethnic or religious divides.” Hundreds of informal campaigners thought to be paid by politicians or their business acolytes — known locally as “buzzers” — create hashtags on Twitter and material for Facebook and Instagram ferrying nasty messages about their opponents, often using aliases or ghost accounts. Negative campaigning is nothing new in Indonesia, but there, as elsewhere, ever-popular digital platforms and messaging apps help spread the material faster. (More than 80 percent of internet users in Indonesia use Facebook and WhatsApp.)Mr. Prabowo and his Islamist allies have tried to portray Mr. Joko as un-Islamic. Mr. Joko’s lead shrank during the 2014 presidential campaign as material circulated stating (incorrectly) that he was Chinese, Christian and a communist. The message has taken root: In a national survey in December, one-fifth of respondents who had heard that Mr. Joko was born to a Christian parent now believed the news, and nearly one-quarter of respondents who had heard that he was Chinese believed that to be true. Conservative religious groups, many of which back Mr. Prabowo, have become more vociferous online in recent years. A network that calls itself the Muslim Cyber Army helped sway the race for governor in Jakarta in 2017, partly by spreading fake news about one candidate, an ally of Mr. Joko’s. Ahead of this week’s election, other groups have claimed — spuriously — that the president wanted to ban religious teaching in schools and abolish the call to prayer, among other things.Although Mr. Joko has had a comfortable lead in opinion polls throughout the campaign, his administration has pushed back, and hard, against disinformation targeting him. Its first response was to try to raise the public’s awareness about online hoaxes. But then its own tactics took a more problematic turn. Placing little trust in social media platforms to remove offending content, the government has threatened to ban Facebook and block WhatsApp in Indonesia. Mr. Joko has instructed security forces to clamp down on citizens who spread fake news. The police have made numerous arrests, including of important members of the Muslim Cyber Army, for sharing posts online that, according to the head of the police’s cybercrime directorate, were “either provocative or simply false.” Earlier this year, the musician and Prabowo supporter Ahmad Dhani was sentenced to 18 months in jail for a series of tweets from 2017, including one thought to refer to that losing candidate in the 2017 race for Jakarta governor (“anyone who supports the blasphemer is scum and deserves to be spat in the face”). Mr. Dhani was charged under the Electronic Information and Transactions Law of 2008, which penalizes defamation online. But the opposition claims that the law has been used for political ends. Mr. Dhani has since gotten in trouble again, under the same law, for saying that opponents to a #2019ChangeThePresident rally he attended last summer were “idiots.”I find few records of arrests of people charged with slandering opposition figures. That could be because government supporters do less bad mouthing; more likely, it says something about the selective enforcement of the law. (Mr. Joko is known to have close ties to the police.) The president has also gone on the counteroffensive online. One campaigner for Mr. Joko made this case for resorting to disinformation to me last month: “Michelle Obama said, ‘When they go low, we go high.’ But it didn’t work. Trump won. So here, when they go low, we go lower.” Pro-Joko buzzers likely are behind hashtags like #PrabowoJumatanDimana (Where is Prabowo during Friday prayers?): Mr. Prabowo comes from a multidenominational family and is known for not being especially devout. Another trending hashtag is #ManaKeluargamu (Where is your family?), a reference to the fact that Mr. Prabowo is separated from his wife and his only son lives overseas. And then there are the allegations that Mr. Prabowo’s campaign is somehow affiliated with ISIS in various ways.It is extremely difficult to identify which claim or lie comes from the campaigns themselves, buzzers or outsiders, but together these messages have created a dangerous pattern: A political opposition lagging in opinion polls spreads misleading content online about the president, and he deploys state institutions to crack down on them even as his campaigners and supporters put out misleading material of their own. As much as Indonesia’s politicians have been warning the people about disinformation, it is largely they and their teams who are producing fake news.One result is an election campaign that has been more snide than substantive and that, in the name of differentiating two candidates who aren’t distinguishable enough, harps on supposedly deep social and political divisions — “this great disconnect,” as one candidate for vice president put it — that may not really exist. Another effect of these dirty tactics is to undermine the credibility of the system itself. Mr. Prabowo’s team has already questioned the legitimacy of the election, citing problems with voter lists and other irregularities — it could be feeding a convenient line to fake-news peddlers. Meanwhile, the police arrested two people last week for claiming that the election’s results had already been predetermined by the election commission and that Mr. Joko will be said to have won 57 percent of the votes.Mr. Joko’s likely victory over Mr. Prabowo on Wednesday will come as a relief to many Indonesian liberals and minority groups. Yet they should be worried about the latest practices of a president once heralded as a democratic reformer. That Mr. Joko’s government has chosen to respond to disinformation with disinformation signals a dangerous backsliding for democracy in Indonesia.Ross Tapsell is a researcher and Indonesia specialist at the Australian National University’s College of Asia and the Pacific, in Canberra. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported byBy Nicole Perlroth and Katie BennerTwo Iranians were behind the ransomware attack that crippled Atlanta’s government for days this year, the Justice Department said in an indictment unsealed on Wednesday, detailing a sophisticated scheme of attacks on hospitals, government agencies and other organizations.The men, Faramarz Shahi Savandi and Mohammad Mehdi Shah Mansouri, chose targets with complex yet vulnerable systems — organizations that could afford to pay ransoms and needed to urgently restore their systems back online, prosecutors said.In the case of Atlanta, one of the most sustained and consequential cyberattacks ever launched against a major American city, the pair broke into the city’s computer systems and held their data hostage for about $51,000 worth of the cryptocurrency Bitcoin, prosecutors said.“They deliberately engaged in an extreme form of 21st-century digital blackmail, attacking and extorting vulnerable victims like hospitals and schools, victims they knew would be willing and able to pay,” Brian Benczkowski, the head of the criminal division of the Justice Department, said in a news conference on Wednesday.The Treasury Department also imposed sanctions on two other Iranians, accusing them of changing the Bitcoin obtained by the hackers into Iranian rial.Mr. Savandi and Mr. Mansouri, who are wanted by the F.B.I., created the malicious software SamSam Ransomware, prosecutors said, and began to gain access to their victims’ computers in January 2016. The software is well known to cybersecurity experts.Atlanta officials said at the time that they would not pay the ransom, even as the attack ground court, parking and employment systems to a halt. For days, police officers wrote reports by hand, warrants were not validated, applications for city jobs sat unprocessed and government workers were unable to access basic administrative systems.“Victims are encouraged not to pay the ransom,” said Amy Hess, a top F.B.I. cybercrime official. She added that there is no guarantee that the victims will get their data back.Mr. Savandi and Mr. Mansouri collected more than $6 million in extortion payments, law enforcement officials said. The cities and businesses targeted lost more than $30 million as they scrambled to fix computer systems and recovered data, according to court documents.Many of the victims were public agencies with missions that involve lifesaving and other critical functions. Among them were Allscripts Healthcare; Laboratory Corporation of America; the city of Newark; the University of Calgary; the Port of San Diego; the Colorado Department of Transportation; and hospitals and health care groups in Los Angeles, Kansas, Maryland and Nebraska.In the case of Mr. Savandi and Mr. Mansouri, the Justice Department indictment indicated that they belonged to the SamSam group, which is well known to cybersecurity researchers.The group was also known for meticulously encrypting its victims’ data, manually from file to file; changing file names to “I’m sorry”; demanding high ransom payments in Bitcoin; and giving victims only a week to pay before they made their data permanently inaccessible, according to major security firms like Symantec, the Crypsis Group and others.Cybersecurity researchers said they were surprised to learn that the SamSam group was based in Iran. Other than the group’s name — Samsam Kandi is the name of a tiny Iranian village — no indicators showed that the group was based in Iran.“They weren’t using any of the Iranian infrastructure or typical Iranian tools and, until now, ransomware was not a typical Iranian attack method,” said Allan Liska, an intelligence analyst at Recorded Future, a threat intelligence firm based in Boston.The defendants had used Bitcoin exchanges to launder their ransomware profits. People in countries with heavily sanctioned governments like North Korea and Iran are increasingly turning to cryptocurrency to bypass sanctions, Mr. Liska said.Though officials were careful to note that the suspects were not affiliated with the government of Iran, American officials and private-sector cybersecurity experts have been closely monitoring internet traffic out of Iran after President Trump’s decision to pull out of the deal over its nuclear program last May.Within 24 hours, monitors in the United States and Israel picked up a notable shift in Iranian state hacking activity, including renewed attacks on diplomats and foreign affairs offices of American allies, as well as employees at major telecommunication companies.

Supported byBy Alan Blinder, Richard Fausset and John EligonOPELOUSAS, La. — While the victims prayed for the soul of the arsonist who burned down their houses of worship, investigators rushed to assemble clues, worried the assailant would strike again.The detectives had noticed the same pickup truck in surveillance video footage near each of the three predominantly black churches that had been set ablaze and destroyed. They found the charred remains of a particular brand of gas can sold at a local Walmart.Then the pieces came together, and the authorities announced the arrest of a 21-year-old white man who is the son of a local sheriff’s deputy and an aficionado of a subgenre of heavy metal, called black metal, whose most extreme practitioners in Norway have engaged in church burning, vandalism and killing.In a Thursday morning news conference announcing the arrest of the man, Holden Matthews, the authorities said that they had not concluded their investigation and could not say whether racism had played a role.Though the motive was less than clear, the results brought a measure of peace for a rural Cajun community that had been on edge since late March, when the first of the fires occurred.Monica Harris, a member of the Greater Union Baptist Church, had been uneasy since April 2, when the 129-year-old sanctuary that had been at the center of her family for generations was destroyed. She was baptized and married there, and her parents, who died last year, are buried in the cemetery on the church’s grounds.“I was uneasy with the fact that somebody invaded their resting space,” Ms. Harris, 57, said on Thursday. “Now that they’ve caught someone, I feel more at ease that they’re able to rest now.”Gov. John Bel Edwards of Louisiana, speaking of the suspect, said at the news conference that he could not know “what was in his heart.” But he added that it “cannot be justified or rationalized. These were evil acts.”Mr. Matthews, who did not appear to have a lawyer on Thursday and had no known history of violence or arrests, was charged with three counts of simple arson of a church building. The authorities said the blazes, which occurred between March 26 and April 4, were intentionally set and related. Before Greater Union, there was St. Mary Baptist Church in Port Barre. The last fire was at Mount Pleasant Baptist in Opelousas, the St. Landry Parish seat.[‘They didn’t burn down our spirit’: Black churches in Louisiana were worried but defiant after the fires.]A fourth fire, a small blaze that officials said was “intentionally set,” was reported on March 31 at a predominantly white church in Caddo Parish, about a three-hour drive north. State officials said Thursday they did not believe it was related to the attacks in St. Landry Parish.The arrest of Mr. Matthews came after days of worrying about the community’s remaining churches, and about the fabric of a proud, working-class stretch of Acadiana just north of Lafayette, where the global calling cards are not extreme mutations of heavy metal, but the joyous chug of zydeco or the high lonesome wail of Cajun fiddles.While no one would characterize the area as a racial utopia, both black and white residents describe it as neighborly. And everyone agrees that churches should be considered inviolable and sacred.But everyone also knows the story of the South. Since the 1950s, black churches across the region have been the targets of racist attacks, from arson and bombing to armed assault.The sense of urgency was palpable as the mystery persisted. The F.B.I. and the federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives were involved in the investigation, as well as the Louisiana and Florida state fire marshals, the cybercrime unit of the Louisiana attorney general’s office, and the state and local police.Social media posts offered a glimpse of the man they arrested.Facebook photos of Mr. Matthews show a young man with long hair. In one picture, he is wearing a black sleeveless T-shirt and holding a black electric guitar. He described himself as the lead singer of a black metal band called Vodka Vultures, though there was little online evidence of the band’s activity. Still, he wrote several posts that showed his familiarity with the genre.He wrote favorably of the recent movie “Lords of Chaos,” a dramatized version of the black metal scene, and apparently referenced Varg Vikernes, perhaps the most notorious figure in the black metal movement, who was found guilty in Norway of killing a heavy metal guitarist and burning three churches.The path to Mr. Matthews was laid out in an affidavit, with the big break coming Tuesday when an A.T.F. team found a piece of what appeared to be a two-gallon red gas can at Mount Pleasant Baptist Church.The authorities realized that the same can was for sale at a local Walmart. On Wednesday, an investigator working for the retailer shared with them that a similar can had been purchased late on March 25 — less than three hours before the first church fire — along with a package of shop towels and a lighter, all paid for with a debit card that the authorities said was owned by Mr. Matthews.Investigators learned, too, that Mr. Matthews’s father, Roy Matthews, was a longtime deputy in the St. Landry Parish sheriff’s office and the owner of a beige 2002 Ford pickup that appeared to match the truck that “consistently” appeared “around the time of each fire,” the affidavit states.Sheriff Bobby Guidroz of St. Landry Parish said that he had summoned Mr. Matthews’s father on Wednesday to tell him that his son was considered a suspect in the fires, which all took place in the middle of the night and did not injure anyone.“He was shocked and hurt, as any father would be,” Mr. Guidroz said of the older Mr. Matthews, whom he described as “a great deputy” and one of his best friends. “He was in terrible shape.”At the home where Mr. Matthews lived, a woman declined to comment on Thursday. A horse trailer was parked outside the home, set down a gravel driveway and behind a pond. Farmland filled the distance behind the house, which had few windows.It was a moment that stood in striking contrast to the news conference, which at times took on the flavor of a tent revival. There was much spirit-infused talk about resilience in the face of hatred — a resilience stronger, and more flame-retardant, than any building.“I want to say to the individuals who engage in these types of crimes, you have caused pain, and you have caused hurt,” said Dana Nichols, the special agent in charge of the New Orleans office of the A.T.F. “But know this: that you cannot destroy our faith.”A few pastors called out, “Amen,” and Ms. Nichols went on.“We can have church anywhere,” said Ms. Nichols, who was raised in the Baptist church in Indiana. “We can have church in a parking lot. We can have church in a field, and as many of us know, when we’re doing our building fund, we can have church under a tent. We can have church on a porch. And know this: We’ll have church in the very parking lot where the building you destroyed will stand as a remembrance to us that God is still with us.”Alan Blinder reported from Opelousas, Richard Fausset from Atlanta and John Eligon from Kansas City, Mo. Leslie Turk contributed reporting from Lafayette, La. Kitty Bennett contributed research.

Supported byBy Hannah BeechBANGKOK — Pauline Ngarmpring is running for prime minister of Thailand, one of around 70 candidates for the job. She will not win.One reason is that she was born a he.But a more fundamental explanation is that Thailand’s elections, scheduled for Sunday, were circumscribed even before campaigning began. For nearly five years since a military coup, Thailand has been ruled by a junta that has suppressed dissent, targeted political parties and, now, orchestrated an election that will give voters only partial franchise.That hasn’t stopped around 80 parties from running. Their aims are eclectic. Ms. Pauline’s party wants to represent not only transgender individuals like herself, but any Thai whose human rights have been compromised.“People think of Thailand as a party place, so happy and nice for holiday, but we have a lot of problems with human rights that need to be solved with better government,” Ms. Pauline said in an interview.Another major party, Bhumjaithai, which came in third in the last elections, has tied the nation’s future to the legal cultivation of marijuana. Its leader, Anutin Charnvirakul, says that Thailand’s soil is perfect for growing cannabis and that small-scale farming could bring each household an extra $13,000 a year — if people don’t hoard too much for their own recreational use.There is a political party for defenders of Buddhism, and another with 15 candidates who all legally changed their names to those of the Shinawatra siblings, two popular former prime ministers whose governments were unseated by military coups.Yet these diverse platforms and colorful candidates camouflage a darker truth: After years of delay by the junta, Thailand may at last be going through the rituals of democracy, but the elections are taking place in a much-diminished political landscape.“Thailand is moving into a custodial democracy under long-term military supervision,” said Thitinan Pongsudhirak, a political scientist at Chulalongkorn University in Bangkok. “Anti-junta forces are likely to win the vote in the lower house, but because the Constitution is so stacked in the military’s favor, a junta-led coalition government is likely.”Even pro-military Thais agree that Pheu Thai, a populist party affiliated with the Shinawatra family, will be the top vote-getter on Sunday, as were its sister parties in every previous election this century. But the junta’s Constitution ensures that the Senate is entirely appointed, and the prime minister does not need to be a sitting member of Parliament.Given the constitutional limits, it is improbable that Pheu Thai will be able to form a government.In addition, several other parties and their executives have court cases hanging over them that, after the election, could result in the dissolution of parties or jail time for their leaders.“Nothing about this upcoming election is free and fair,” said Thanathorn Juangroongruangkit, the leader of the Future Forward Party, a new youth-focused party that has enjoyed a groundswell of online support in a country with some of the most active users of social media in the world.In recent elections, only about one-third of Thais between the ages of 18 and 25 voted. But social media campaigns have energized the demographic, and more than 10 percent of the electorate is young.Mr. Thanathorn, who has enjoyed strong crowd support during campaign stops, is facing computer crimes charges over a Facebook Live video in which, prosecutors say, he spread fake news. Human rights groups say the charges, which also have been made against Future Forward’s deputy leader and could involve prison time, have been trumped up in order to kneecap the party.A decision in Mr. Thanathorn’s case could be made in the coming week.Thailand has had a fractious relationship with democracy since absolute monarchy was outlawed nearly nine decades ago. The nation’s generals have staged more than a dozen successful coups, and the country has churned through 20 constitutions. The average prime minister’s tenure is less than three years.For years, the nation has been bifurcated between elite urbanites, and debt-ridden farmers and factory workers, who have seen Thailand’s wealth gap grow under junta rule. A survey by Credit Suisse found that Thailand is the most unequal society on earth, beating out Russia and India, with 1 percent of the population controlling more than 65 percent of the wealth.“In the past in Thailand, it has always been the rich who use their capital to take the profits from poor farmers, who accumulate debt to survive,” said Mr. Anutin of the Bhumjaithai Party, which is campaigning on agricultural reform, including cannabis production. “This cannot continue.”An earlier incarnation of Pheu Thai was one of the first parties to heavily court the nation’s rice growers and working class, offering health care subsidies and agricultural incentives. The result was landslides in every election since 2001, when Thaksin Shinawatra, a billionaire telecoms entrepreneur from the north, swept to victory and discomfited the establishment in Bangkok.Mr. Thaksin was ousted in a coup in 2006 and has since been convicted in absentia of corruption-linked crimes, as has his sister, Yingluck Shinawatra, another former prime minister, whose government was toppled in the 2014 coup. Both remain popular, even from self-imposed exile.Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha, the head of the National Council for Peace and Order, as the junta is known, has been nominated to stay in his current job by a military-affiliated political party.Mr. Prayuth is openly distrustful of some of the trappings of democracy. He has threatened, perhaps jokingly, to shoot journalists whose coverage he dislikes. Under junta rule, dissidents have been sent to detention camps for attitude adjustment. Cybercrime and sedition legislation has been used to target thousands of people who have spoken out against the junta and its limits on freedom of assembly and speech.In the weeks before the election, Mr. Prayuth, who writes his own songs and likes to perform them, has tried to show off a gentler mien. His party has released gauzy photos of the prime minister on social media, one with his hands cupping his smiling face, accompanied by a sentiment attributed to Mr. Prayuth: “Sometimes I want to look handsome.”Even if Pheu Thai and other Shinawatra-linked parties mimic history and do well in Sunday’s election — one such party was dissolved this month by the Constitutional Court, in a controversy that involved the Thai king’s sister’s brief candidacy for prime minister — the bloc of 250 senators appointed by the military is likely to jettison their chances of leading the country.What may follow, instead, is a weak, fractious coalition. The Democrat Party, a long-established force that gave tacit support to the last coup, is angling for a major role in any coalition. It is likely to be among the top vote-getters on Sunday, winning support in its traditional urban and southern power bases.But waiting in the wings, and even on the ballots, is the military. If anti-junta forces coalesce again, no one is discounting another putsch.“Every time there’s a coup d’état, the country falls behind,” Mr. Thanathorn said. “This vicious cycle must be stopped.”Muktita Suhartono contributed reporting.

Supported byBy Paulette PerhachA stunning statistic is reverberating in cybersecurity: An estimated 3.5 million cybersecurity jobs will be available but unfilled by 2021, according to predictions from Cybersecurity Ventures and other experts.“It’s scary. Our power grid, our cars, our everyday devices — basically everything is online and able to be attacked,” said Georgia Weidman, author of “Penetration Testing: A Hands-On Introduction to Hacking.” Ms. Weidman is the founder of two cybersecurity companies, Bulb Security, where she is chief executive, and Shevirah, where she is chief technology officer. Shevirah specializes in security for mobile devices.“It would certainly cause mass destruction if our power grid went down or our water pumps started going haywire or our dams decided to open all their sluices,” she said. “That’s actually something that could happen.”According to a report released this year by the Identity Theft Resource Center, the number of data breaches tracked in the United States in 2017 hit a high of more than 1,500, up almost 45 percent over 2016. In one incident this year, the data of 29 million Facebook users was stolen.In response to the sheer number of new digital gates that might be left open, employers and educators have had to become more creative in finding people to guard them.They need penetration testers to simulate attacks to find and fix vulnerabilities that could be exploited by a real attacker.They need malware analysts to find out what malicious programs do so they can protect from the attacks.They need security researchers to discover new vulnerabilities in applications and other products — before the thieves do — so they can be fixed. They need security architects to make sure all the best practices are being followed.According to the chief economist for LinkedIn, Guy Berger, there was a shortage as of September of 11,000 people with cybersecurity skills in the San Francisco Bay Area, 5,000 in New York and almost 4,000 in Seattle, the areas with the largest concentration of need. LinkedIn regularly issues work-force reports based on its analysis of jobs data in the United States.Some major corporations have openly taken to hiring hackers to help protect them. An extreme example is Kevin Mitnick, who hacked into corporations, landed on the F.B.I. Most Wanted Fugitives list, went to jail for five years, but is now a security consultant to Fortune 500 companies and governments. As he says on his website about hackers, “It takes one to know one.”Many companies are also putting less emphasis on the need for a college degree to qualify for a cybersecurity job, Ms. Weidman said. With an undergraduate degree in mathematics from Mary Baldwin College in Staunton, Va., and a master’s in computer science from James Madison University in Harrisonburg, Va., Ms. Weidman said she had seen how much hands-on experience really mattered in the cyberfield. That insight came early when she participated in the National Collegiate Cyber Defense Competition as a student.The competition, which began in 2005, is held at colleges across the country and designed to test student teams’ abilities to detect and respond to outside threats and to protect services such as mail servers and web servers. The sponsors include high-tech companies like the defense contractor Raytheon and IBM, but also retailers like Walmart and transportation companies like Uber.Recalling the difference between theoretical learning in college and hands-on experience, Ms. Weidman said she could do a lot of math about computer networking, “but could I actually manage a network at a company? Absolutely not.”The people who were in community colleges would “wipe the floor with those of us at universities, because community colleges really were focused on how to do these things,” she said. “I think that people at the university level are starting to realize that we need more hands-on skills in cybersecurity, as well as just the theory.”With that in mind, colleges and universities are changing their curriculums. Ms. Weidman is working with the Tulane School of Professional Advancement in New Orleans to build an online class for its Applied Computing Systems &amp; Technology degree program.At New York University, the Center for Cybersecurity has been operating for 20 years and graduates about 50 students annually. But this year, it created an online master’s program to help make the training more affordable in hopes of attracting more people to the field.Students in cybersecurity get a 75 percent discount, so the master’s degree costs about $15,000, compared with about $60,000 for the traditional on-campus program. The online program enrolled 125 students in September and hopes to have 1,000 students annually within three or four years.“Nationally, we graduate twice the number of psychology majors as opposed to engineers,” said Nasir Memon, professor and associate dean for online learning at the N.Y.U. Tandon School of Engineering. “We graduate as many park rangers as compared to computer scientists.”Students frequently graduate in fields that lack opportunity for long-term careers, he said. If they want to switch to computer science in traditional programs, they can face daunting barriers, like multiple semesters of catch-up courses and a requirement to take the Graduate Record Examination.“So one of the things we did is start a bridge program, where we say, we don’t care what you did in your undergrad; you could have done physics, anthropology, anything, just come on in,” Professor Memon said.The welcome the school extends is in the form of an intense, four-month online program of computer science courses with a price of $1,500. If students pass, they are eligible for the full program.This year, 230 students were accepted into the bridge program, 22 percent of them women. That number compares with 11 percent of women in the cybersecurity force over all, according to a 2017 report by the Center for Cyber Safety and Education and the Executive Women’s Forum on Information Security, Risk Management &amp; Privacy.Shamla Naidoo, global chief information security officer for IBM, has had success reaching out to mothers returning to work, as well as to veterans, to find potential cybersecurity workers.“We’ve been talking about this for the last few years,” Ms. Naidoo said. “The first year, I spent a lot of time worrying about it. After that I thought, there’s no point in worrying about it, I’m going to have to go act, and I’m going to have to act in a nontraditional way. Posting a job description and hoping people are going to show up and apply to the job wasn’t working because the people just didn’t exist. So rather than trying to hire the skills and knowing they’re not as easily available, let’s create the skills internally.”She created a system open to hiring people who have little or no experience, and, in many cases, even skills, in cybersecurity, with the understanding that they will come in, join a more experienced team and learn on the job. They are formed into teams of five to seven people solving one problem at a time, with the new employees teaming with more experienced security experts to watch.Many skills from other industries are transferable to the cybersecurity field. Cybersecurity experts need to be able to communicate policies to, as Ms. Naidoo put it, “increase the cybersecurity I.Q.” of an entire organization. For example, people from a finance background might be able to educate their co-workers in accounting about cyberrisk.She’s grown her team by about 25 percent over the last year with developers, consultants and research professionals. She said being more flexible in hiring, and hiring outside of the normal pipeline, had evened out some of the inequities in the field — like a relative dearth of minorities and women.“To solve the skills shortage, we have to hire people who have the right aptitude, who have the right attitude, people who are curious, are willing to learn,” Ms. Naidoo said. “Outside of that, I have very few other criteria. I’m opening the aperture for where we look. I’m trying to hire in nontraditional places, nontraditional groups of people, and so I don’t expect them to have the skills or the experience that we need. I will hire people wherever I can find them.”Michael Doran, 38, was a police officer in St. Louis for almost 10 years before going into cybersecurity.“I quickly found out a lot of the older detectives were not doing a lot of the computer crimes,” he said. “I saw my opening there to make a niche for myself.”After learning about the field of digital forensics, he took free, online courses through the National White Collar Crime Center. He then decided to get another bachelor’s degree and a master’s degree online in computer forensics and intelligence. He studied at Utica College from home while working full time.He went to the cybercrimes unit as a forensic digital examiner within the St. Louis police department’s cybercrime unit. But it didn’t take long for the private industry to scoop him up.“It was an offer I couldn’t refuse,” he said, speaking of more than doubling his salary to near six figures. “I took that chance, and I haven’t looked back since.”He’s now a senior security consultant within the enterprise incident management team for Optiv, a cybersecurity company, where he performs digital forensics and interacts with clients.More C-suite executives are filling their own skills gaps when it comes to cybersecurity, said Eric Rosenbach, co-director of the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard Kennedy School and former chief of staff at the Defense Department.He runs an online class for working, senior-level executives “who are only now seeing how seriously they need to take it because they’ve seen so many other C.E.O.s get fired for major breaches,” said Mr. Rosenbach.Offered at least six times a year, the classes educate 300 to 400 people each term. He says executives need to know how to minimize the legal, financial and public relations risks before an attack occurs.Beyond the particular needs of firms in the cybersecurity arena, there is also a skills gap in the larger population that needs to be addressed, Mr. Rosenbach said.“I’m surprised, even at Harvard, how few of the students here know very basic stuff about cyberhygiene, two-factor authentication, things like that, that people should be doing to protect themselves,” he said.“One thing I don’t think people appreciate as much is that cyber is about human issues, it’s about training people not to do dumb things like click on spear-phishing links, holding people accountable. There’s a lot of human leadership involved in trying to improve cybersecurity.”

Supported byBy Matthew RosenbergWASHINGTON — Aleksej Gubarev is a Russian technology entrepreneur who runs companies in Europe and the United States that provide cut-rate internet service. But he is best known for his appearance in 2016 in a dossier that purported to detail Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election — and the Trump campaign’s complicity.Mr. Gubarev’s companies, the dossier claimed, used “botnets and porn traffic to transmit viruses, plant bugs, steal data and conduct ‘altering operations’ against the Democratic Party leadership.”On Thursday, new evidence emerged that indicated that internet service providers owned by Mr. Gubarev appear to have been used to do just that: A report by a former F.B.I. cyberexpert unsealed in a federal court in Miami found evidence that suggests Russian agents used networks operated by Mr. Gubarev to start their hacking operation during the 2016 presidential campaign.[Read the report here.]His networks also appear to have been regularly used by cybercriminals and Russian agents to conduct other attacks, such as an assault on Ukraine’s power grid in 2015, the report found.Yet the report stops short of directly linking Mr. Gubarev or his executives to the hacking, as asserted in the dossier. As Anthony Ferrante, the report’s lead author and a former F.B.I. agent, noted in a deposition: “I have no evidence of them actually sitting behind a keyboard.”Mr. Gubarev has insisted that neither he nor his businesses knowingly took part in the Russian hacking. He backed up his denials by filing a defamation lawsuit against BuzzFeed, the first news organization to publish the dossier, which became public in January 2017. The report unsealed Thursday was commissioned by BuzzFeed to fend off Mr. Gubarev’s suit, which was dismissed in December when the court found BuzzFeed’s decision to publish protected under the law.Evan Fray-Witzer, a lawyer for Mr. Gubarev, said that hackers using a client’s servers was hardly unique for a web-hosting company, or any tech company. Mr. Gubarev should not be held responsible for the misuse of his network by others that he neither approved nor knew about, Mr. Fray-Witzer said.“You could say the same thing about Google’s infrastructure and Amazon’s infrastructure — and no one is accusing them of hacking anyone just because hackers used their infrastructure,” he said.The report was released after months of legal wrangling by Mr. Gubarev’s lawyers, who strenuously fought to keep it under wraps, arguing that it was one-sided and would unfairly tar their client. The New York Times, acting independently of BuzzFeed and Mr. Gubarev, asked the court in October to unseal all of the evidence in the case.For all of its details of Russia’s hacking, the report is unlikely to settle the questions that linger around the dossier more than two years after it became public. But for those who believe the president’s loyalties are with Moscow, the report’s suggestions of a link between Mr. Gubarev and Russian hacking is likely to spur new demands for renewed investigations, even as Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, appears to be wrapping up his investigation.The dossier is made up of a series of reports compiled in the summer and fall of 2016 by Christopher Steele, a former British spy who runs a firm that conducts investigations for businesses and other clients. The work was done at the behest of President Trump’s political rivals, a fact that Mr. Trump and his allies have seized on in an effort to undermine the Russia inquiry by falsely claiming that it began because of the dossier.Parts of the dossier have proved prescient. Its main assertion — that the Russian government was working to get Mr. Trump elected — was hardly an established fact when it was first laid out by Mr. Steele in June 2016. But it has since been backed up by the United States’ own intelligence agencies — and Mr. Mueller’s investigation. The dossier’s talk of Russian efforts to cultivate some people in Mr. Trump’s orbit was similarly unknown when first detailed in one of Mr. Steele’s reports, but it has proved broadly accurate as well.Other parts of the dossier remain unsubstantiated, or nearly impossible to verify, such as its most salacious charge: that the Russians have a video of Mr. Trump cavorting with prostitutes in a Moscow hotel in 2013. At least one accusation — that Michael D. Cohen, Mr. Trump’s former personal lawyer and fixer, met in 2016 with Russian officials in Prague — now looks false after Mr. Cohen, who has turned sharply against Mr. Trump, denied last month during congressional testimony ever visiting Prague.The report commissioned by BuzzFeed to investigate the dossier did not set out to prove any of those accusations. It was done by FTI Consulting, a Washington-based firm, and focused solely on the accusations against Mr. Gubarev. It relied largely on analyzing internet traffic and other clues, and on digging through public records to glean insight into Mr. Gubarev’s holding company, XBT, and its many affiliates, including Webzilla. Both XBT and Webzilla were named in the dossier as being used for the hacking.While the report found no direct evidence of a direct link to the Russian hackers, it did conclude that Mr. Gubarev’s web-hosting services are rife with lawlessness. His clients routinely pirate copyrighted material and spread malware, the report found, and his executives appear unconcerned with stopping them or helping authorities track them down.Mr. Gubarev’s “companies have provided gateways to the internet for cybercriminals and Russian state-sponsored actors to launch and control large scale malware campaigns over the past decade,” the report concluded. “Gubarev and other XBT executives do not appear to actively prevent cybercriminals from using their infrastructure.”The evidence cited by the report included the use of I.P. addresses — the numbered codes that differentiate individual internet connections — run by an XBT subsidiary, Root S.A., by Russian hackers from two groups tied to the country’s intelligence services, Fancy Bear and Cozy Bear. The investigators hired by BuzzFeed also found that at least one of the fake links used to trick John D. Podesta, the chairman of Hillary Clinton’s 2016 presidential campaign, into giving up his email password to hackers was traced back to an I.P. address run by Root S.A.The report also detailed evidence that it said suggested Mr. Gubarev’s companies were used in other cybercrimes traced to Russian hackers. One was a sophisticated Russian cyberfraud operation known as the Methbot scheme. It used bots — computer programs that pretend to be people — to steal hundreds of millions of dollars.During the three months the scheme was running in 2016, roughly three-quarters of the internet traffic flowing through two web-hosting companies owned by Mr. Gubarev — Servers.com and WZ Communications — was dedicated to the scheme, the report said.Mr. Fray-Witzer, the lawyer, said Mr. Gubarev’s companies did not make a habit of prying into the web traffic of its clients, and could not have known what its servers were being used for. But, he added, Servers.com and WZ Communications shut off internet access for those behind the Methbot scheme as soon as they found out about it, and saved all of the hard drives for any investigators who wanted to examine them — none have.Asked about the numerous lawsuits that have claimed that Mr. Gubarev’s companies were used to trade in copyrighted material, Mr. Fray-Witzer offered the same argument: Web-hosting companies are not typically held responsible for the traffic that flows through their servers, and Mr. Gubarev should not be held to a different standard.In any case, Mr. Fray-Witzer said, the dossier accused Mr. Gubarev “directly of having been involved in the hacking of the D.N.C.,” not of running networks used by thieves and criminals.“Because they couldn’t prove the allegations that they actually made about our client,” he continued, “they pivoted to say, ‘Well, your infrastructure was used from time to time to do bad things.’”Follow Matthew Rosenberg on Twitter: @AllMattNYT.Gabriel J.X. Dance contributed reporting from New York.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.

Supported byBy Ali WinstonThe police commander who led the effort to arrest Harvey Weinstein has been ousted from his longtime position as the head of the Police Department’s special victims division in a major shake-up that comes as the department’s handling of sex crimes is facing increased scrutiny and criticism.The chief of detectives announced the change in leadership on Friday afternoon.The division’s reputation was tarnished when it came to light in court that one of its detectives made serious errors that compromised the sexual-assault investigation of Mr. Weinstein, the movie producer. In addition, a city watchdog agency found in March that the unit had far too few detectives to handle the city’s sexual assault cases.The decision to transfer the division’s commander, Deputy Chief Michael Osgood, to a new post as head of patrol operations in Staten Island was months in the making. The police commissioner, James P. O’Neill, promised a “top-to-bottom scrub” of the unit back in April after a report by the city’s Department of Investigation found the special victims division was severely understaffed.Chief Osgood, a highly respected manager within the department, had won praise from advocates in his eight years at the helm of the division. But he had also pushed his superiors hard for more resources, and his warnings over the last four years about the state of the city’s sex crimes unit were made public in the investigation department’s report.The report included memos from Chief Osgood pleading with senior police officials for more detectives and pointing out there was a large backlog of 1,400 unsolved crimes for which there is genetic evidence. “They are sitting dormant,” he wrote. “The backlog continues to increase.”According to the report, the division had so few staff by 2011 that the senior police officials instructed the unit to “simply not investigate all misdemeanor sexual assaults.” From 2009 to 2017, detectives investigating adult sex crimes saw their caseloads rise by 65 percent, but staffing levels remained unchanged, at about 74.Since the report was issued, the Police Department has steadily added detectives to the division. The number of investigators handling adult reports of sexual assault is up to 118, though it is still 30 short of what the report recommended.At a news conference, the chief of detectives, Dermot F. Shea, denied the transfer of Chief Osgood had something to do with his requests for additional manpower. “Mike Osgood should be commended — he raised the bar significantly,” Chief Shea said. “This is not a punishment.”Chief Shea said he was appointing Deputy Chief Judith Harrison to take over the division. She will be the first woman and the first black person to hold that position. “We have a new set of eyes and a fresh perspective,” Chief Shea said.Chief Shea also said the division will be split into two commands, one dealing with adult sexual abuse and a second investigating child abuse. He said he was removing hate crimes from the division’s portfolio, moving the Hate Crimes Task Force, which has been in the spotlight in recent weeks following a surge in anti-Semitic incidents, under the Special Investigations Division, which also houses the cybercrime and major crime units, he said.Chief Harrison said, “In every assignment I’ve had, I’ve tried to make sure to place the victim first.” She said she had yet to speak to Chief Osgood, who has run the division since 2010.Councilmember Donovan Richards, the chair of the public safety committee, said he had “mixed feelings” about the shake-up. He called Chief Osgood’s removal “bittersweet” and commended him for bringing greater attention to sexual assault victims years before the rise of the #MeToo movement. Still, he said, Chief Harrison “is a stellar public servant, and is someone that is largely admired in the N.Y.P.D.”Other city lawmakers said it appeared Chief Osgood had been ousted in retaliation for his role in the investigation department’s report. “I think it was incredibly courageous of Chief Osgood to speak up about the lack of resources at the Special Victims Division and what impact that was having on victims of sexual violence, and he paid the price,” said Councilmember Helen Rosenthal, who chairs the committee on women.Mary Haviland, the executive director of the New York City Alliance Against Sexual Assault, said she was “deeply disturbed” at the news of the reorganization. She said Chief Osgood had built a good relationship with advocates for sex-crime victims and had overhauled training for investigators to improve their interview techniques.“I feel that they’re transferring out an enormous amount of experience that’s been gathered the last eight years, and I think it’s very unfortunate,” Ms. Haviland said. “It’s hard for me to understand why you would want to transfer out someone like that who’s performed that way in that job.”Ashley Southall contributed reporting.

Supported byBy Hannah Beech and Muktita SuhartonoBANGKOK — A military-linked party took an unexpected lead in elections in Thailand on Sunday, most likely cementing the army’s status as the country’s dominant political force.With more than 90 percent of the ballots counted, Palang Pracharat, the military’s proxy party, had 7.5 million votes, according to a preliminary count by the Election Commission.Thailand’s military has orchestrated more than a dozen successful coups, the latest in 2014, and has ruled the country through a junta since then.Pheu Thai, the populist party that had been expected to finish first according to most polls, was in second place with seven million votes, the Election Commission reported.Pheu Thai is the latest incarnation of a populist force that was toppled in the last two coups. The party is a political vehicle of Thaksin Shinawatra, a polarizing former prime minister whose aligned parties have won every election since 2001.Sunday’s vote count, however, which was for the lower house of Parliament, appeared to end Mr. Thaksin’s winning streak.But even if Pheu Thai had won the most votes of any party, it would have faced significant obstacles to forming a new government.A Constitution drafted by the junta ensures that the military appoints all 250 members of the Senate, meaning that army-linked forces were positioned to control a majority of Parliament, unless the opposition won the lower house by a landslide.Late on Sunday night, the Election Commission announced that it would release further results on Monday morning, leaving the counting unfinished. Another announcement delayed the time to the early afternoon.Voter turnout, at nearly 66 percent, was lower than the expected 80 percent. Nearly 6 percent of ballots were invalidated, the Election Commission reported, raising concerns about the integrity of the vote.“This election is irregular,” said Phumtham Wechayachai, Pheu Thai’s secretary general.Nuttaa Mahattana, a democracy activist who is facing four sedition charges, said that the reports of ballot irregularities paled in comparison to the overall imbalance built into the Thai political system by the military-backed Constitution.“Cheating in the election started when they drafted the Constitution,” Ms. Nuttaa said.The military’s proxy party had campaigned on stability and on defending Thailand’s monarchy. It nominated Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha, the leader of the junta that orchestrated the 2014 coup, to continue in his post.“The military, especially since General Prayuth came to power, has penetrated every corner of Thai society and politics,” said Surat Horachaikul, a political-science professor at Chulalongkorn University in Bangkok. “It will not easily recede from politics.”Openly dismissive of democratic traditions, Mr. Prayuth has repeatedly delayed elections and overseen a diminution of political freedoms. Activists have been jailed or sent to so-called attitude adjustment camps. Cybercrime and sedition prosecutions have increased. Students who dared make the three-finger salute from the “Hunger Games” films were arrested.Even before a single vote was cast, electoral rules blunted the power of certain political blocs. The threat of dissolution or jail time for leaders hangs over several anti-junta parties, including Pheu Thai, as well as Future Forward, a youth-inspired party that was contesting its first elections and surged to third place in the partial counting.Thailand’s complicated system of apportioning seats from votes means that Pheu Thai could still win around the same number of seats in the 500-seat lower house as Palang Pracharat, but with the Senate firmly in the military’s hand, its power as an opposition party will be diminished.Uttama Savanayana, the leader of Palang Pracharat, said in a news conference that Mr. Prayuth had already called to commend him on the party’s performance.The official election results will be released by early May. With the unexpectedly strong performance by the military, it appears that the tense status quo will continue in Thailand, with the military-backed government in control and voters seeking change frustrated.On social media on Sunday night, the hashtag #prayforthailand was trending high.Ever since Mr. Thaksin, a former telecommunications billionaire from northern Thailand, swept to power in 2001, buoyed by support from the country’s rice-growing heartland, the nation has been split between an establishment elite and a populist groundswell. By some accounts, Thailand is the most unequal society on earth, and its wealth gap has only widened during five years of junta rule.“Pheu Thai Party is always on the people’s side,” said Nongnuch Waree, who voted for the Thaksin-associated party on Sunday. “Their policies touch the people of all classes, especially the lower class.”In election after election, the largest bloc of voters has chosen parties aligned with Mr. Thaksin, appreciative of his parties’ health care and rice subsidies. Just as predictably, the military has launched coups, one against him and one against the government of his sister, Yingluck Shinawatra. Security forces crushed protests by loyalists to Mr. Thaksin, killing dozens.On Saturday evening, hours before polling stations opened, the palace released an unscheduled statement from King Maha Vajiralongkorn Bodindradebayavarangkun, who has stressed that the monarchy is “above politics.” The palace statement urged voters to “support good people to rule the country and prevent bad people from gaining power and causing trouble and disorder.”“His Majesty is concerned about the stability of the nation, the feelings and happiness of the people,” the communiqué added.Last month, King Vajiranlongkorn quashed the hopes of his elder sister, Ubolratana Rajakanya Sirivadhana Varnavadi, who had been nominated by another Thaksin-aligned party to serve as its candidate for prime minister. Hours after her candidacy was announced by the Thai Raksa Chart Party, the king issued a royal command saying it was “inappropriate,” and her political foray ended.The Constitutional Court ruled this month that Ms. Ubolratana’s candidacy was a “hostile action,” and Thai Raksa Chart was dissolved.On Friday, Ms. Ubolratana was pictured on social media at a Hong Kong wedding celebration of Mr. Thaksin’s daughter. In a highly unusual physical display for Thais, she was shown in one photo hugging Mr. Thaksin, who has been in overseas exile since a corruption-linked conviction.Nearly 15 percent of Sunday’s electorate was composed of new voters, aged 18 to 25. Thanathorn Juangroongruangkit, the leader of Future Forward, tried to carve a new path between the political forces that have dominated — and divided — Thai politics for nearly two decades.Mr. Thanathorn, the 40-year-old scion of an auto parts magnate family, ran a campaign that relied as much on an online presence as a physical one.“It’s time for Thailand to be ruled by new faces,” said Napakan Sangdang, a 21-year-old accounting graduate from a vocational school, as she emerged from voting in Bangkok. “I don’t know if he is really good, but we are giving him the chance to try.”Mr. Thanathorn, who could be jailed if a computer crimes case against him proceeds, perhaps in the coming week, said that neither the election nor the entire political system was free or fair. Human rights groups consider the charges against him politically motivated.The junta leaders, Mr. Thanathorn said, “wrote the Constitution, regulated the elections and are the players within their own game.”But, he added, Future Forward “is willing to play by their game.”Future Forward’s strong showing came as support withered for the Democrat Party, Thailand’s oldest party and an establishment mainstay in Bangkok. During campaigning, the party had hinted that it could lead a coalition. In Sunday’s partial counting, however, the Democrats were in fourth place.Abhisit Vejjajiva, the party leader, resigned on Sunday night, acknowledging that his party had been torn by internal infighting and had lost votes to newer political parties.For some in Thailand, the elections, however flawed, appeared to be a tool for restoring respectability to a country that considers itself one of Asia’s oldest democracies.“This election is important not only for our country but for our relationship with the U.S. and China,” said Natapong Kasemsant, a bank executive in Bangkok, who was voting at a polling station under the shade of tamarind trees.“We need a government that knows how to balance power between these two big countries,” Mr. Natapong said, declining to disclose which party he voted for but acknowledging he came from a military family.“It’s not only about domestic politics,” Mr. Natapong said. “It’s about Thailand’s place in the world.”

Supported byNetflix does not face the pressures and dangers that Arab networks and artists do. It makes its bowing to Saudi censorship demand even more disappointing.By Ursula LindseyMs. Lindsey writes about culture and politics in the Arab world. RABAT, Morocco — International media companies and platforms would have us all consume the same movies, television shows and music, streamed across the globe. Unfortunately, censorship is becoming globalized alongside culture.In response to a request by Saudi authorities, Netflix recently removed an episode of the stand-up comedy show “Patriot Act,” featuring Hasan Minhaj. The Saudi government accused Mr. Minhaj’s show of violating the kingdom’s vague and broad cybercrime law forbidding the “production, preparation, transmission or storage of material impinging on public order, religious values, public morals and privacy online.”In the offending episode, Mr. Minhaj eviscerated Prince Mohammed bin Salman, holding him responsible for the murder of the columnist Jamal Khashoggi and the Saudi bombing campaign in Yemen. He also mocked the crown prince’s recent efforts to cast himself as a modernizer and a reformer. By making the episode unavailable in Saudi Arabia, Netflix became complicit in the pervasive censorship that artists, entertainers, journalists and regular citizens have long had to deal with in the Middle East.That censorship has only worsened in recent years. Freedom of speech is under assault worldwide, as authoritarian governments shrink the space for dissent and further criminalize various forms of expression.Arab countries are not unique in having laws that criminalize offenses to heads of state, to national institutions such as the army and to national and religious values. Entertainers and creators whose words rub the authorities the wrong way can be accused of vague crimes like tarnishing the country’s reputation, offending public morals, inciting unrest or shaking the foundations of national security.Stand-up is a relatively new entertainment form in Arab countries. But the region has a long tradition of humor in theater, film, political cartoons and the constantly evolving repertoire of jokes told on the streets of Cairo, Beirut and Algiers.The years following the Arab Spring were marked by an outpouring of creativity, dissent and wit. So many people were making fun of the ruling class that they couldn’t be silenced or punished. Social media played a huge role in spreading these barbs and takedowns.In Egypt, where I lived during the Arab Spring, the comedian Bassem Youssef — who modeled himself on Jon Stewart — became a phenomenal success, making fun of government officials, hypocritical media figures and bigots. He mocked the bumbling Islamist president Mohammed Morsi relentlessly, and was both taken to court and lionized for it.The freedom that Mr. Bassem and others like him enjoyed was short lived. Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates were threatened by the popular uprisings of 2011 and bankrolled a counterrevolution, squashing protests in Bahrain and encouraging the Egyptian military to depose Mr. Morsi and take power. The authoritarian regimes that came to power determined to roll back the demands of the Arab Spring proceeded to ensure that what they saw as disrespectful speech was curtailed and policed. After President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi took over in 2013, Mr. Youssef was harassed and threatened; his show was shut down and he soon left the country. Last February, the Egyptian pop singer Sherine Abdel Wahab, who joked onstage about the waters of the Nile being polluted, was sentenced to six months in prison for spreading false news.In the Saudi context, Mr. Minhaj is just the latest voice the authorities have tried to silence. They have remorselessly targeted artists and critics. Last spring, the Saudi police kidnapped Fahad Albutairi, a Saudi actor, from Jordan and returned him forcibly to the kingdom. Mr. Albutairi, who had a popular YouTube comedy channel, may have been targeted for his online monologues or for being married to Loujain al-Hathloul, a prominent feminist activist.Since his kidnapping, Mr. Albutairi has disappeared from the online public sphere and is no longer married to Ms. Hathloul, who has been held without charge for nine months now and has reportedly been waterboarded. Her crime, presumably, is having a voice at all, on a matter — women’s rights — that has become part of the crown prince’s brand.Saudi Arabia has been able to further curtail critical speech — funny or not — because along with the United Arab Emirates and Qatar, it owns all the major pan-Arab satellite television networks and can set the limits of admissible discourse. Even media in the Middle East that does not belong to Gulf countries often caters to their sensitivities because of their economic clout.Netflix doesn’t face the same pressures and dangers that Arab channels and artists do. This makes it all the more disappointing that it acquiesced to the Saudi demand, seemingly out of a desire not to be shut out of a new market.Netflix has defended its position by stating, “We strongly support artistic freedom worldwide and only removed this episode in Saudi Arabia after we had received a valid legal request — and to comply with local law.” But sometimes one has to choose artistic freedom over complying with a repressive and arbitrary law. Netflix would have done better to let Saudi Arabia censor Mr. Minhaj’s work than to censor it itself on the kingdom’s behalf.The streaming giant has set a disturbing precedent and is likely to receive more such requests in the future, as are other media platforms. The authoritarian regimes that are flourishing in the Middle East and elsewhere these days are intent on asserting their authority and their narratives not just domestically but internationally.It is certainly hard to imagine any stand-up that features commentary on contemporary Arab politics not running afoul of one regime or another. Would Netflix then simply avoid subjects of any political importance as numerous networks in the region already do?Mr. Minhaj’s banned episode remains available on YouTube and has drawn a much bigger global audience because of the controversy. But censorship isn’t just about making work and views completely unavailable. It is about asserting a prerogative to police everyone’s public utterances and driving certain speech underground, casting it as illegitimate and dangerous.By going along with the Saudi request, Netflix lent some legitimacy to the claim that it is wrong for Saudis to ever hear their leaders criticized. Despite its reach and influence, Netflix failed to defend everyone’s right to laugh at the powerful and their lies.Ursula Lindsey writes about culture and politics in the Arab world and co-hosts the Bulaq podcast.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. 

Supported byBy Melissa EddyBERLIN — A 20-year-old German student took advantage of passwords as weak as “Iloveyou” and “1234” to hack into online accounts of hundreds of lawmakers and personalities whose political stances he disliked, officials revealed Tuesday, shaking Berlin’s political establishment and raising questions about data security in Europe’s leading economy.Working from his computer in his parents’ home, the young man used relatively simple techniques to hack into successive accounts, the authorities said. There, he stole the users’ personal information and published it through Twitter over the course of December.But it was not until late on Jan. 3 that an employee in the office of Andrea Nahles, leader of the center-left Social Democratic Party, finally noticed the hack and informed security officials, who then scrambled to track the source of the leaks.At a time when Western officials are increasingly wary of digital interference in institutions and elections, and just months before European elections, the revelation of a widespread data breach that took a month to detect has prompted harsh assessments of the preparedness of a nation that for decades has prided itself on its technological prowess. The news that a single person, using unsophisticated methods, was responsible, only compounded those concerns.On Tuesday, Chancellor Angela Merkel’s interior minister, Horst Seehofer, and senior security officials pushed back against accusations they had been too slow to respond or had failed in their mission to keep Germans safe online. They insisted they had organized a response within minutes of learning of the hack and said they had informed lawmakers about the risk of security breaches after a 2015 hack on the government network.“This incident is painful, but our reaction shows the security of the German people is ensured around the clock, also in the cybersphere,” Mr. Seehofer told reporters.Holger Münch, the head of Germany’s federal police, said the young man, whose identity was not released because he was being treated as a juvenile, had admitted during questioning to stealing the personal data of an array of public figures. Most of them are politicians, from all of Germany’s leading political parties — save for the far-right Alternative for Germany, or AfD.“Based on our assessment so far, we believe he acted alone,” Mr. Münch told reporters, adding that so far, investigators had no evidence that the hacker had any affiliation with a political party or other groups. “He acted out of a general discontent with politicians, or journalists, or public figures, who he wanted to expose. That was his motive.”The man was detained on Sunday on suspicion of spying and illegally publishing personal information, crimes that carry a sentence of up to three years each. But because he has no previous criminal record and is being treated as a juvenile, it is likely that he would receive a much lighter sentence.He has since been released on grounds there was not sufficient reason to hold him in detention pending the outcome of the investigation, said Georg Ungefuk, a prosecutor with the Frankfurt-based office responsible for cybercrimes, which is carrying out the investigation.Germany’s main government network was breached by hackers in 2015, and the authorities worried that information obtained then would be used against politicians leading up to the 2017 election. Those fears were largely unfounded, but Mr. Seehofer, the interior minister, warned that last month’s breach should be a warning to everyone, especially ahead of the European parliamentary election in May.“We must be prepared that outside actors may want to influence this election and take every precaution to prevent this and do what we can to recognize such an action as early as possible,” he said. “It could be a very different perpetrator.”Despite the shock that a single person was able to agitate and alarm the country’s political establishment, Mr. Münch pointed out that many young people had committed crimes from computers in their bedrooms, citing examples of teens who had been caught selling weapons or drugs over the “dark web,” areas of the internet hidden from the view of most users.Dirk Engling, spokesman for the Chaos Computer Club, a German collective of hackers, said the hack itself wasn’t technically difficult, but required a great deal of patience in order to learn the necessary passwords.He listed previous examples in Germany of such hacks where an individual’s private information was stolen for the purposes of publishing online, known in the tech world as “doxxing,” but pointed out that they had largely gone ignored by policymakers.“Now that they have been snatched from their online accounts, suddenly it seems to have changed some minds,” Mr. Engling said.The authorities said that on learning of the breaches on Jan. 3, they immediately began coordinating efforts to find the source and request that Twitter take down the offending account, which happened the following morning.The Twitter account announced in November that the leaks were coming, and on Dec. 1 it began posting the data, but apparently few people noticed until weeks later. The authorities said they were still evaluating hard drives and personal papers confiscated in a raid on the man’s home.Of the nearly 1,000 people whose information was leaked, 949 were politicians, roughly half of them from the governing Christian Democratic Union, Mr. Münch said. While some of the information published was already public, there were 116 cases of personal documents that were illegally made public, he said.Opposition lawmakers and members of Ms. Nahles’ S.P.D., which governs in a coalition with the Christian Democrats, have criticized the country’s cybersecurity office and Mr. Seehofer for failing to discover the incursion earlier. The hacker released the information through links and passwords posted on Twitter in the form of an Advent calendar, where a window is opened each day leading up to Christmas, revealing a treat.Early postings involved the personal information of rappers, journalists and YouTube video bloggers, but from Dec. 20, information on members of five of the six political parties with seats in the German Parliament was released. It was not clear why AfD politicians were spared.The attack raised new questions about whether the government had structures in place to adequately help users safeguard their computers and sensitive personal information.Katarina Barley, the justice minister, said her office was looking into whether it made sense to further tighten the country’s already strict privacy laws, or those requiring software providers and companies running internet platforms to respond more swiftly to requests for data to be taken down.“We are examining whether tightening the laws would make sense or be necessary,” Ms. Barley said. She and Mr. Seehofer encouraged Germans to use strong passwords, avoid using the same password for multiple accounts and two-step verification to access to their online accounts as their best.“It can happen anywhere,” said Mr. Engling said of hacks on personal information. “It’s easy to always blame the Chinese and Russia, but using private email for business or political matters makes you susceptible.”Follow Melissa Eddy on Twitter: @meddynyt.Adam Satariano contributed reporting from London.

Supported byBy Ron NixonWASHINGTON — At least 19 Immigration and Customs Enforcement investigators are seeking to dissolve the agency, concerned that the Trump administration’s crackdown on illegal migrants has limited their ability to pursue national security threats, child pornography and transnational crime.In a letter sent last week to Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, the special agents proposed creating a stand-alone investigations unit and another agency to handle immigration detention and deportation. The request was sent as a growing number of Democrats and immigration-rights advocates have called for eliminating ICE.Investigations “have been perceived as targeting undocumented aliens, instead of the transnational criminal organizations that facilitate cross border crimes impacting our communities and national security,” wrote the agents from Homeland Security Investigations, which is a branch of ICE. The Texas Observer first reported the letter.The investigators said local law enforcement officials have questioned the independence of their agency, given the Trump administration’s aggressive policies against illegal immigration — including arresting undocumented workers for minor offenses, such as driving without a license.At least two House Democrats — Representatives Mark Pocan of Wisconsin and Pramila Jayapal of Washington — are pushing to eliminate ICE. And Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, who stunned the Democratic establishment this week with her upstart primary victory against Representative Joe Crowley of New York, made abolishing ICE one of the key planks of her campaign.An agency spokesperson did not respond to a request for comment on Thursday. But a senior ICE official said there were “operational challenges raised in that letter that merit some discussion.”Homeland Security Investigations is one of several divisions within ICE — the best-known of which is Enforcement and Removal Operations, which arrests, detains and deports undocumented immigrants.The agents’ letter is rooted in longstanding tensions between the investigative and deportation divisions within ICE.The child of a forced marriage between two defunct federal agencies — The United States Customs Service and the Immigration and Naturalization Service — ICE has long struggled to balance its dual roles of transnational criminal investigations and deportations.Some agents in the investigations unit have said the Trump administration has prioritized ICE’s deportations mission. Thomas D. Homan, the acting director of ICE and former leader of its deportation unit, has been a vocal proponent of the administration’s immigration policies.The more than 6,000 special agents assigned to Homeland Security Investigations focus on money laundering, drug trafficking, human smuggling, child exploitation and cybercrimes. The agents have been involved in some of the highest-profile criminal investigations in recent years, including the takedown of the Silk Road website, an online market where illegal drugs and fake identifications were sold.The agency was also involved in the arrest and capture of drug lord Joaquín Guzmán Loera, better known as “El Chapo, who led the Sinaloa cartel before he was extradited to the United States last year.H.S.I. is also the lead government agency for counter proliferation investigations, targeting individuals who illegally try to smuggle military and other high-tech equipment out of the country. The division has about 50 offices around the world.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.

Supported byAnother ViewBy Craig A. NewmanIt has been seven years since the Securities and Exchange Commission first advised public companies to tell investors if they had suffered a cyberattack deemed to be material. But even with the rising number of severe hacks, only a few companies report incidents each year to the S.E.C.Now the S.E.C. has issued updated cybersecurity guidance. Again, it warned public companies to make “timely” disclosure, recognizing the “grave threat” that cybercrime poses to investors and the capital markets.Yet, the S.E.C.’s new guidance doesn’t confront the practical quandary facing public companies victimized by a cyberattack: Going public with news of a cyberattack isn’t always an easy call. Doing so can risk tipping off the bad guys and imperil investigations. Law enforcement often encourages, or even demands, that the incident not be disclosed. At the same time, companies know they have a duty to their investors to provide prompt information about any real risks to their businesses.This tension between the need for discreet cooperation with law enforcement and the obligation to inform investors and the markets creates a dilemma for public companies. Unfortunately, the commission’s updated guidance provides little direction to corporate leaders confronting these conflicting demands. While the guidance acknowledges that it will often take time to “discern the implications” of a breach and that it “may be necessary to cooperate” with law enforcement, it concludes that an active investigation would not “on its own” be a reason to avoid disclosure of a material cybersecurity incident.Perhaps this dilemma explains why so few public companies report breaches. In 2017, only 24 companies reported breaches to the S.E.C., according to Audit Analytics, a firm that tracks securities law filings. Since 2011, when the S.E.C. issued its initial cyber guidance, only 106 companies have reported incidents to the S.E.C.But during that same period, there were 4,732 cyberattacks on American businesses, researchers for the Privacy Rights Clearinghouse found. While a proportion of those were private companies, it’s unlikely that public companies suffered only 106 breaches that were material in that time.The S.E.C. has investigated tardy data breach disclosures but has yet to bring an enforcement action against a company that failed to disclose an incident. The agency is investigating Yahoo’s two data breaches in 2013 and 2014, which the company did not disclose until 2016 even though information on three billion users was compromised. Equifax, too, has acknowledged that the S.E.C. is looking into the theft of Social Security numbers, license numbers, addresses and dates of birth for nearly 145.5 million Americans. The breach was detected in July but not disclosed to the S.E.C. and investors until September.Where does that leave public companies that have been hacked?The solution is not simple. Some say the S.E.C. should adopt a regulation giving companies a “pass” from public disclosure obligations if they refer the matter to law enforcement. But such a rule could easily be abused by corporations that have a big incentive to hush up attacks. They could easily make a halfhearted referral to law enforcement and then use it as a smoke screen to avoid a potentially devastating disclosure.Even companies trying to do the right thing are stuck. They might report an attack to law enforcement, and then hear nothing for weeks or months, in part because there is not enough staff to investigate all of these hacks. At some point, a company will have to conclude that its duty to investors overrides its responsibility as a good corporate citizen to comply with requests for discretion.Even when a breach is disclosed, it’s difficult for companies to support the needs of law enforcement. Companies face irate money managers and investment advisers, who are duty-bound to ask tough questions about their investments. Without getting straight and candid answers to those tough questions, they lose the ability to monitor their investments and, indeed, risk watching their investments lose critical value without visibility into what actually happened.Perhaps this conflict is fundamentally irreconcilable. But with stakes so important given the increasingly sophisticated threats posed by cybercrime to corporate America, we should view the S.E.C.’s new guidance as a starting point and collective opportunity to figure this out.Craig A. Newman is a partner with Patterson Belknap Webb &amp; Tyler L.L.P., the New York law firm, and chair of its data security and privacy group.

Supported byBy Liz RobbinsThe federal government said it had seized enough counterfeit Gucci bags, Hermes belts and Tory Burch purses to fill 22 shipping containers, in a six-year investigation into the importation and sale of fake luxury goods that ended on Thursday with charges filed against 33 people. The individuals were charged with conspiracy, trafficking in counterfeit goods and trademark counterfeiting.The goods were part of a scheme originating in China that stretched to warehouses in Queens and even to retailers in Illinois and California, officials from Homeland Security Investigations, a branch of the United States Customs and Immigration Enforcement agency, announced at a news conference in New York on Thursday.“This is the largest investigation that our agency has had regarding the amount of counterfeit items,” Angel M. Melendez, New York’s special agent in charge of Homeland Security Investigations in New York, said in an interview.The goods seized were knockoffs of popular brands, including Gucci, Tory Burch, Hermes, Coach, Burberry, Michael Kors and Louis Vuitton. There was knockoff Chanel perfume, too, which concerned investigators since previous schemes had involved using animal urine instead of the perfume company’s formula.Authorities estimated that the loss in retail value to the United States was nearly a half-billion dollars. In 2012, federal authorities in Newark, N.J., charged 29 people with trying to smuggle $325 million worth of fake goods into the country.Mr. Melendez said at the news conference that 32 of the men and women had been arrested. All of them are of Chinese heritage. One was living in the country illegally.Mr. Melendez said the federal government had attacked the supply chain rather than going after individuals who sell counterfeit goods on the streets.The investigation began in 2012, when Customs and Border Protection agents at the Port of Newark noticed anomalies in a shipping manifest; upon opening a 40-foot cargo container, the agents inspected the goods and realized they were counterfeit, said Leon Hayward, the assistant director of trade and cargo security for the border agency.Mr. Melendez said that the fraud scheme had two parts. In one, counterfeit goods were made in China and then shipped to the United States through as many as eight legitimate shipping companies.The importers represented themselves as employees of legitimate importing companies with email addresses and phone numbers. The goods were trucked to warehouses in Queens, Brooklyn and Long Island, and then wholesale distributors sold the goods to other distributors.In the other part of the scheme, he said, defendants traveled to China to purchase generic items, which could be exported legally. A separate factory then produced knockoff logos, which were smuggled into the United States and affixed to the goods.Three retail businesses in Queens and two in Manhattan were part of the scheme, Mr. Melendez said, adding that they had closed. But an employee at one of the businesses identified by authorities, Proya Fashion, in the Manhattan garment district, said it was still operating, and insisted that no one was arrested. The employee hung up before giving her name.None of the other businesses could be reached for comment.Twenty of the containers came in through the Port of New York and New Jersey, and two through the Port of Los Angeles, Mr. Melendez said.As part of the indictment, authorities for the agency, known as ICE, said they also seized personal property belonging to the defendants in the New York metropolitan area worth a total of $12 million.ICE is better known for its operations in domestic immigration enforcement, which have led some Democratic candidates around the country to call for the agency to be abolished. Some officials within Homeland Security Investigations, which conducts investigations of crimes like counterfeit goods, money laundering, drug trafficking, human smuggling, child exploitation and cybercrimes, have sought to distance themselves from immigration enforcement.In June, 19 investigators sent a letter to Kirstjen Nielsen, the secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, requesting a stand-alone agency.Ronald D. Vitiello, the deputy director of ICE, who had come to New York for the announcement of the investigation, said that the agency’s two arms should remain together. “I think the work that both big halves of the organization do are mutually dependent,” he said. “Part of my vision going forward is to make sure each of us understands that.”Follow Liz Robbins on Twitter: @nytlizrobbins

Supported byThe skills needed for cybersecurity jobs aren’t easy to learn in the classroom.By Josephine WolffMs. Wolff is an assistant professor at the Rochester Institute of Technology.Between September 2017 and August 2018, employers in the United States posted 313,735 job openings for cybersecurity professionals. Filling those jobs would mean increasing the country’s current cybersecurity work force of 715,000 people by more than 40 percent, according to data presented at the National Initiative for Cybersecurity Education Conference this month. With the number of unfilled cybersecurity jobs worldwide projected to multiply into the millions in the next three years, it’s no surprise that governments, companies and schools are racing to pour more resources into cybersecurity training and education programs. As someone who teaches in a rapidly growing computing security program at the Rochester Institute of Technology, this is good news for me and my students. I think we are doing a good and responsible job of training our students, who will be snapped up by recruiters. But I’ve watched as the field of cybersecurity has become formalized through a flurry of new degrees, certificates and curriculums, and I worry that some fundamental components of what make people really good at security — namely, the instincts to look at systems in unconventional ways and quickly identify possible ways to cause trouble — are being lost along the way.The idea of degree programs focused solely on cybersecurity is still pretty new. At R.I.T., the bachelor’s degree in security was introduced in 2007, and the dedicated Computing Security department wasn’t formed until 2012. That means we haven’t had a lot of time to debug these programs, especially since, in academic settings, every significant curricular change typically requires several meetings followed by extensive paperwork and committee approval. The field is so new that nearly every cybersecurity professional over the age of 30 does not have a degree in cybersecurity — many of them don’t even have degrees in computer science, and several don’t have college degrees at all.Cybersecurity has long been a field that embraced people with nontraditional backgrounds. Following the Equifax breach last year, some critics slammed the company for hiring a chief security officer who majored in music, prompting a considerable backlash from security professionals who took to Twitter to flash their own liberal arts degrees or lack of formal education. The poster child for the unconventional path to a cybersecurity job is Kevin Mitnick, who was convicted of illegal computer hacking and spent five years in prison before establishing a career as a highly sought after security consultant.It’s not a coincidence that someone good at cybercrime would also be good at cybersecurity. After all, many cybersecurity jobs involve trying to think like a criminal to test the security of a software program, computer network or hardware device. Many of my students go on to work for red-teaming or penetration-testing firms, where they try to probe and attack computer systems from the outside to identify potential vulnerabilities. Some of these skills can be taught in the classroom, through checklists of where to look for possible weaknesses and tools that can be used to help conduct those assessments. But the most effective red teams, like the most effective attackers, find vulnerabilities that no one has ever thought of before — much less included on a course syllabus.The security technologist Bruce Schneier wrote an essay a decade ago about what he called “the security mind-set,” or the ability to instinctively identify ways of subverting or compromising systems by using them in unexpected ways. “It’s far easier to teach someone domain expertise — cryptography or software security or safecracking or document forgery — than it is to teach someone a security mind-set,” he wrote.Almost by definition, college classroom settings and the students who thrive in them are not a natural fit for the kinds of disruptive, rebellious and troublemaking instincts that lend themselves to finding new ways to compromise computers. It can be hard to reward those skills — much less teach them — in a college course where there are supposed to be clear expectations and learning objectives, well-defined grading rubrics and set schedules.There are efforts to try to introduce these skills to the classroom, but they are few and far between. For example, the security researchers Gregory Conti and James Caroland published an article on what they called “Kobayashi Maru” assignments, named for a “Star Trek” training exercise, designed to force students to figure out creative ways to cheat. The example they used in their own class was an exam for which students were required to write down the first 100 digits of pi with very little notice. The students were expected (and encouraged) to cheat on the test but told that if they were caught, they would fail the exam. Of the 20 students in the class where this exercise was tested, all succeeded in cheating without being caught, much to their professors’ delight.There is plenty of useful and important material being taught in cybersecurity classes beside how to cheat, from programming and networks to cryptography, and my own area of economics and policy. But the students who graduate from our degree program in security often report that they got more out of their extracurricular security clubs and competitions than their coursework. That may not necessarily be bad, or even unique to cybersecurity (don’t get me started on the topic of how much I learned writing for my college newspaper), but it does suggest that as we race forward trying to train millions more people in cybersecurity to fill all the looming vacant jobs, there may be real gaps in the skills we know how to teach. We should think carefully about the skills we need, about the rules and principles that we know how to teach and also about how to encourage students to break those rules and find ways around those principles.Josephine Wolff (@josephinecwolff) is an assistant professor at the Rochester Institute of Technology and the author of “You’ll See This Message When It Is Too Late: The Legal and Economic Aftermath of Cybersecurity Breaches.”Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported byBy Ron NixonWASHINGTON — Senate Democrats on Thursday grilled Ronald D. Vitiello, President Trump’s pick to lead Immigration and Customs Enforcement, bombarding him with pointed questions about the administration’s detention of migrant children and a three-year-old Twitter post in which he made derogatory remarks about the Democratic Party.Mr. Vitiello, a former Border Patrol agent who was appointed acting director of ICE in June, is seeking to become the first permanent director of the agency in the Trump administration.In his opening remarks, Mr. Vitiello portrayed himself as a career law enforcement official whose more than 30 years of experience made him the ideal leader for the immigration agency.“I have a deep understanding of the laws and policies governing our immigration system and am well prepared to lead ICE,” Mr. Vitiello said.But several Democrats on the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee questioned that statement, noting his role in the Trump administration’s “zero tolerance” immigration policy that led to the separation of migrant children from their parents and a 2015 Twitter post in which Mr. Vitiello referred to the Democratic Party as the “liberalcratic party or NeoKlanist Party.”Asked about the tweet by Senator Gary Peters, Democrat of Michigan, Mr. Vitiello said the post was a mistake that he deeply regretted.“I did not mean to suggest that the party was against American values,” he said. “I honestly didn’t mean it that way.”Senator Maggie Hassan, Democrat of New Hampshire, pressed Mr. Vitiello on the detention of migrant children, asking if he agreed with a report by the American Academy of Pediatrics that found that long-term detention physically and emotionally harmed minors.“Do you agree with pediatricians?” Ms. Hassan said. “Do you accept that long-term detention of children is detrimental?”“I understand the report, yes,” answered Mr. Vitiello, who was the acting deputy commissioner of Customs and Border Protection when the zero-tolerance policy was put in place. He did not say whether he agreed with the report’s findings.ICE has become a political flash point for its role in immigration enforcement, which has included arresting, detaining and deporting thousands of undocumented migrants — many of whom have no criminal records. Photographs and videos of raids at work sites or of ICE agents arresting undocumented immigrants have incited a backlash.Several prominent Democrats have called for the agency to be abolished.As part of her bid for Congress, Representative-elect Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, a self-described democratic socialist from New York, pressed for ICE to be dismantled. Senators Kirsten Gillibrand of New York and Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, considered potential 2020 presidential candidates, have joined Ms. Ocasio-Cortez and other Democrats in demanding that the agency be eliminated.Legislation is also pending in the House to abolish ICE in a plan pushed by Democratic representatives including Mark Pocan of Wisconsin and Pramila Jayapal of Washington.In his testimony, Mr. Vitiello rejected such calls.“If confirmed, one of my highest priorities will be to better demonstrate to the public, Congress and the media the importance of our mission to homeland security and public safety — and why our agency’s existence should not be up for debate,” he said.Mr. Vitiello received letters of support from several people who have worked with him, who described him as a quiet and thoughtful leader willing to engage with people who have opposing opinions.“His success will be that he has established a record as a nonpolitical law enforcement officer,” said R. Gil Kerlikowske, who was the commissioner of Customs and Border Protection during the Obama administration. “His decisions will be guided by what’s best from the law enforcement perspective, not politics.”As the acting director of ICE, Mr. Vitiello has taken a low-key approach to running the agency and carrying out the Trump administration’s immigration enforcement policies.That contrasts with his predecessor, Thomas D. Homan, who became a Fox News contributor after retiring.Mr. Homan was known for his enthusiastic public support of the Trump administration’s immigration enforcement policies, including telling members of the House Appropriations Committee during a June 2017 hearing that undocumented migrants “need to be worried.” He also issued a public challenge to the transnational MS-13 gang, warning, “My gang is bigger than theirs, and we are going to take them out.”Mr. Vitiello faces a number of internal problems at ICE. The union representing ICE officers sent a letter to the homeland security committee questioning Mr. Vitiello’s ability to lead the agency, saying he lacked the spark to be the “change agent.” Union leaders also said they were disturbed by a March 2016 tweet by Mr. Vitiello comparing Mr. Trump to the cartoon character Dennis the Menace. The union endorsed Mr. Trump in the 2016 presidential election.Mr. Vitiello said he had spoken with leaders to address their concerns.In a June letter to Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, 19 senior ICE investigators demanded that the agency be split up. The investigators are among the more than 6,000 special agents from a division of ICE, Homeland Security Investigations, that focuses on money laundering, drug trafficking, human smuggling, child exploitation and cybercrimes. In the letter, senior investigators said the Trump administration’s crackdown on undocumented migrants had limited their ability to pursue national security threats, child pornography offenses and transnational crime.Enforcement Removal Operations, another division of ICE, is responsible for arresting and deporting people who are in the United States illegally.Mr. Vitiello said he had met with the investigators but would not consider splitting the agency into separate entities.“I don’t think we should take any steps in that direction,” he said. “Having those two complementary missions side by side is better for America.”Mr. Vitiello has worked in law enforcement for more than 30 years, starting in 1985 as a Border Patrol agent in Laredo, Tex. While he was at Customs and Border Protection, he was the public face of the agency’s efforts to build a border wall.Peter S. Vincent, the top lawyer at ICE during the Obama administration, said Mr. Vitiello had a daunting task in leading an agency that is a key part of the Trump administration’s efforts to stem immigration.“Ron is measured, careful, thoughtful and not in any way prone to hyperbole or insensitive racially charged statements,” Mr. Vincent said. “All of which makes him a bad fit for this administration.”Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.

Supported byLet us help you start your day.By Alisha Haridasani Gupta(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning. We look at President Xi Jinping’s quest to absorb Taiwan, the U.S. Congress’s first day back and a 300-mile human chain in India. Here’s the latest:The Chinese leader called Taiwan’s autonomy “a wound to the Chinese nation” and demanded greater progress in Beijing’s decades-long quest to win control of the disputed island.Details: Mr. Xi gave Taiwan two options: He could use military force if the self-ruled territory grasped for independence, or he could offer a “one country, two systems” deal, similar to the framework used in Hong Kong. But the president didn’t lay down a timetable for either path.Reaction: People in Taiwan are unlikely to be receptive to Mr. Xi’s offer, especially as they watch Beijing squeeze Hong Kong’s political freedoms.Context: China and Taiwan have been in conflict over the island’s status since 1949, when forces defeated by Mao Zedong retreated to the island. Tensions increased when the island moved to democratic elections in the 1990s. Today, only 3 percent of Taiwan’s population favors immediate unification with China, according to a recent survey.Democrats will take control of the House of Representatives when it reconvenes today, representing the first taste of a split government during the Trump era.Details: The U.S. government has been partly shut down for nearly two weeks after a legislative impasse over funding for a border wall.What to watch for: President Trump has invited congressional leaders of both parties to a briefing on border security. Representative Nancy Pelosi, who is likely to be elected speaker today, has said the wall can’t be part of any deal to reopen the government.Kim Jong-un said on Tuesday that he was willing to hold a second summit meeting with President Trump, but he added that if international sanctions weren’t lifted, the North would “have no choice” but to return to nuclear confrontation.“We will not make nuclear weapons and we will not proliferate nuclear weapons,” Mr. Kim said. But he added that it “won’t be good” if the U.S. didn’t make “corresponding measures.”Details: Progress between the U.S. and North Korea hinges on the definition of “denuclearization.” For the U.S., that means the North giving up its entire arsenal. For North Korea, it also includes a reciprocal pullback of America’s ability to threaten the country with nuclear weapons.Analysis: Mr. Kim has essentially returned to where things stood when Mr. Trump took office, indicating that their meeting in Singapore in June altered the optics of their relationship more than the reality, writes our national security correspondent.Two women in the southern Indian state of Kerala sneaked into a centuries-old Hindu shrine that has long barred women of childbearing age.Context: In October, India’s Supreme Court ruled that the ban on women entering the temple was unconstitutional. Since then, women trying to set foot in the shrine have been pushed back by mobs shouting in their faces and hurling stones.Why it matters: This recent development in Kerala was part of a broader movement for equality in the country. Hours before the women entered the temple, an estimated five million people formed a 300-mile-long human chain protesting gender inequality.Reaction: The news was met with protests across the state. The police moved relatives of one of the women to a safe house, local news media reported. And a Hindu priest shut down the temple for “purification rituals.”But one officer stationed near the temple said the two women, whose names were given only as Bindu and Kanakadurga, were “real heroines.”U.S.-China trade talks: As negotiations seeking to reach a deal by March 2 begin, we take a look at the U.S. trade representative Robert Lighthizer, a China skeptic who wants to keep an anxious president from making a hasty compromise to calm the markets.Markets: The new year started on a down note, as shares on Wall Street tumbled at the start of trading, following declines in Europe and Asia, but rose later in the day.Tesla: The auto company reported a 15 percent increase in quarterly production but also announced a price cut for all models, which could suggest softer demand.Censorship factories: Our New New World columnist takes an inside look at Chinese companies whose thousands of low-wage workers help the government monitor and scrub content online.Birth tourism: Chinese mothers choosing to give birth in Canada to get citizenship for their babies are facing growing opposition in the country, with some Canadians calling the legal practice “unethical.”Cultural Revolution: The Chinese photographer Li Zhensheng has been on a decades-long mission to make his country remember the decade when up to 1.5 million died, according to some estimates. Now he’s published a Chinese-language book of his photographs from the 1960s.Moon landing: The Chinese spacecraft Chang’e-4 will make the first-ever attempt to land on the far side of the moon today. [BBC]Ultima Thule: A NASA spacecraft successfully completed a flyby of that small, icy world — the most distant object in space ever explored.Saudi Arabia: Netflix blocked an episode of Hasan Minhaj’s talk show from streaming in the kingdom after the Saudi government complained that the program, in which the comedian criticized Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, violated its cybercrime laws.Qatar: The predominantly Muslim country imposed a 100 percent tax on alcohol, effectively doubling the cost of imported beverages in an attempt to restrict consumption.Russia: More than two dozen people died when an apartment building partly collapsed after an explosion. About a dozen others are still missing.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Marinate salmon in miso paste and maple syrup for a quick, delicious meal.Welcome to 2019. Here’s how to eat a little better.Making changes in the new year? Use science to stick to your goals.How do you acknowledge a colleague’s message? After a recent digital exchange, this writer looked into the history of one of his favored responses: “Roger that.”In the days of Morse code, an R was sent to indicate that a message had been received.That system evolved with the introduction of radio communications. Early transmissions were often of poor quality, so, to avoid misunderstandings, spelling alphabets were developed. Also called phonetic alphabets, they replaced letters with words that started with the corresponding letter.By World War II, the U.S. and British militaries had settled on a standard: Able for A, Baker for B … and Roger for R. (Previously, the British had used Robert.)In the 1950s, a new alphabet — commonly referred to as the NATO phonetic alphabet — was adopted, and is now the most widely used. It replaced Roger with Romeo. (I’m planning to stick with Roger.)Chris Stanford, on the briefings team, wrote today’s Back Story. Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.Alisha Haridasani Gupta writes the Morning Briefing.  @alisha__g 

Supported byBy Maya SalamA California man suspected of accessing and defacing numerous military, government and business websites, including that of West Point’s Combating Terrorism Center and the New York City Comptroller’s Office, was arrested Thursday on computer fraud charges.Prosecutors believe that from 2015 through March 2018, Billy Ribeiro Anderson, under the online pseudonym AlfabetoVirtual, gained unauthorized access to computers and replaced publicly available content with the words “Hacked by AlfabetoVirtual,” “#freepalestine,” “#freegaza,” or some combination of the three. Hackers often claim responsibility for cybercrimes by adding their online pseudonyms to their defacements.“Billy Anderson allegedly used specialized computer skills and knowledge to hack important U.S. military and government websites, as well as over 11,000 other websites around the world,” Geoffrey S. Berman, the United States attorney for the Southern District of New York, said Thursday in a statement issued by the Department of Justice.Mr. Anderson, 41, of Torrance, Calif., faces three counts of computer fraud, and could face up to 21 years in prison if convicted on all charges.“Among other possible effects, website defacements can disrupt an organization’s operations and damage its credibility,” William F. Sweeney Jr., the assistant director in charge of the F.B.I.’s New York field office, said in the statement.In July 2015, security vulnerabilities in a website for the New York City comptroller were exploited, and AlfabetoVirtual claimed responsibility for the intrusion and defacement.In October 2016, AlfabetoVirtual claimed responsibility for defacing a website for the Combating Terrorism Center, an academic center at the United States Military Academy in West Point, N.Y.According to the complaint, the comptroller’s office ultimately paid more than $5,000 to fix the damage, and the United States government paid more than $7,000 to fix West Point’s site.Mr. Anderson’s lawyer could not be identified on Thursday, and Sagar K. Ravi, an assistant United States attorney who is expected to prosecute the case, could not immediately be reached.Tampering with websites in this way is probably the most common type of hacking, Levi Gundert, a former United States Secret Service special agent within the Los Angeles Electronic Crimes Task Force, said in an interview on Thursday. And those looking for holes in web servers can find “so many different ways in,” he said. “There are hundreds of people who do this regularly.”The behavior of AlfabetoVirtual, Mr. Gundert said, seemed to be primarily hacktivist activity intended to spread a message, and leaving mostly superficial damage. “He probably looked at it as a harmless hobby,” said Mr. Gundert, who now runs a threat intelligence research team at the internet technology company Recorded Future.It was probably the importance of the sites that were targeted and the sheer number of sites that were hit that led prosecutors to proceed with a case, he said.There’s a “ton of potential for real harm” when someone gains unauthorized access to web servers, said Mr. Gundert, who pointed out that the large-scale Equifax breach last year — which exposed the personal information of up to 145 million Americans — began with unauthorized access. “Organizations generally underestimate the damage that can be done.”

Supported byTimes InsiderWhat started as a one-off opinion video about Cold War-era Russian disinformation soon became two videos and then three as news of 2016 election meddling flooded in.By Adam B. EllickTimes Insider delivers behind-the-scenes insights into how news, features and opinion come together at The New York Times.This wasn’t supposed to be a huge project. It began mostly as a curiosity. In the spring of 2017, a source gave me a State Department report from the 1980s that had exposed anti-American disinformation campaigns launched by Moscow. At the time, I was a senior video correspondent in the newsroom, and I started reading with low expectations. I had seen similar reports over the years. Many were unreadable and, given the passage of time, felt irrelevant. But this one read like a movie script — which inspired me to start reporting. I quickly hit a roadblock: Many of the people named in the report had died. So I put the project aside.In the fall of 2017, when I became director of opinion video, I picked it up again, along with our video archival researcher, Dahlia Kozlowsky. We hired foreign-language researchers to find the original fake newspaper stories, which had been published in dozens of countries. We also found old videos of K.G.B. agents who had defected to the West and divulged incredible details about their careers as purveyors of disinformation. It was stunning to watch these videos; it seemed as if the men being interviewed (yes, they were all men) were describing our 2018 political climate. Eventually, I located a few retired American government officials who had worked tirelessly countering Russian fake news in a pre-internet era. I also found a former Czechoslovakian disinformation director named Larry Martin (previously Ladislav Bittman) who had taken orders from Moscow. He was thrilled to receive my email “after several decades of total ignorance” by society toward the subject of disinformation and “active measures,” the broad Soviet political campaign to demonize the West and reshape the world order. Mr. Martin was 87, and he said his poor hearing made a phone conversation impossible. But he generously invited me to his home in a small town in Massachusetts. By this time, we were a small team that included Jonah M. Kessel, a Times videographer who had previously lived and worked in China; Leah Varjacques, an assistant producer; and Adam Westbrook, a co-director. When we arrived at Mr. Martin’s house, I noticed my LinkedIn profile printed out on his desk. Clearly, he hadn’t skipped a beat. He said he had taught disinformation at a college in Boston, but the topic lost appeal around the end of the Cold War, and his class was canceled. (I was crushed to learn that he died months after our interview, before our film debuted.) We produced a 12-minute video detailing the Cold War hoax claiming that the United States military had created the virus that causes AIDS to kill African-Americans and gay people. Over six years, the Soviets spread this conspiracy theory across 80 countries. A small task force within the American government exposed the lie, and a largely unreported cat-and-mouse game between Washington and the Kremlin ensued, ending with a shocking apology from the eighth and final leader of the U.S.S.R., Mikhail Gorbachev. (Never mind that the Soviets revived the lie again months later.)As we put the finishing touches on the video, the special counsel in charge of the Russia investigation, Robert S. Mueller III, and the Justice Department indicted 13 Russians and three Russian companies, accusing them of conspiring to interfere with “U.S. political and electoral processes, including the presidential election of 2016.” Reading through the indictment gave me goose bumps. It resembled those old State Department reports chronicling Soviet active measures and disinformation. The technology had changed, as had the scope and pace of the campaigns. But the DNA was nearly identical. For example, one email from a defendant included in the indictment contained awkward English: “So we’re gonna organize a flash mob across Florida to support Mr. Trump. We clearly understand that the elections winner will be predestined by purple states.” This mirrored how American officials discovered the AIDS lie, by detecting grammatical mistakes: An anonymous letter allegedly written by a “well-known American scientist and anthropologist” in New York, and printed in an Indian newspaper, claiming that AIDS was “believed to be the result of the Pentagon’s experiments to develop new and dangerous biological weapons,” referred to the “virus flu” instead of the “flu virus.” We felt it would be a major disservice to produce a deep historical account and leave audiences to connect the dots to indictments in 2018. So we began producing Episode 2, which outlines the seven time-tested commandments of Russian disinformation by overlaying the 1980s AIDS hoax with Pizzagate, a conspiracy theory that falsely claimed that the hacked emails of John Podesta, Hillary Clinton’s campaign manager, contained coded messages connecting Democratic Party figures with an alleged child sex ring run out of the Comet pizzeria in Washington. At this point, the public conversation was evolving into a debate about solutions. Facebook’s C.E.O., Mark Zuckerberg, testified, and the complex challenge of regulating social media companies was consistently a top story. The Russia story was moving faster than our production. As Trump clashed with his own generals about these cyberattacks, interest in the topic spiked. Again we regrouped, feeling it would be shortsighted to spotlight the crisis over two episodes without assigning some responsibility for the problem. After all, we are an opinion journalism department. There is no silver-bullet solution to this crisis, but I found some hope in Eastern Europe. I previously lived and reported in Lithuania and the Czech Republic, and this summer I found a striking video of leaders from the Baltic States testifying in Washington about the realities of disinformation. When I lived in the Baltics back in 2002, the region deeply admired the United States and aspired to join the European Union and NATO. We were their mentors. This recent video startled me, as it was a stunning role reversal. Suddenly, Baltic leaders were the experts advising American officials, who kept asking elementary if not naïve questions, at which they shrugged. For them, this is an old story about a government that has invaded them for generations — with everything from tanks to ideology to cybercrimes. As a result, many nations in Eastern Europe have installed progressive reforms to defend against disinformation, which they agree is a major threat to their young democracies. So our video team produced Episode 3, which includes solutions from Eastern Europe and calls on the United States government to consider more urgent and bold reforms. Because we were also busy covering the news and felt the urgency of this rapidly evolving story, Andrew Blackwell, an Op-Docs editor, volunteered to join the project as a co-director on that episode, in which we argue that Western governments are unequipped to grasp the crisis, let alone defend us from state-sponsored information warfare. After the United States was attacked on Sept. 11, 2001, we were on the ground in Afghanistan in less than a month. When the warfare is digital, we drag our feet in ignorance, if not denial. The attacks on the 2016 election were first plotted in early 2014, and some of our leaders are still debating who was behind those attacks and if they were real.On the other hand, Russian leaders aren’t politicians as we understand them. From Vladimir Putin on down, many are former generals and intelligence officers who have made K.G.B. stagecraft, including information warfare, a practice of the state. Last week, we decided to publish the series before the story takes yet another turn. Sadly, we are confident this project will remain relevant for quite some time.Keep up with Times Insider stories on Twitter, via the Reader Center: @ReaderCenter.Adam B. Ellick is the Director and Executive Producer of Opinion Video at The New York Times. He has produced Pulitzer Prize and Emmy winning video journalism. Previously, he was a senior international video correspondent and print reporter at The Times covering human rights.  @aellick • Facebook 

Supported byBy Ron Nixon and Linda QiuWASHINGTON — Over the past several weeks, protesters, Democratic lawmakers and candidates, and even some federal agents have demanded an end to the government agency known as ICE, railing against President Trump’s immigration policies, which have produced heart-wrenching images of migrants being stopped at the southwestern border.But the campaign against ICE may be conflating an alphabet soup of government agencies and their various roles in immigration enforcement. ICE, for example, was not separating migrant families illegally entering the United States from Mexico. Here’s an explanation of what it is doing.ICE stands for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, an agency within the Department of Homeland Security. ICE was created in 2003, as a part of the government’s reorganization after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.ICE is one of three agencies that absorbed and assumed the functions of the former Immigration and Naturalization Service (which was previously housed under the Justice Department) and the United States Customs Service (which was part of the Treasury Department).The other two Homeland Security agencies that took some of those responsibilities are Customs and Border Protection and Immigration and Citizenship Services.No. That’s Customs and Border Protection, the parent agency for the Border Patrol, which is responsible for patrolling, monitoring and securing the United States’ borders with Mexico and Canada.Under the Trump administration’s “zero tolerance” policy, which calls for prosecuting all who illegally enter the United States, Border Patrol agents at the southwestern border have been arresting and jailing adults, separating them from their children. ICE is made up of three major offices, one of which has overshadowed the others.Enforcement and Removal Operations, the best-known division of ICE, arrests, detains and deports unauthorized immigrants already inside the United States. The office had about 7,900 full-time employees and a $3.8 billion budget in the 2017 fiscal year, according to the Department of Homeland Security.Under President Barack Obama, the division prioritized removing undocumented immigrants who had committed serious crimes in the United States. Mr. Trump, after taking office, took a more hard-line stance and directed his administration to target anyone in the country illegally.Beyond Enforcement and Removal Operations is the lesser-known Homeland Security Investigations, which pursues criminals and terrorists involved in drug trafficking, weapons smuggling, human trafficking, cybercrime, financial crimes and identity fraud. It is also the lead government agency for counterproliferation investigations, and targets individuals who illegally try to smuggle military and other high-tech equipment out of the United States.With 8,300 full-time employees, H.S.I. is larger than E.R.O., although its $2 billion budget is smaller. It operates 26 offices across the country and about 50 internationally.The Office of the Principal Legal Adviser is the smallest division of ICE. It employs about 1,400 workers who provide legal support to other employees and represent the government in immigration courts.To a handful of Democratic lawmakers and some progressive candidates, ICE has become a symbol of the Trump administration’s aggressive immigration policies.Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, Democrat of New York, called last week to abolish ICE, characterizing it as a “deportation force” and arguing that immigration issues should be separate from criminal enforcement. Senator Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts, echoed the cry and said that given Mr. Trump’s “deeply immoral actions,” the entire immigration system should be reformed.Representative Mark Pocan, Democrat of Wisconsin, drew a more specific parallel to family separation at the border and ICE’s activities. In a news release, he cited how ICE is “conducting raids at garden centers and meatpacking plants” and “breaking up families at churches and schools,” referring to ICE’s aggressive enforcement of immigration laws inside the United States.Some are. Special agents with Homeland Security Investigations have recommended breaking up ICE but retaining its current functions — just reorganized into separate offices.In a letter to Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, the agents said the perception of ICE’s focus on deportations has hurt their ability to conduct investigations. They also said local law enforcement officials have refused to cooperate with their office’s investigations because of the politics of immigration.An agency spokesman did not respond to a request for comment last week, after the letter surfaced. But a senior ICE official said operational challenges raised in the letter merited discussion.

Supported byBy Joumana Khatib and Hiroko Masuike(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. It’s been another day of many headlines related to President Trump.His frequent punching bag over the Russia investigation, Jeff Sessions, pushed back firmly. “While I am attorney general, the actions of the Department of Justice will not be improperly influenced by political considerations.”Mr. Trump expressed support for his former campaign chairman Paul Manafort, who was convicted on bank and tax fraud charges on Tuesday. And he derided his former fixer, Michael Cohen, who pleaded guilty to campaign finance violations the same day, for “flipping,” saying it “almost ought to be illegal” to do so.He also found time to tweet a false claim that South Africa’s white farmers were being killed on a “large scale.”_____2. And in intriguing news:David Pecker, a tabloid executive close to President Trump, has been granted immunity by prosecutors, our reporters learned.Mr. Pecker would presumably have a great deal of information useful to them. He is the chairman of American Media Inc., which publishes The National Enquirer, a tabloid that quashed stories damaging to the Trump campaign.“The agreement,” our reporters write, “adds another unusual aspect to a case never seen before in the annals of presidential campaign finance history. It means that a company that operates as a news organization is cooperating with federal authorities on an investigation that involves its work with a campaign.”_____3. False alarm: The attempted hacking the D.N.C. reported to the F.B.I. this week was just a security test.Turns out the Michigan Democratic Party hired hackers to simulate an attack on the committee’s voter database, but failed to inform the national committee. The cybersecurity firm Lookout detected the attack.The state party chairman called the situation a “misstep,” but defended efforts to improve cybersecurity defenses “especially as the Trump administration refuses to crack down on foreign interference in our elections.”_____4. Reality Winner, the 26-year-old former N.S.A. linguist who leaked a classified report about Russian election interference to The Intercept news site, was sentenced to more than five years in prison.Prosecutors said her sentence was the longest ever imposed in federal court for such an act.Ms. Winner was fresh out of the Air Force and a few months into her N.S.A. job when she leaked the report. She said she took “full responsibility” for the “undeniable mistake I made,” and asked to “apologize profusely.”_____5. The Education Department is weighing whether to allow schools to buy guns with federal funding that had been set aside for enrichment in the country’s poorest schools.Education Secretary Betsy DeVos would be able to approve state or district plans to use the grant funding for firearms and firearm training.We got 3,200 reader comments when we posted the article on Facebook. In one hour._____6. Hurricane updates in Hawaii:Hurricane Lane is nearing Hawaii, bringing lashing rain and powerful wind gusts. Even if it does not make landfall, the National Weather Service warned, the Category 4 storm could have “life-threatening impacts.”We’re watching the storm and posting live updates here.One site on the Big Island has already recorded more than 18 inches of rain. Beyond flooding, federal emergency officials warned of the possibility of landslides and damaged infrastructure._____7. Promiscuous and embarrassing sexual behavior. Drug abuse. A lengthy police investigation into allegations of criminal domestic violence and cybercrimes.We parsed the Ohio State report that outlined the problems of one of the closest assistants to the university’s football coach, Urban Meyer.Still, the report found no unassailable evidence of a cover-up or that Meyer “deliberately lied” about his knowledge. He’s been suspended for six weeks and will miss the season opener on Sept. 1._____8. Steve Jobs’s daughter wants you to know: She’s absolved him, and you should too.In Lisa Brennan-Jobs’s new memoir, “Small Fry,” her father emerges as a distant, and sometimes cruel, parent. The details — he long denied paternity — run counter to the glowing mythology surrounding Mr. Jobs and his legacy.“I felt ashamed to be the bad part of a great story,” Ms. Brennan-Jobs told our reporter in one of a series of interviews. “And I felt unresolved.”_____9. Overlooked no more: Doria Shafik, the activist who helped lead Egypt’s women’s liberation movement. She was one of the most influential women in Arab history, but few today know her name.She earned a doctorate at the Sorbonne, took on the editorship of two feminist magazines — and led scores of women to storm Egypt’s Parliament in 1951.“No one will deliver freedom to the woman except the woman herself,” wrote Shafik, who died in 1975. “I decided to fight until the last drop of blood to break the chains shackling the women of my country.”_____10. Finally, you may remember social media challenges in the past: The Ice Bucket Challenge comes to mind, or even the Mannequin Challenge.But 2018 is taking them to a new level.Pet owners are hiding behind a sheet and running away, to the astonishment of their animals. People imitate a classic scene from the movie “Matilda,” when they pretend to have telekinesis. And the Instagram star Shiggy, above, created the InMyFeelings Challenge — which will surely be the dominant one of the summer.Words are failing me. Check out the videos.Enjoy your evening._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.

Supported byBy The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.When American democracy is at stake, nothing can be left to chance.That’s why New York legislators should quickly approve a proposal to let prosecutors pursue state charges against anyone pardoned by the president.It may seem odd to be so urgent about something so arcane and even hypothetical. But President Trump has raised fears that he could use his pardon power to shield associates under investigation as part of the special counsel inquiry into ties between his campaign and Russian hacking of the 2016 presidential election. That might not only let criminals escape justice, it could deprive the counsel, Robert Mueller, of leverage to get their testimony and learn about even greater wrongdoing.Mr. Trump has already raised the possibility of issuing pardons in general terms, and one of his lawyers spoke last year with attorneys for two former aides about issuing them pardons. At the time, Mr. Mueller was investigating the aides, Paul Manafort and Michael Flynn. Mr. Manafort, a former Trump campaign chairman, was indicted on money laundering and other charges. Mr. Flynn pleaded guilty to lying to the F.B.I. and is cooperating with investigators.Mr. Trump has already demonstrated that he is willing to use his pardoning power to stomach-churning effect. Last August, he granted such a reprieve to a former Arizona sheriff, Joe Arpaio, who was convicted of criminal contempt after he defied an order from a federal judge to stop conducting traffic patrols that racially profiled immigrants.Some of the federal crimes that Mr. Mueller appears to be pursuing could also entail the violation of New York laws, including tax evasion, bank fraud, cybercrimes and money laundering. The Fifth Amendment of the Constitution prohibits anyone from being charged twice for the same crime, but the Supreme Court has ruled that states can pursue charges that have already been the subject of federal prosecution. New York is one of many states, though, that have laws strengthening protections against such double jeopardy. By guarding against overcriminalization, these laws serve a useful purpose.Under the law now, prosecutors in New York cannot bring a similar or related case against someone after they plead guilty, or once a jury is sworn in at a federal trial.The proposal pending in Albany would preserve the integrity of the double jeopardy statute, but carve out a narrow exception for anyone pardoned by the president.The special prosecutor has already charged 19 people with crimes, while several more people close to Mr. Trump are said to be under investigation but haven’t been charged.Attorney General Eric Schneiderman championed the proposal, and his resignation earlier this month shouldn’t stop lawmakers from enacting it. It has the backing of Acting Attorney General Barbara Underwood. A spokeswoman for New York City Public Advocate Letitia James, the leading contender to replace Mr. Schneiderman, said Ms. James agrees with the concept but wants to study the specifics of the proposal before backing it.In remarks earlier this month, complaining about his imagined victimization by the Justice Department, the president said on Twitter that he would “have no choice but to use the powers granted to the Presidency and get involved!” It’s hard to know whether Mr. Trump meant that he was prepared to fire Mr. Mueller or Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, or to otherwise debase the separation of powers and the democracy he was elected to serve.At this anxious moment, Albany lawmakers and the governor have an unusual opportunity to secure the rule of law by enacting the proposed change. Assembly Democrats, reflexively skeptical of any measures that increase prosecutorial powers in an unequal criminal justice system, were initially wary. But the proposal entails only a small change.At least a small number of Republicans will have to be persuaded, since they have a razor-thin majority in the State Senate. Overall, the best way to make sure the amendment succeeds is to secure the backing of Gov. Andrew Cuomo, an expert Albany wrangler who could push this important measure over the finish line.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 

Supported byBy Stacy CowleyTwo years ago, IBM opened one of the nation’s first commercial cybersecurity ranges in Cambridge, Mass., to let companies practice responding to simulated cyberattacks. It describes the experience as “a game of Clue mixed with a Disney roller-coaster ride.”In a windowless bunker packed with a data center, wall-to-wall monitors, atmospheric controls, dozens of work stations and a functional TV studio, participants have about four hours to investigate and respond to a fictional data breach. It’s like an escape room for security nerds.The experience proved so popular — about 2,000 people, including chief executives and entire corporate boards, have played IBM’s game, which has an eight-month waiting list — that IBM decided to build a second range.But this time, it’s going mobile.The move is a reflection of the extent to which the threat of cyberattacks has captured the attention of organizations of all kinds, including the technology companies Facebook and Google, banks, military installations and those who run industrial control systems, like electricity and water providers. Tampering was a major issue in the election of President Trump, of course, and is cause for concern as the midterm elections approach.While companies are scrambling to get up to speed, they can’t always send an entire team away for a few days of training on how to spot and respond to a cyberattack.Starting Monday the company is introducing its mobile cyber command center, tucked into a heavily customized semitrailer truck. What IBM calls its “cyber tactical operations center” will make stops at college campuses and security-focused events before heading to Europe for a lengthy tour.Officially, the trailer is intended for cybersecurity education and as a mobile response unit. Unofficially, it’s also a playground packed with tech bling where geeks can experiment with ways to combat cyberattacks that have yet to be imagined.“People have put all kinds of cool things into trailers, but nobody has ever put a cyber command center into one before,” said Caleb Barlow, a vice president at IBM Security, where he leads the companys X-Force Threat Intelligence organization and created the Cambridge range.Touch screens displaying real-time threat monitoring — preferably with as many blinking charts and scary graphics as possible — are a must in any cyber war room. For the truck, IBM bought a 12-foot-long exterior screen that it said was one of the largest high-definition displays ever mounted to a vehicle.It also crammed in 20,000 feet of networking cable, two satellite dishes with cellular links, a generator-fueled power plant and a light tower with the intensity of 60 car headlights. Its data center, stuffed with server racks and multimedia controls, fits into a space the size of a large refrigerator.“This is toward the upper end of the most complicated trailers we’ve ever built,” said Mike Galvin, a sales manager for Featherlite, a manufacturer in Cresco, Iowa, that makes specialty trailers for emergency responders, mobile medical clinics and Nascar teams.On the road, the truck looks like any other shipping trailer hauling goods. But when it parks, it unfolds and triples its size. Beneath an extended canopy, IBM can unfurl a command post with 22 Mac-equipped work stations and a six-seat conference room.The main training room closely resembles IBM’s Cambridge range, with touch-screen monitors on three walls showing charts, video clips and forensic material like snippets of malicious computer code. From a tablet, IBM’s employees can adjust the room’s displays. A tap on the tablet’s “breaking news” button shifts the room’s lighting from a soothing blue to urgent red.“It helps us get the cortisol going,” Mr. Barlow said. “People react unconsciously to the visual cues.”Cyber ranges take their inspiration from the military. Just as soldiers train in simulated environments for the conditions they might face in battle, cyber defenders regularly practice on virtual networks. A growing number of companies participate in cyber war games and stage mock attacks to test their defenses.But few have the resources to build their own training arenas — a gap that security vendors are eager to fill. The companies Cyberbit and SimSpace make custom virtual ranges, and the military contractor Raytheon opened a 30,000-square-foot “live fire” range in 2015 for its customers.Sean McKee, a senior cyber threat manager for TD Bank, visited IBM’s Cambridge range this year and was intrigued enough to plan a two-day training exercise there in December for 40 TD Bank employees.The bank tests its crisis management plans at least once a year, incorporating everyone from front-line responders to its top executives, but its capabilities are less immersive than IBM’s, Mr. McKee said.In IBM’s training game, if an executive bungles a media interview, the range’s TV screens show the company’s stock price plunging as customers fire off angry Tweets. (Clips from Equifax’s widely criticized response to a data breach that exposed sensitive information on more than 145 million people are prominently featured in IBM’s presentation.)“People immediately get to see the results of their actions,” Mr. McKee said. “It gives them a sense that there are other forces at play here and the decisions you make in a moment of crisis are going to have a lasting impact on your organization.”Cybersecurity has become one of corporate America’s most pressing challenges, especially for companies that hold money or sensitive personal details. At least $445 billion was lost last year to cybercrime, a global economic study found, and an estimated 11 billion records have been stolen in data breaches, according to data compiled by the Privacy Rights Clearinghouse.Regulators, lawmakers and corporate customers have responded with more stringent requirements that companies improve their defenses and practice their crisis-response plans for handling significant attacks.“We’ve had growing demand from boards and C-suites, and it’s hard to get those people out to Cambridge,” Mr. Barlow said. “This is a way to bring training to them.”At the debut in Brooklyn, IBM plans to show off its new mobile system at a customer conference. Next week, it will head to the National Mall in Washington for a training event tied to efforts to prevent election hacking, and in November, it’s going to the Rochester Institute of Technology for a national penetration testing competition for college students.IBM is still figuring out exactly what it will do with its new toy. The truck is a fully functional command center, Mr. Barlow said. It could, in theory, be sent to large events — IBM works on cybersecurity for the United States Open and Wimbledon tennis tournaments — to handle real-time threat response.But its main purpose will be training. IBM plans to re-create its Cambridge mock-attack scenarios and build custom exercises for companies looking to test their skills.Mr. McKee, a former Canadian army officer, said that his bank, like many, had responded to escalating threats by increasing the pace and complexity of its training exercises. TD Bank’s session in December at the Cambridge range will mix technical challenges for the bank’s security incident response team with legal, public relations and privacy trials for its top executives.“I always run these exercises with the caveat that this is not a test,” he said. “A test is pass or fail. If you have certain areas where you go down in a flaming ball of fire, that’s a success. You found a critical vulnerability in your response.”

Supported byBy Nicholas BurnsMr. Burns is a former ambassador to NATO.Donald Trump prepared for this week’s NATO summit by doing what no president had done before — making a case that the alliance is a bad deal for the American people. Last week in Great Falls, Mont., he said that he had told Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, “I don’t know how much protection we get by protecting you.” Mr. Trump has been even tougher on the European Union, branding it “as bad as Nafta” and adding, “Sometimes our worst enemies are our so-called friends.”I have visited four European countries during the last two weeks, and it has been shocking to see how far from grace the United States has fallen in the eyes of its allies. European leaders point to Mr. Trump’s support for anti-democratic populists in Hungary, Poland and Italy. They view his recent Twitter attack on Ms. Merkel as a transparent attempt to push her from office.Many fear he may now remove American sanctions against Moscow over its occupation of Crimea after his meeting with President Vladimir Putin of Russia in Finland next week. Confidence in Mr. Trump has plummeted so much that the German foreign minister, Heiko Maas, recently grouped “Donald Trump’s egotistic policy of America First” along with Russia and China as global concerns.None of this, of course, is likely to disturb Mr. Trump, who remains steadfast in his belief that whatever benefits the United States gained from the trans-Atlantic alliance in the past, the country no longer profits. But he’s wrong — there are compelling reasons that NATO in particular will be a distinct advantage for America’s security far into the future.First, NATO’s formidable conventional and nuclear forces are the most effective way to protect North America and Europe — the heart of the democratic world — from attack. Threats to our collective security have not vanished in the 21st century. Mr. Putin remains a determined adversary preying on Eastern Europe and American elections. NATO is a force multiplier: The United States has allies who will stand by us, while Russia has none.And while it’s true that most of America’s NATO allies need to increase their defense spending under the treaty, they’re not freeloaders: The United States has relied on NATO allies to strike back against Al Qaeda in Afghanistan and the Islamic State in the Middle East. European troops have replaced American soldiers in peacekeeping missions in Bosnia and contribute the large majority in Kosovo.Our NATO allies are also getting better about contributing their fair share. They have increased their defense spending by a total of more than $87 billion since Mr. Putin annexed Crimea in 2014. Fourteen more allies will reach NATO’s military spending target — 2 percent of gross domestic product — by 2024. Mr. Trump would be smart to claim credit for this at this week’s summit.A second reason for maintaining the trans-Atlantic alliance is America’s economic future. The European Union is our country’s largest trade partner, and its largest investor. The United States and the European Union are the world’s two largest economies, and can steer global trade to their advantage if they stick together. More than four million Americans work for European companies in the United States. Forty-five of the 50 states export more to Europe than to China.Mr. Trump is right that the two sides are also economic competitors, and trade disputes are inevitable. His predecessors kept this tension in balance lest there be damaging consequences for American businesses, workers and farmers — a good reminder for Mr. Trump, whose ill-conceived trade war with Canada and Europe risks harming the American economy.Third, future American leaders will find Europe is our most capable and willing partner in tackling the biggest threats to global security: climate change; drugand cybercrime cartels; terrorism; pandemics and mass migration from Africa and the Middle East. And America’s NATO allies will continue to be indispensable in safeguarding democracy and freedom, under assault by Russia and China.Mr. Trump’s campaign to undermine the European Union and diminish America’s leadership in NATO serves none of these interests. He seems driven by resentment about European trade surpluses and low defense budgets, issues that blind him to all the other benefits Americans derive from our alliance with Europe and Canada.Mr. Trump may believe his blistering attacks on Europe’s trade policies and defense budgets are a good negotiating tactic before the summit. But in fact they have already done enormous damage. While he cannot outright kill NATO — the American public and Congress support it too strongly — he has eroded significant levels of trust and good will. As it became clear during my recent visits across Europe, a dangerous breach has opened in the trans-Atlantic alliance — by far the worst in seven decades.Mr. Trump wants Americans to believe that their allies are simply taking advantage of them. On Sept. 11, 2001, I witnessed a far different reality as American ambassador to NATO. Canada and the European allies volunteered within hours of the attacks to invoke Article 5 of the NATO treaty, which compels all members to respond to an attack on any single member, for the first time in history. They came to our defense when we most needed them. They sent troops to fight with us in Afghanistan. They are still there with us 17 years later.Are we now going to throw off that mutual protection, and go it alone in a dangerous 21st-century world? That would be a historic mistake. But that is where we may find ourselves if Mr. Trump’s anti-Europe vendetta continues.Nicholas Burns, a former under secretary of state and ambassador to NATO, teaches diplomacy and international relations at Harvard.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 

Supported byBy Glenn ThrushWASHINGTON — In the middle of his crowded dinner in Buenos Aires with President Xi Jinping of China, President Trump leaned across the table, pointed to Robert Lighthizer, the United States trade representative whose skepticism of China runs deep, and declared, “That’s my negotiator!”He then turned to Peter Navarro, his even more hawkish trade adviser, adding, “And that’s my tough guy!” according to aides with knowledge of the exchange.Now, with talks between China and the United States set to begin this week in Beijing, Mr. Lighthizer, aided by Mr. Navarro, faces the assignment of a lifetime: redefining the trade relationship between the world’s two largest economies by Mr. Trump’s March 2 deadline to reach an agreement.And he must do it in a way that tilts the balance of power toward the United States. His approach will have significant ramifications for American companies, workers and consumers whose fortunes, whether Mr. Trump likes it or not, are increasingly tied to China.First, however, Mr. Lighthizer will need to keep a mercurial president from wavering in the face of queasy financial markets, which have suffered their steepest annual decline since 2008. Despite his declaration that trade wars are “easy to win” and his recent boast that he is a “Tariff Man,” Mr. Trump is increasingly eager to reach a deal that will help calm the markets, which he views as a political electrocardiogram of his presidency.Mr. Trump has repeatedly told his advisers that Mr. Xi is someone with whom he can cut a big deal, according to people who have spoken with the president. On Saturday, Mr. Trump called Mr. Xi to discuss the status of talks, tweeting afterward that good progress was being made. “Deal is moving along very well,” Mr. Trump said.The administration has tried to force China to change its ways with stiff tariffs on $250 billion worth of Chinese products, restrictions on Chinese investment in the United States and threats of additional levies on another $267 billion worth of goods. China has responded with its own tit-for-tat tariffs on American goods. But over a steak dinner during the Group of 20 summit meeting in Argentina, Mr. Xi and Mr. Trump agreed to a 90-day truce and to work toward an agreement that Mr. Trump said could lead to “one of the largest deals ever made.”“It’s not some subtle shift; Trump has flipped since September,” said Derek Scissors, who studies China’s economy for the American Enterprise Institute. “He went from saying how he was going to slap tariffs on everything to all this talk about making the greatest deal ever.”Mr. Lighthizer — whose top deputy will meet with Chinese officials this week ahead of more high-level talks in February — has played down any differences with Mr. Trump and views his role as ultimately executing the directive of his boss. But the trade representative, who declined to be interviewed, has told friends and associates that he is intent on preventing the president from being talked into accepting “empty promises” like temporary increases in soybean or beef purchases.Mr. Lighthizer, 71, is pushing for substantive changes, such as forcing China to end its practice of requiring American companies to hand over valuable technology as a condition of doing business there. But after 40 years of dealing with China and watching it dangle promises that do not materialize, Mr. Lighthizer remains deeply skeptical of Beijing and has warned Mr. Trump that the United States may need to exert more pressure through additional tariffs in order to win true concessions.When Mr. Lighthizer senses that anyone — even Mr. Trump — might be going a little soft on China, he opens a paper-clipped manila folder he totes around and brandishes a single-page, easy-reading chart that lists decades of failed trade negotiations with Beijing, according to administration officials.“Bob’s attitude toward China is very simple. He wants them to surrender,” said William A. Reinsch, a former federal trade official who met him three decades ago when Mr. Lighthizer was a young aide for former Senator Bob Dole of Kansas. “His negotiating strategy is simple too. He basically gives them a list of things he wants them to do and says, ‘Fix it now.’”Mr. Trump’s selection of Mr. Lighthizer last month to lead the talks initially spooked markets, which viewed the China skeptic’s appointment as an ominous sign. It also annoyed Chinese officials, who had been talking with the Treasury secretary, Steven Mnuchin, a more moderate voice on trade and the primary point of contact for Liu He, China’s top trade negotiator. Mr. Mnuchin has urged the president to avoid a protracted trade war, even if that entails reaching an interim agreement that leaves some issues unresolved.Mr. Mnuchin, who attended the G-20 dinner, helped Mr. Trump craft an upbeat assessment declaring the Buenos Aires meeting “highly successful” in the presidential limousine back to the airport, according to a senior administration official.The disparate views among Mr. Trump’s top trade advisers have prompted sparring — both publicly and behind the scenes.In late 2017, when Mr. Lighthizer grew concerned that Mr. Mnuchin and Wilbur Ross, the commerce secretary, were wading too far into China matters, he enlisted Rob Porter, the president’s staff secretary at the time, to persuade Mr. Trump to draft a document designating Mr. Lighthizer the main trade emissary to China, according to a person who has seen the letter. Mr. Lighthizer has never used the document to defend his position, the person said, but he considers it an insurance policy of sorts.During an Oval Office meeting with the trade team the fall of 2017, Mr. Lighthizer accused Mr. Mnuchin and Gary D. Cohn, the former National Economic Council director, of bad-mouthing him to free-trade Republican senators.The argument grew so heated that the White House chief of staff, John F. Kelly, quickly pulled the combatants into the nearby Roosevelt Room and away from the president, where the argument raged on for a few more minutes, according to two witnesses.Emily Davis, a spokeswoman for the United States trade representative, disputed the account.Mr. Lighthizer has since worked to increase his own face time with Mr. Trump. He has joked to colleagues that he has more influence with Mr. Trump during winter months because he is able to hitch a ride on Air Force One during the president’s flights down to Mar-a-Lago, which is several miles from Mr. Lighthizer’s own $2.3 million waterfront condo in Palm Beach, Fla.He used that access to argue to Mr. Trump that the United States has never had more leverage to extract structural reforms on intellectual property, forced transfer of technology from American companies and cybercrime. But while Mr. Trump has jumped at the chance to claim victory in changing China’s ways, experts say that what Mr. Lighthizer is demanding would require significant shifts in how Beijing’s central government and its manufacturing sector coordinate their activities, and that might simply not be possible in the short term.“Good luck with that,” Mr. Scissors said.Those who know Mr. Lighthizer say he will try to force concessions through a combination of pressure tactics, like tariffs, and public condemnation. Mr. Lighthizer — who described his own negotiating style as “knowing where the leverage is” during a 1984 interview — typically presents few specific demands during initial talks while publicly bashing efforts by the other side.He used that approach during recent talks with Canada and Mexico to revise the North American Free Trade Agreement, criticizing foreign counterparts as intransigent and characterizing complaints by American businesses as pure greed.Mr. Lighthizer’s unsparing view of China comes, in part, from his childhood in Ashtabula, Ohio, an industrial and shipping town on the Great Lakes hit by the offshoring of steel and chemical production. For much of his career, Mr. Lighthizer was a lonely protectionist voice in a Republican Party dominated by free traders, alternating between jobs in government and a lucrative private law career representing large American corporations like United States Steel in trade cases against China.Mr. Lighthizer found his way into Mr. Trump’s orbit through his work in the steel industry, where he gained prominence by filing lawsuits accusing Japan and China of dumping metals into the United States, in violation of trade laws. In 2011, Mr. Lighthizer caught Mr. Trump’s eye with an opinion piece in The Washington Times, in which he defended Mr. Trump’s approach to China as consistent with conservative ideology and compared the future president to Republican icons like Ronald Reagan.Taciturn in public and self-deprecating in private, Mr. Lighthizer sees himself as a serious player on the world stage: Two recent guests to Mr. Lighthizer’s Georgetown townhouse were greeted by the stern visage of their host staring down at them from an oil portrait on the wall.The trade adviser is guarded around Mr. Trump, often waiting until the end of meetings to make his points and quietly nudging the president away from actions he views as counterproductive, current and former officials said. That was the case in mid-2017 when he cautioned the president against withdrawing unilaterally from the World Trade Organization, adding for emphasis, “And I hate the W.T.O. as much as anybody.”He does not always get his way. In the wake of a new trade agreement with Mexico and Canada this fall, Mr. Lighthizer urged Mr. Trump to consider easing steel and aluminum tariffs on those countries and replacing them with less burdensome quotas. Mr. Trump rejected his plan, according to negotiators from all three countries.A poker-faced Mr. Lighthizer broke the news to his Mexican and Canadian counterparts by declaring the proposal was inoperative, one of the officials said.The president also ignored Mr. Lighthizer’s advice in early December when he announced that he intended to begin the six-month process of withdrawing the United States from Nafta in order to pressure House Democrats into passing the new United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement.That threat undermined months of quiet negotiations between Mr. Lighthizer, labor groups and Democrats like Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio and Representative Nancy Pelosi of California to try to win their support for the new trade deal. Mr. Trump has yet to follow through on his threat, and Mr. Lighthizer continues trying to work with Democrats to get the new trade deal approved.“Bob is trying to provide stability and focus in a completely chaotic environment,” Mr. Brown said. “I can’t speak for Bob, but I am certain he is frustrated. How could you not be frustrated as the U.S. trade representative for a president who knows what his gut thinks but hasn’t put much of his brains into trade?”Alan Rappeport contributed reporting.

Supported byBy Mehreen Zahra-MalikISLAMABAD, Pakistan — Dr. Faisal Ranjha was examining a patient in the crowded critical-care unit of his hospital in northeastern Pakistan when a federal officer abruptly walked in, seized his cellphone and told him he was under arrest.Officers took him home to scoop up his laptop and the tablet computer on which his 8-year-old son was playing games, then drove the doctor more than 150 miles to the Federal Investigation Agency headquarters in Islamabad. Only then was he told why: He stood accused of leading an anti-army information campaign on Twitter.Dr. Ranjha is one of dozens of people arrested and investigated since January for their social media use, under the sweeping cybercrimes law passed by Parliament last year.The law, the Prevention of Electronic Crimes Act, was widely promoted as a tool to punish internet activity by banned militant groups and curb online sexual harassment. But in recent months it has increasingly been used to crack down on those who have gone online with criticism of the government and, particularly, the military.Civil rights advocates, as well as people directly targeted by the authorities, have described actions that included harassment, intimidation, and detention without access to lawyers or family members. In a few cases, physical abuse of those in custody was reported.More subtly, the campaign has also injected a distinct chill into a Pakistani social media scene long known for boldness and rollicking satire.“Many journalists and activists — especially young people who ask important questions or say critical things on Facebook or Twitter — they are going quiet, thinking they can be arrested, or worse,” said Shahzad Ahmad, a director of Bytes for All Pakistan. The group campaigns for internet freedom and has gone to court several times seeking to lift government restrictions in Pakistan.The internet crackdown is happening while the country’s military establishment has been exerting its influence more broadly over media outlets, the courts and politics, even as it has enjoyed widespread popularity with the public. Now, the military seems to feel increasingly empowered to root out even small-scale criticism.Dr. Ranjha insisted that he had never crossed any explicit line with his posts.“I’ve never been part of any anti-army campaign,” Dr. Ranjha said in a telephone interview from his home in the Gujranwala District of Punjab Province. “But yes, my tweets definitely give the impression that democracy in Pakistan is very weak because it is not being allowed to grow stronger, to flourish.”He was freed on May 22 after two days of questioning. But his devices have not been returned, and the Federal Investigation Agency took control of his Twitter account to make it inaccessible.Under the electronic crimes law, investigations are carried out by the Federal Investigation Agency. The agency says it does not monitor, but only follows up on complaints from the Interior Ministry or, more often, from the military and its feared spy agency, Inter-Services Intelligence, or I.S.I.“Monitoring is not our mandate; we get complaints from the interior minister and mostly our intelligence agencies about certain social media profiles, and then we investigate,” said Muhammad Shafique, the head of the F.I.A.’s cybercrime section. “There is coordination between civilian and military agencies; we work together.”The I.S.I. has long been accused of using intimidation, torture and extrajudicial killings against suspected militants, dissidents and journalists. Now it is also able to move indirectly, through the new cybercrimes law and the investigation agency, against dissent, according to officials and rights advocates.An Interior Ministry spokesman said all questions about continuing investigations under the cybercrime law should be directed to the Federal Investigation Agency. An I.S.I. spokesman did not respond to phone calls seeking comment.In May alone, the F.I.A. began investigating more than 200 social media accounts and summoned at least 21 users for questioning about “anti-military posts.” In June, Zafarullah Achakzai from the southern city of Quetta became one of the first reporters to be charged under the electronic crimes law.The number of investigations, and sometimes arrests and fines, began increasing soon after the law’s passage in August 2016. But it was a series of disappearances in January outside the normal workings of the law that greatly increased public fears and outrage over what was increasingly perceived as an unjust crackdown on public expression.That month, at least five activists known for internet posts critical of the military suddenly disappeared. People flocked online to protest and demand the activists’ return. An editorial in the newspaper Dawn called the disappearances “a dark new chapter in the state’s murky, illegal war against civil society.”Four of the five have since returned home. Three promptly left Pakistan. But Samar Abbas, the president of Civil Progressive Alliance Pakistan, a rights group based in Karachi, is still missing.No state agency has accepted responsibility for holding the five men. The army’s media office and the Interior Ministry denied involvement in separate news conferences in January.Three of these activists were administrators of a popular satirical Facebook page called Mochi. The cover photo for the page reads: “We respect Armed Forces of Pakistan as much as they respect the constitution of Pakistan.”One Mochi administrator, who spoke on condition of anonymity out of fears for his family, said he was subjected to torture during his three weeks in I.S.I. custody. The wife of another activist who disappeared in January said that since his return, he had remained so traumatized that he shied away from even his children, and remained mostly shut in his room. She requested that specifics about his case not be published to protect her family’s identity.Another activist who disappeared was Salman Haider, a well-known poet now in exile in the United States. Mr. Haider declined to comment for this article, but shared a harrowing poem about his fear of death while in confinement, and such degradations as being made to use the same bottle to urinate in and drink water from.Rights activists say that the episode gave authorities renewed confidence to go after dissenters ever more openly, culminating in a public announcement in May by the interior minister that criticism of the security forces was forbidden and would be punished.“Officials now realized what an excellent tool they had in their hands to control political expression,” said Mr. Ahmad of Bytes for All Pakistan.Mr. Shafique, the head of the Federal Investigation Agency’s cybercrime section, would not comment on specific cases. But he made it clear that posts disrespectful of Pakistan’s armed forces would not be tolerated.“Freedom of expression within limits is a right, but using abusive language against sacred institutions — that makes a crime,” he said.He added that under the cybercrime law, no one could be arrested without “solid technical evidence” retrieved from electronic devices. He called the existing law “very weak” because it did not even allow the F.I.A. to register a case against an accused person without a court order.“In our country, social media is more free than it is anywhere else in the world,” Mr. Shafique said. “Everyone can say what they want. Who is scared?”But the crackdown has definitely raised fears, with many saying they self-censored their posts rather than risk arrest or any threat against their families.And that, Dr. Ranjha said, was almost surely the point.“Picking me up was a way to send a message to others to straighten up,” he said. “When you are taken away — and you don’t know why, or when you’ll come back — it changes everything.”

Supported byBy Joumana Khatib and Lance BoothHere are the week’s top stories, and a look ahead.1. Senator John McCain died Saturday at his home in Arizona. Mr. McCain, a war hero, lawmaker, two-time presidential contender and maverick, was 81 and had suffered from a malignant brain tumor.A son and grandson of four-star admirals who were his larger-than-life heroes, Mr. McCain carried his renowned name into battle and into political fights for more than a half-century.Mr. McCain will lie in state in the Capitol Rotunda and receive a full dress funeral service at the Washington National Cathedral.Two Republicans familiar with the planning said that Presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama have been asked to offer eulogies at his funeral.And our chief Washington correspondent, Carl Hulse, writes that the Senate becomes a lesser place without Mr. McCain.____2. A head-spinning week of legal deals — and a conviction.On Tuesday, the president’s longtime lawyer and fixer, Michael Cohen, above, pleaded guilty to violating campaign finance laws, and implicated Mr. Trump, too.Mr. Trump lashed out at Mr. Cohen, criticizing him for “flipping,” while praising his former campaign chairman, Paul Manafort, as a “brave man” who refused to “break.”Mr. Manafort was convicted on eight counts of fraud on Tuesday.Later, news of two immunity deals rocked the White House. One was for David Pecker, a tabloid executive close to President Trump who oversees The National Enquirer. The tabloid quashed stories damaging to the Trump campaign. Another was for the Trump Organization’s longtime chief financial officer, Allen Weisselberg.Have you been keeping up with the headlines? Test your knowledge with our news quiz. And here’s the front page of our Sunday paper, and our crossword puzzles.____3. Those developments have left many wondering: What will the special counsel in the Russia inquiry do?Robert Mueller, a lifelong Republican with a by-the-book reputation, faces a number of crucial decisions over the coming months. Will he subpoena the president? Recommend charges? Will he write a public report? Each could help sway the midterm elections and shape the future of the presidency itself.For insight, our reporter looked closely at Mr. Mueller’s four-decade career in public service.____4. Pope Francis is in Ireland, making the first papal visit there in 39 years. Above, he prayed at St. Mary’s cathedral in Dublin.But the specter of the church’s sex abuse scandals is clouding the trip. Many Irish say they are waiting for recognition of their suffering from decades of clerical sex abuse — and action.We are following the visit with live updates, including the accusation by a conservative critic that Francis knew about the abuses of a now-disgraced American prelate, Cardinal Theodore McCarrick, years before they became public.____5. Facebook said it had removed 652 fake accounts, pages and groups that were trying to sow disinformation.The activity originated in Iran and Russia, the company said. Unlike past influence operations on the social network, which largely targeted Americans, the fake accounts, pages and groups were this time also aimed at people in Latin America, Britain and the Middle East, the company said.And for the U.S., there’s a new concern ahead of the midterms: Many of the C.I.A.’s Russian sources have gone silent.____6. Elon Musk reversed course on his plans to take Tesla private.In a statement late Friday, Mr. Musk wrote that “I knew the process of going private would be challenging, but it’s clear that it would be even more time-consuming and distracting than initially anticipated.”People close to Mr. Musk said he realized his thinking had been overly simplistic, and the move would introduce new headaches.Mr. Musk, the company’s chief executive, sent markets — and board members — into a frenzy after tweeting this month that he was considering taking the company private, and had secured funding to do so.____7. Hurricane Lane was downgraded to a tropical storm, but Hawaii still faced “life threatening” flash flooding, the National Weather Service said.The storm is expected to continue weakening, but officials warned that the storm would continue to pose a risk for flooding and could still hurl winds of up to 70 m.p.h.We’re following it live.Separately, the White House unveiled a proposed overhaul of coal plant rules. Among the plan’s more startling costs? The relaxed rules could lead to up to 1,400 more premature deaths and 48,000 more asthma attacks every year, and allow the dirtiest coal plants to stay dirty.____8. Starting a year ago, more than 700,000 Rohingya began fleeing Myanmar to neighboring Bangladesh amid a frenzy of massacre, rape and arson by soldiers and Buddhist mobs.The violence has been condemned by the international community, and on Monday, the U.N. Security Council is scheduled to discuss the ethnic cleansing. But Myanmar’s leaders — including Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, the country’s de facto leader and a Nobel Peace Prize laureate — have escaped international legal censure. And they are maintaining a campaign of denial and avoidance.Our reporter looked into a town administrator who is said to have tortured his Rohingya neighbors — and will most likely never face punishment.____9. A judge rejected key parts of President Trump’s push to make it easier to fire government workers, dealing a blow to Republican efforts to rein in unions.Separately, at an annual meeting this weekend, leaders of the Federal Reserve and other central banks, above, discussed whether corporate consolidation might have broad implications for economic policy.Put simply: The biggest companies may be influencing things like inflation and wage growth, possibly at the expense of central bankers’ power to do so.____10. Ohio State suspended its football coach, Urban Meyer, for three games over his mishandling of domestic violence accusations against an assistant coach.A university report detailed a number of problems linked to the assistant coach, Zach Smith, including promiscuous and embarrassing sexual behavior, drug abuse, and allegations of criminal domestic violence and cybercrimes.Ultimately, the report found no unassailable evidence of a cover-up or that Mr. Meyer “deliberately lied” about his knowledge.He offered a more robust apology on Friday.____11. Finally, a #MeToo leader confronts her own accuser; a memoir from Steve Jobs’s daughter Lisa Brennan-Jobs, above; and the rise of alternative pollinators. We’ve got these stories and more in our Best Weekend Reads.For more suggestions on what to read, watch and listen to, may we suggest these seven new books our editors liked, a glance at the latest recommendations from Watching, or our music critics’ latest playlist.Have a great week.____Your Weekend Briefing is published Sundays at 6 a.m. Eastern.You can sign up here to get our Morning Briefings by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning, or here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.

Supported byBy Jane PerlezSEATTLE — President Xi Jinping pledged in a speech here on Tuesday night to work with the United States on fighting cybercrime, saying that the Chinese government was a staunch defender of cybersecurity. “The Chinese government will not in whatever form engage in commercial theft, and hacking against government networks are crimes that must be punished in accordance with the law and relevant international treaties,” Mr. Xi said in an address to American business executives. At the end of his first day of a state visit to the United States, Mr. Xi told his audience, which also included Chinese business leaders, that “China is ready to set up a high-level joint dialogue mechanism with the United States on fighting cybercrimes.”Here are a few excerpts from President Xi Jinping of China’s speech to business leaders in Seattle on Tuesday night.Mr. Xi appeared to be attempting to reassure his business audience, many of its members from tech industries at the forefront of cyberspace issues, but how far his words would be believed by the Obama administration remained to be seen. At a briefing for reporters in Washington on Tuesday, a senior China adviser to President Obama said that “we won’t paper over those differences,” a reference to cyberspace and economic issues. There would be “very robust discussion” with Mr. Xi, said the adviser, Daniel J. Kritenbrink.Two weeks before Mr. Xi’s arrival, one of his closest aides, Meng Jianzhu, the head of domestic security, visited Washington to deal with the administration’s accusations that China was responsible for massive cyberattacks on American businesses and government agencies. The Chinese deny the administration’s claims.The meetings failed to lead to a concrete agreement that the administration had hoped for on how to deal with such attacks, particularly the theft of trade secrets from American companies that benefit their Chinese competitors, according to a senior administration official.The tone of Mr. Xi’s address across a range of issues was positive, without a jarring word. He refrained from talking about thorny differences with the United States over China’s construction of artificial islands in the South China Sea. On China’s softening economy he sounded a soothing tone, saying that all economies faced difficulties and though China was under downward pressure “this is only a problem in the course of progress.” He also told his audience not to worry about the Chinese stock market, whose sudden plunge over the summer sent shock waves across the world. He defended his government’s intervention, which failed to stop the fall, saying the “government took steps to stabilize the market and contain panic in the stock market and this avoided systemic risk.” As Mr. Xi’s advisers prepared him for his trip to the United States, he was encouraged by several Americans to include some personal themes that would resonate with the audience. He won applause for a line about his anticorruption campaign against government officials not being like the television show “House of Cards.”The audience also appreciated his anecdote about ordering one of Ernest Hemingway’s favorite cocktails, a mojito, when he visited Cuba. The audience included Satya Nadella, the chief executive of Microsoft, and the company’s founder, Bill Gates — they sat on either side of Mr. Xi’s senior adviser, Li Zhanshu — as well as other senior executives whose tech firms have suffered in China from the imposition of new, intrusive security measures, commercial cybertheft and demands for transfers of technology. Mr. Xi addressed some of those concerns with general reassurances but no specifics, saying. “We will address the legitimate concerns of foreign investors in a timely fashion, protect their lawful rights and interests, and work hard to provide an open and transparent legal and policy environment.”The reactions of the business community to Mr. Xi’s promises may become clearer at a high-level tech forum Wednesday, organized by the Chinese in conjunction with Microsoft, and expected to draw 200 executives.Since Mr. Xi came to power three years ago, human rights advocates and lawyers been rounded up and imprisoned, and Chinese nongovernmental organizations have been closed. The Obama administration has called these measures some of the most serious infringements of human rights in China in a long time.On that issue, Mr. Xi sounded a familiar refrain by Chinese officials, saying “we are ready to discuss rule-of-law issues with the U.S. side in a spirit of mutual learning for common progress.”He was more precise about the operations of foreign nonprofits that have come under increasingly restrictive regulations in the last year, offering few concessions. Such groups, he said, “need to obey Chinese law.” In a speech before Mr. Xi spoke, the secretary of commerce, Penny Pritzker, warned him about problems with China’s behavior on cyberspace practices, and seemed to want to disabuse Mr. Xi of an expectation that his meetings in Washington would be smooth going. “We — and our companies — continue to have serious concerns about an overall lack of legal and regulatory transparency, inconsistent protection of intellectual property, discriminatory cyber and technology policies, and more generally, the lack of a level playing field across a range of sectors,” she said.Mr. Xi arrived in Seattle on Tuesday morning on an Air China Boeing 747-400 aircraft, landing at Paine Field adjacent to a Boeing manufacturing complex 30 miles from the city center. He will visit the Boeing plant on Wednesday.Accompanied by his wife, Peng Liyuan, a squadron of aides, senior government officials and nearly two dozen journalists from Chinese state news media, he was welcomed by the governor of Washington, Jay Inslee.He then headed to a downtown hotel to meet with a group of governors from Western states, including Jerry Brown of California. Afterward, he prepared for the dinner, scheduled to begin early to accommodate Jewish guests who wanted to attend prayers marking the start of Yom Kippur at sundown.The Chinese worked hard to front-load Mr. Xi’s trip — his first to the United States as president — with two days of events in Seattle intended to show an upbeat relationship with American business. And in a broad sense it has worked as a show of force to President Obama about the power that China wields, and how much American companies need China even if its policies do not align with Washington’s.Yet frustrations are simmering here. The U.S.-China Business Council, one of the hosts of the dinner, said member confidence about doing business in China has eroded considerably over the past five years.In 2010, 58 percent of executives were optimistic about the business outlook in China, while 33 percent were somewhat optimistic, said John Frisbie, the council’s president. Now just 24 percent are optimistic while 67 percent are somewhat optimistic or neutral.

Supported byBy Mehreen Zahra-MalikISLAMABAD, Pakistan — Fearing that his attackers would spot him from a distance, the investigative journalist Taha Siddiqui threw off his bright red sweater as he jumped into a ditch and crawled through mud and shrubs to reach a highway in the Pakistani city of Rawalpindi.Just minutes earlier, the private taxi that had been taking Mr. Siddiqui, the Pakistan bureau chief of Indian television channel WION, to the airport on Wednesday morning was stopped by around a dozen armed men in plain clothes who had spilled out of a car and pickup truck, he said.The men dragged him from the cab, hitting and kicking him and threatening to shoot him. They ordered the taxi driver out and threw Mr. Siddiqui back into the car.Before the car could move, the journalist jumped out into incoming traffic and got into a yellow cab, he said. But the driver went only a few hundred yards, saying he didn’t want to be involved in “trouble” and asking Mr. Siddiqui to get out.Then it was time to crawl, staying low across a large, muddy lot until he found a worker who agreed to drive him the 10 miles back to Islamabad.The attackers got Mr. Siddiqui’s laptop, data drives, phone, passport and luggage. He got away with his life. But not everyone has.It has been open season on journalists and critics of Pakistan’s military for years now. Disappearances, extrajudicial killings, torture, intimidation — all have been brought to bear, and in the vast majority of cases, no one has ever been brought to justice.Mr. Siddiqui is a prominent critic of the country’s powerful military establishment, and on Wednesday he said he believed that “state agencies” were behind the attack. Human rights investigators frequently accuse the military’s spy agency, Inter-Services Intelligence, or ISI, of being behind attacks or threats against journalists. Often, especially in cases of intimidation, the security officers make no attempt to hide who they are.“This was an attempt to take me away and turn me into a silent statistic,” Mr. Siddiqui said in an interview with The New York Times on Wednesday. “My worry is that the next time they come for me, it could end up in something much worse.”Mr. Siddiqui is a 2014 winner of the Albert Londres Prix award, the French equivalent of the Pulitzer Prize, and has written articles for several international publications, including The New York Times. He has also been become known as a frequent critic of the military on social media.“It is public knowledge that the military establishment is annoyed with Taha’s Twitter activity,” said Iqbal Khattack, the Pakistan representative for Reporters Sans Frontieres. “What has happened is worrisome, but not surprising.”A spokesman for the interior ministry said Interior Minister Ahsan Iqbal had sought an investigation into the attack on Mr. Siddiqui.The media wing of the Pakistani Army declined official comment.One military official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak to the media on the matter, said he doubted the military was behind the attack. He said Mr. Siddiqui had written no articles recently that criticized the army and that it would be “counterproductive” to carry out such an attack based on a handful of objectionable tweets. The officer then scoffed at the idea that Mr. Siddiqui could have escaped an attack by a dozen trained security agents.The threats to journalists and dissidents don’t end with the security agencies. Militants on both sides of the insurgency in  Baluchistan Province, for instance, including sectarian groups who mainly fight on the military’s side of the conflict, are known for some of the most brazen attacks.In the past year, another avenue of threat has been opened up. Under a sweeping new cybercrimes law passed last January, the authorities have also begun warning or prosecuting journalists and online activists. And that same month, at least five activists known for internet posts critical of the military suddenly disappeared. Four have since been returned and live in exile abroad.Civil rights advocates, as well as people directly targeted by the authorities, have described actions under the new cybercrime law that included harassment, intimidation, and detention without access to lawyers or family members. In a few cases, physical abuse of those in custody was reported.Mr. Siddiqui was one of dozens of journalists affected by the law. He was summoned last year by the civilian Federal Investigation Agency to answer for Twitter posts they considered to be critical of the military. Mr. Siddiqui refused to answer the summons unless he was formally charged, and filed a court petition claiming harassment. Hearings in the case continue.Offline, too, it has been a perilous decade for Pakistani journalists.In one of the latest attacks, in October, another investigative journalist and critic of the ISI, Ahmad Noorani, was gravely wounded in Islamabad. In 2014, Hamid Mir, a prominent journalist and talk show host, survived an attempt on his life. In the same year, the Pakistani writer and broadcaster Raza Rumi narrowly survived a gun attack that claimed the life of his driver in the city of Lahore. He now lives in exile in the United States. In 2011, Syed Saleem Shahzad, an investigative journalist, was found dead, leading to accusations that the ISI was involved.“It’s going to get much, much worse,” said Zarrar Khuhro, a popular talk show host with Dawn News. “Regardless of who carried out this attack or others before it, the culprits always go unpunished. So why would the attacks stop?”“Overall, we are looking at a new era of oppression in Pakistani journalism,” he said. “This is the new normal.”Azhar Abbas, the managing director at Geo News, Pakistan’s largest news channel, which has repeatedly come under pressure because of its critical coverage of the military and its support for the civilian government, said it was essential for journalists to come together and put pressure on the government to launch a transparent inquiry.“You can’t physically assault people, or make them disappear for having an opinion,” he said. “As journalists we have to resist these attempts to be silenced and make sure the culprits are caught.”But the attacks are raising fears, causing many to self censor rather than risk arrest or threats against their families.Islamabad’s police superintendent, Syed Mustafa Tanveer, said on Thursday that Mr. Siddiqui’s case was formally under investigation, though he said it was too early to say who the attackers were.“Yesterday, Taha was really shaken, but today we have called him back in to ask some more questions and to help us prepare sketches of the attackers,” Mr. Tanveer said.Mr. Siddiqui said that after reaching the police station on Wednesday, he asked the investigating officer to let him know as soon as anyone was arrested.“When I said that, he just looked right at me and laughed out loud,” Mr. Siddiqui said. “Right to my face.”

Supported byBy Andrew E. KramerMOSCOW — The Russian intelligence officers indicted on Friday by the United States special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, served in a branch of the Russian military formerly known as the G.R.U., which has been linked in recent years to a number of increasingly bold, even reckless operations abroad.The organization is Russia’s largest military intelligence agency and is one of several groups authorized to spy for the Russian government, alongside successor agencies to the K.G.B.Though the G.R.U. has been the target of sanctions by the United States government numerous times, including in connection with hacking in the 2016 presidential election, the indictments filed by Mr. Mueller’s office are the first criminal charges leveled against Russian government officials for election meddling.A previous indictment the financier and employees of a nominally private internet troll farm based in St. Petersburg.Though still commonly referred to as the G.R.U., or Main Intelligence Directorate, the agency in 2010 changed its name to the Main Directorate, or G.U. As before, it is subordinate to the Russian military command.From the shooting down of a civilian airliner over Ukraine to operations in Syria and the United States electoral hacking, the organization’s recent history has been entangled with some of Russia’s most contentious actions, analysts and security researchers say.The indictment unsealed on Friday singled out two signals intelligence -units focused on computer espionage — one based near Gorky Park in central Moscow and the other in an outlying district near a shopping mall.“These units conducted large-scale cyber operations to interfere with the 2016 U.S. presidential election,” according to the indictment.One officer identified in the indictment, Viktor B. Netyksho, the leader of a unit that hacked the Democratic National Committee, has the same name as an individual who for years studied computer science and published an academic thesis and at least one scientific paper.The 2003 thesis was presented to an academy affiliated with the F.S.B., Russia’s domestic intelligence agency, that studies cryptography. It related to a field of mathematics known as nonlinear Boolean algebra.United States intelligence agencies had already concluded “with high confidence” that the G.R.U. created an online persona called Guccifer 2.0 and a website, DCLeaks.com, to release emails stolen from the Democratic National Committee and the chairman of the Clinton campaign, John D. Podesta, before the 2016 presidential election.The G.R.U. chief, Igor V. Korobov, and three of his deputies were the first Russian officials to face sanctions by the Obama administration in December 2016, for interfering in the elections. In March, the Treasury Department announced new sanctions against the G.R.U. and Mr. Korobov.An indictment from the special counsel investigating Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election explains how 12 Russian intelligence officers hacked the Democratic National Committee and Hillary Clinton’s campaign.The initial sanctions under the Obama administration also targeted a deputy commander of the G.R.U., Sergei A. Gizunov. Not mentioned at the time was Mr. Gizunov’s ties to a group within the G.R.U., Unit 26165, that the Friday indictment described as pivotal in the hacking of the Democratic National Committee.Mr. Gizunov was a former commander of this unit, according to a 2009 report in a government newspaper, Rossiyskaya Gazeta, that announced Mr. Gizunov had won a state prize in science.On Friday, Michael McFaul, a former United States ambassador to Russia, wrote on Twitter: “I’m very impressed that Mueller was able to name the 12 GRU officers in the new indictment. Demonstrates the incredible capabilities of our intelligence community.”The United States Congress has also had its sights on Russian military intelligence. In August 2017, it expanded the Obama administration sanctions to target two additional military intelligence officers in a sanctions bill.The agency, according to a Treasury Department statement, has been “directly involved in interfering in the 2016 U.S. election through cyber-enabled activities,” as well as a 2017 NotPetya cyber attack, which caused billions of dollars in losses across Europe, Asia and the United States, disrupted global shipping and trade, and knocked several major hospitals offline.Inside Russia, one of the two units cited in Friday’s indictment, Unit 26165, had a reputation as an elite group. In 2016, Vzglyad, an online news portal, described members of the unit as being “able to decipher any code within three minutes and re-encrypt it without breaking away from writing a doctoral dissertation on quantum physics.”The European Union sanctioned a key Russian identified as a G.R.U. officer in relation to Russia’s military incursion in eastern Ukraine under the guise of patriotic volunteers. Igor V. Girkin, under the nickname Igor Strelkov, or Igor the Shooter, led the seizure of the Ukrainian town of Slovyansk in 2014.Bellingcat, a group conducting open source research on the Ukrainian conflict, has identified the Russian military officer who shot down Malaysia Airline flight 17 in 2014 as a member of the G.R.U.Earlier this year, the United States imposed sanctions against the G.R.U. for violating the Iran, North Korea, and Syria Nonproliferation Act, which prohibits entities from providing equipment or technology that can be used in manufacturing weapons of mass destruction or ballistic missile systems. This is likely for operations in Syria, where G.R.U. commandos, or Spetsnaz, have been instrumental in the fight against the Islamic State and played a critical role in regaining cities like Aleppo and Palmyra for the Assad government.Like the Spetsnaz, the military’s signals intelligence units have a storied history stretching deep into the Cold War.A Russian history book, “Security Systems of the U.S.S.R.,” published in 2013, identified the origins of Unit 26165 in the Cold War, when it was established as a signals decrypting office for the Soviet military. The unit, according to this history, was based in the same building identified in the indictments released on Friday as its base today, in central Moscow.Mr. Gizunov’s name also surfaced as a central figure in a recent dispute between military intelligence and the main successor agency to the K.G.B., the F.S.B. It is an old rivalry that re-appeared during the electoral hack, Crowd Strike, the cyber security company hired by the Democratic Party, has suggested. Crowd Strike reported that both military intelligence and the F.S.B. hacked the DNC servers, possibly without knowledge of the others’ actions.A year later, in 2017, Mr. Gizunov, the former director of Unit 26165, used military intelligence agents to unravel a F.S.B. cyber operation that had focused on Ukraine and domestic issues, Russian media have reported. The military agents reportedly disclosed links between a cybercrime ring known as Shaltai-Boltai, or Humpty Dumpty, and the F.S.B.’s cyber unit, the Center for Information Security.An earlier version of this article referred incorrectly to an area of mathematics. It is nonlinear Boolean algebra, not “nonlinear, or Boolean, equations.”Follow Andrew E. Kramer on Twitter: @AndrewKramerNYTMichael Schwirtz, Sophia Kishkovsky and Lincoln Pigman contributed reporting.

Supported byBy Alan FeuerFederal prosecutors in Manhattan investigating possible financial improprieties by the disgraced movie mogul Harvey Weinstein have broadened their inquiry to include allegations that he may have violated federal stalking laws, several people with knowledge of the matter said on Wednesday.The expansion of the inquiry, first reported by The Wall Street Journal, added to the legal risks facing Mr. Weinstein. For several months, local prosecutors in Manhattan and Los Angeles, and the police in London, have been investigating accusations that he sexually assaulted numerous women; none of those investigations have led to criminal charges. Mr. Weinstein has also been accused in several civil lawsuits of sexual and physical assault and of waging smear campaigns against his accusers.The federal investigation started late last year when prosecutors from the United States attorney’s office in Manhattan began to examine whether Mr. Weinstein had committed fraud when he arranged for two auction items — a sitting with a famous fashion photographer and a package of tickets to a Hollywood awards event and party — to be offered together at an AIDS charity fund-raiser in France in May 2015. There was one condition to the deal, said people with knowledge of the matter: $600,000 of the proceeds had to go to a theater staging a Broadway musical that Mr. Weinstein was producing.According to the people familiar with the case, that investigation, which is being handled by the Complex Frauds and Cybercrime Unit of the Manhattan federal prosecutors’ office, quickly expanded to include the possibility that Mr. Weinstein broke federal stalking laws in his dealings with women who have accused him of sexual assault. Those laws forbid crossing state lines to kill, injure, harass or intimidate victims.What specific conduct is under scrutiny by federal investigators was not disclosed by the people who confirmed the expanded inquiry. Under federal stalking statutes, prosecutors do not need to prove that a sex crime was committed in order to win a conviction.Mr. Weinstein’s lawyer, Benjamin Brafman, said on Wednesday that he had met with federal prosecutors in what he called “an attempt to dissuade them from proceeding” with the inquiry. Mr. Brafman added that he would have more meetings with the prosecutors in the weeks to come and he said that Mr. Weinstein had not committed any crimes.“Mr. Weinstein has always maintained that he has never engaged in nonconsensual acts,” Mr. Brafman said.As part of their investigation, federal agents have traveled to London and Los Angeles to interview witnesses, including women who say they were abused by Mr. Weinstein, the people with knowledge of the case said. The agents were in California in late April and early May, the people said, at the same time that investigators from the Manhattan district attorney’s office, were also there conducting interviews for their own investigation.After presiding as a king in Hollywood for decades, Mr. Weinstein’s reputation was shattered in October when The New York Times and The New Yorker published articles containing the accounts of several women — movie stars and former employees of the Weinstein Company among them — who claimed that Mr. Weinstein had sexually abused and assaulted them, then paid or coerced them to be silent. The articles ignited a wave of public outrage that renewed attempts to bring Mr. Weinstein to justice.The expansion of the federal inquiry in Manhattan does not mean that the local ones have ended. The office of the Manhattan district attorney, Cyrus R. Vance Jr., is continuing its investigation into a sexual assault allegation by the actress Paz de la Huerta, who alleges that Mr. Weinstein raped her twice in her apartment in late 2010. Prosecutors in his office are also looking into an accusation, first reported in The New Yorker, that Mr. Weinstein forced a student actress, Lucia Evans, to perform oral sex on him during a business meeting at his office in 2004.As part of his inquiry, Mr. Vance’s office has convened what is known as an investigatory grand jury to examine the accusations, and several witnesses have testified, according to two people with knowledge of the proceedings.Prosecutors typically use investigatory grand juries, which can issue subpoenas and which sit for weeks or months, to delve into complicated or politically sensitive cases, like police shootings. The jurors develop more expertise in the intricacies of the case than jurors on a regular grand jury, which might handle several criminal cases in a day.Mr. Vance’s assistants have been investigating not only the complaints of women who say Mr. Weinstein forced them to have sex with him, but also the possibility he misused company funds to pay hush money to his accusers or to intimidate them in other ways, several people with knowledge of the investigation said.“Our investigation is in an advanced stage,” Danny Frost, a spokesman for Mr. Vance, said on Wednesday.A spokesman for the United States attorney’s office in Manhattan declined to comment on the federal investigation.Mr. Weinstein is also confronting considerable pressure from civil suits. In February, the New York attorney general’s office filed a lawsuit against him and his brother Robert, alleging they had repeatedly violated state and city laws barring gender discrimination, sexual harassment, sexual abuse and coercion.An earlier version of this article referred incorrectly to two sources who said several witnesses had testified before an investigatory grand jury looking into allegations of sexual assault against Harvey Weinstein. The sources were people with knowledge of the grand jury proceedings, not people who had testified before the grand jury.William K. Rashbaum and James C. McKinley Jr. contributed reporting.Follow Alan Feuer on Twitter: @alanfeuer

In Seattle, the talk was of cooperation. In a speech to American business leaders Tuesday night, China’s president, Xi Jinping, pledged to work with the United States to prevent cybercrime. Mr. Xi’s long-anticipated visit comes over increased tensions over what White House officials say has been a concerted effort by China to attack the computer networks of businesses and government agencies.“The Chinese government will not in whatever form engage in commercial theft, and hacking against government networks are crimes that must be punished in accordance with the law and relevant international treaties,â Mr. Xi said.But in Washington, the talk was all about cybertheft. The Office of Personnel Management said on Wednesday that the hackers who stole a large amount of data from the agency also got the fingerprints of 5.6 million federal employees. Intelligence agencies have attributed the hacking to China. The agency had earlier said that 1.1 million fingerprints were stolen.The fear is that the stolen material could be used to create a reference database of intelligence agents or defense personnel. Even though some financial information was stolen, officials say there is so far no indication that it has been used in any thefts.Mr. Xi is expected to arrive in Washington on Thursday.Follow

Supported byBy Andrew E. KramerMOSCOW — The Russian spam kingpin had long been in the cross hairs of the F.B.I., and agents finally got their shot when the man scheduled a vacation in Spain. At the agency’s request, Spanish security officers in April arrested the man, Pyotr Y. Levashov, who is accused of stuffing untold millions of inboxes with ads for pornography, pills and penny stocks.But then the Russian authorities sprang a trap of their own, filing an extradition request with the Spanish authorities for a crime they said Mr. Levashov had committed in Russia years ago. Currently, he is languishing in a Spanish jail, but soon the authorities will have to decide which extradition request to honor: the United States’ or Russia’s.This was by no means the first time that Russia had filed a competing extradition request. Far-fetched as it may seem, the Russians’ tactic has in several instances prevented Russians suspected of being computer criminals from being deported to the United States while detained in Europe.The tactic has raised suspicions that the Russian authorities are more interested in derailing American investigations and possibly protecting criminals they find useful than they are in fighting cybercrime.“People always ask me about this,” Timofey S. Musatov, a Moscow lawyer whose Russian client is the subject of competing extradition requests. “It’s the most common question.”In Mr. Levashov’s case, Russian prosecutors sought his extradition after his detention in Spain when they discovered in August that he had hacked the computers of a hospital in St. Petersburg, Russia, in 2014.Three similar cases are pending in courts in Greece, Spain and the Czech Republic. In two of the three, either the defendants’ lawyers or relatives have said that their cases have some bearing on the investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 election in the United States. While that may be true, they have not provided any proof.Their theory is that with the politically charged atmosphere in the United States over the election meddling, the accused could not possibly get a fair trial there, so they should be returned to Russia.In accordance with extradition treaties in all three countries, Russian lawyers say, the decision about where to send the accused resides with a government minister. That opens the prospect of the United States’ being powerless to stop the return to Russia of a suspect who may be able to offer valuable information on Russian meddling in the election.The Greek police detained Mr. Musatov’s client, Aleksandr V. Vinnik, on an American warrant that accuses him of running a Moscow-based Bitcoin exchange, BTC-e, that laundered as much as $4 billion in illegal funds. Russian prosecutors filed an extradition request on a fraud charge.The Russian case, Mr. Musatov said, surfaced soon after Mr. Vinnik’s detention in Athens, possibly because the Russian police had read about his client in news reports and decided to investigate him.“I’m a procedural lawyer who works with documents and law,” he said. “I don’t work in the category of conspiracy theories.” Mr. Vinnik has no known links to election hacking, he said.Another of Mr. Musatov’s clients, Dmitry O. Zubakha, who at the request of the United States was detained in Cyprus in 2012 on suspicion of hacking Amazon, was successfully extradited to Russia.“This norm is in effect everywhere,” said Vladimir V. Makeyev, a lawyer for another Russian cybercrime suspect, Yevgeny A. Nikulin, who was detained in Prague while on vacation with his girlfriend.The United States accuses Mr. Nikulin of hacking the computers of LinkedIn, Dropbox and Formspring. Russia filed an extradition request after a computer intrusion and online theft that occurred in 2010 but came to light only after his detention in the Czech Republic.Mr. Makeyev argues that the United States is seeking Mr. Nikulin’s cooperation in the election-hacking investigation and that an F.B.I. agent from the San Francisco field office, Jeffrey Miller, traveled to Prague to offer asylum in exchange for testimony. The F.B.I. has said the agent was there only to read Mr. Nikulin his rights, and it remains unclear how he may have been connected to election hacking.Why Russians suspected of hacking travel to countries that may detain them on United States extradition warrants is something of a mystery. “Once the money starts coming in, they enjoy a good lifestyle,” said John Reid, a senior researcher with Spamhaus, a spam tracking group based in London.Perhaps impunity at home creates a false sense of security. “We’ll see pictures of them sitting around with gold and fancy Western cars and guns. That kind of gives a profile” of high-rolling Russian hackers, he said.One theory for the travel, he said, is the “girlfriend effect”: “You are a little hacking nerd and now you have a good-looking girlfriend, and it gets cold in Russia, and she says, ‘It’s cold; I hate it here,’ and it wears him down, so he goes somewhere sunny, and that’s it.”Mr. Levashov, too, has claimed a political motivation for his arrest in Barcelona last spring, though a federal indictment unsealed in Connecticut charges him only with eight counts of computer-related crime and fraud. Mr. Levashov’s wife, Maria, said in an interview that the Spanish police had told her the arrest was “related to the election.”The American indictment asserts that Mr. Levashov, using the nickname Peter Severa, or Peter of the North, ran a spam operation powered by a sophisticated, evolving family of computer viruses called Waledac, and later Kelihos. Mr. Levashov’s nickname may be derived from his northern hometown, St. Petersburg, or the name of a porn movie star, referring to the pornography promoted by spam email.Mr. Levashov told a Spanish court that the case should be viewed politically because he had worked for United Russia, a political party that backs President Vladimir V. Putin, and he is an army officer with access to Russian classified information.“I collected different information about opposition parties and delivered it to the necessary people at the necessary time,” Mr. Levashov told the court, referring to Russian opposition parties, according to the Russian Information Agency.In an online chat room for hackers years earlier, using the nickname Peter Severa, Mr. Levashov had gone further, suggesting that he had enlisted in a broad recruitment effort by the Russian government, begun about four years ago, to engage students, computer professionals and criminals in government hacking teams, sometimes called science squadrons.“Good day,” he wrote. “My name is Peter Severa. Many people know me for my service distributing email.” But “everything is in flux, everything changes, and the time has come for me to change the direction of my work.”He said he had a new role: The Federal Security Service, known as the F.S.B., had appointed him to lead a group of hackers who would work for the security service, which he called a “special battalion for information security.”Michael Schwirtz contributed reporting from St. Petersburg, Russia.

Supported byBy The New York TimesUrban Meyer, the highly successful head coach of the Ohio State football team, has been suspended without pay for three games after a university investigation found fault with the way he handled the case of Zach Smith, an assistant coach who was accused of domestic violence. [RELATED: Ohio State Gives Urban Meyer a 3-Game Suspension]The investigation’s findings, made public late Wednesday night, detail Smith’s behavior and the university leadership’s knowledge and reaction to that behavior. Here are the highlights:On Aug. 1, the independent journalist Brett McMurphy published an article detailing Meyer’s knowledge of a 2015 domestic violence allegation against Zach Smith.Upon seeing this report when it first came out (at about 10:17 a.m.), Brian Voltolini, who was on the practice field with Coach Meyer, went to speak with him, commenting that this was “a bad article.” The two discussed at that time whether the media could get access to Coach Meyer’s phone, and specifically discussed how to adjust the settings on Meyer’s phone so that text messages older than one year would be deleted.The lack of clarity surrounding this issue is compounded by the failure of O.S.U. personnel to respond promptly to two July 25, 2018, records requests from the school paper, The Lantern, for emails and text messages, as well as any call history, between Urban Meyer and Zach Smith from July 18, 2018, through July 24, 2018, and between Oct. 25, 2015, and Dec. 1, 2015, and the same communications between A.D. Gene Smith and Coach Meyer for the same dates for any materials “pertaining to Zach Smith.” On July 25, 2018, these requests were forwarded to Julie Vannatta, Senior Associate General Counsel, who, on July 25, emailed A.D. Smith, and Diana Sabau, Senior Associate Athletics Director, and instructed them to retrieve responsive emails and texts from Coach Meyer’s phone. On July 26, Vannatta asked Amy Nicol, Director, Internal Operations for Football, and Brian Voltolini to “go get [Coach Meyer’s] phone and check his texts with Zach.” Although all of these individuals were aware of the requests — and indeed both A.D. Smith and Sabau responded that they had no documents on their end — no one appears to have actually checked Coach Meyer’s phone or even approached him about the requests. At the Big Ten media days last month, Meyer told reporters he had only heard about the 2015 incident the day before, when in fact he had learned of it at the time and several officials had discussed with him the day before how to field questions regarding it.We accept that in July 2018 Coach Meyer was deeply absorbed in football season and wanted to focus on football at Big Ten Media Days. The firing of Zach Smith the day before — the first time Coach Meyer had fired a coach — was also on his mind, as was the erroneous media report of a felony arrest of Zach Smith in 2015. We also learned during the investigation that Coach Meyer has sometimes had significant memory issues in other situations where he had prior extensive knowledge of events. He has also periodically taken medicine that can negatively impair his memory, concentration, and focus. All of these factors also need to be considered and weighed in assessing Coach Meyer’s mind-set on July 24.Because they believed Zach Smith’s denials and because there was no charge or arrest in connection with the 2015-2016 events, neither Coach Meyer nor A.D. Smith believed that there had been a violation or a potential violation of the law and therefore neither had reporting obligations regarding what they knew about the law enforcement investigation of Zach Smith. In addition, Coach Meyer, because he was first informed of the 2015-2016 investigation by A.D. Smith, believed that he had no further reporting obligations.In assessing their reporting obligations, both Coach Meyer and A.D. Smith placed heavy reliance on the absence of formal law enforcement or court action. Neither made any report of the matter to Athletic Compliance or University Compliance for consideration of whether an internal investigation should be conducted.We find it more likely that only Zach Smith met with Coach Meyer in 2009, and that Courtney Smith likely did not recant her allegations of abuse at that time to Urban or Shelley Meyer, although it is clear that Courtney Smith decided not to pursue charges and that none were ever filed. Coach Meyer and Shelley Meyer took away from the 2009 events that Courtney Smith was not being entirely truthful when she called 911 to have Zach arrested.In May 2014, in connection with an out-of-town recruiting trip to Florida, Zach Smith ran up a significant bill at a local strip club along with another O.S.U. football coach and one or more high school coaches.Coach Meyer became aware of this incident, although he maintains not the amount of the expenditure, and reprimanded Zach Smith, warning him that if it happened again, he would be fired; Coach Meyer also revised the 2014 Coaches’ Manual to include a “morality clause” instructing staff to “[a]void strip clubs or venues that would embarrass The Ohio State University” and prohibiting “pornography . . . on any university issued computer, phone, IPad, etc.” Coach Meyer did not, however, report this incident to Athletic Compliance. We identified a pattern of troubling behavior by Zach Smith: promiscuous and embarrassing sexual behavior, drug abuse, truancy, dishonesty, financial irresponsibility, a possible N.C.A.A. violation, and a lengthy police investigation into allegations of criminal domestic violence and cybercrimes.During and after his divorce proceedings in 2015 and early 2016, Zach Smith’s job performance suffered, and he was regularly late to practice and workouts; on other occasions, Zach Smith failed to appear at scheduled recruiting visits at various high schools, despite reporting internally that he had.During this same period, as recent news reports have noted and other information shows, Zach Smith was: (1) engaged in a sexual relationship with a secretary on the football staff who did not report to him; (ii) took sexually explicit photographs of himself in the O.S.U. football facilities and at other locations, including at the White House on a team visit in April 2015 after winning the 2014 National Championship; and (iii) had sex-related toys delivered to him at the O.S.U. athletics facilities.Meyer’s cherished relationship with Earle Bruce may also have diminished his ability to clearly process and assess the severity of Zach’s problems or to appropriately discipline him, despite numerous red flags raised by Zach’s behavior over the years. Meyer told us that his primary reason for firing Zach Smith was because he failed to bring both the order of protection and the criminal trespass matters to his attention, and instead Meyer heard about them from news and social media reports; Coach Meyer considered these failures to be violations of the core value of honesty. In addition, Coach Meyer considered the domestic violence civil protection order to be the first actual evidence that Zach Smith had engaged in domestic violence, even though Zach Smith continues to deny it and is contesting the order.

Supported byBy Mark Mazzetti and Katie BennerWASHINGTON — The mandate given to Robert S. Mueller III and his team was broad: to investigate not just Russian election interference but also any related crimes they might unearth. So when this group of seasoned prosecutors began rooting around Washington, they pounced on a ripe target — lobbyists taking millions of dollars from foreign governments.At the trial of Paul Manafort, an unflattering picture has emerged of lawyers, lobbyists and consultants from both political parties winning big paydays for work on behalf of a Kremlin-aligned former Ukrainian strongman. Some spent the money on cars and homes, prosecutors said, and a jacket made of ostrich for Mr. Manafort.The vigor with which Mr. Mueller has investigated the flows of foreign money from Ukraine, Turkey and other countries into Washington could be as much a part of his legacy as special counsel as whatever he discovers about possible collusion between Russia and the Trump campaign or presidential obstruction of justice.The Manafort case is part of a broader inquiry into the lucrative work done on behalf of the former president of Ukraine, Viktor F. Yanukovych, and Mr. Mueller has handed some elements of the investigation to prosecutors in Manhattan. Beyond the special counsel’s office, the Justice Department has also recently been pursuing foreign influence cases with greater urgency.All of this has prompted lobbyists to hunt for advice about how to comply with laws governing that sphere, long viewed as toothless. “The phone rings much more often with this question than it did two years ago,” said Tom Spulak, a partner at the King &amp; Spalding law firm who advises on lobbying compliance.Over the past year, Mr. Mueller and the Justice Department have pursued numerous cases both under the Foreign Agents Registration Act, or FARA, and related to foreign influence operations more broadly. FARA prosecutions were once almost unheard-of, according to a Justice Department inspector general report: For nearly a half-century, from 1966 until 2015, the department pursued only seven.In addition to Mr. Manafort, the recent cases include the special counsel’s indictments against Russians who disseminated stolen information and used disinformation to influence how Americans perceived the candidates in the 2016 presidential election. Also among them is the complaint against Maria Butina, the Russian accused of acting as a foreign agent and plotting to gain Republican support for pro-Russia policies.Even the case against Michael T. Flynn, Mr. Trump’s former national security adviser, included allegations that he had lied to investigators about lobbying work he did on behalf of the Turkish government.Taken together, the cases shine a light on foreign influence operations that have become deeply embedded in Washington, and the culture of lobbyists who get rich helping their foreign clients affect how laws and policies are made in the capital.To be sure, federal law enforcement officials took a more aggressive stance on foreign influence before the appointment of Mr. Mueller. They increased enforcement of FARA as part of a move to do “everything we could to meet the counterintelligence mission of the Justice Department,” said David Laufman, the former chief of the department’s counterintelligence and export control section who oversaw the enforcement surge.The department began to write more aggressively worded letters to lobbyists seeking information about their work. After receiving letters of inquiry from the Justice Department last year, four Russian news media companies, including RIA Global and RTTV America, have registered as agents of a foreign principal under FARA. In retaliation, Russia passed a law to designate international news media companies as foreign agents.But because of the intense attention it has drawn, Mr. Mueller’s investigation shined a spotlight on the waves of foreign money washing through American politics in a way that the other Justice Department efforts never could.The number of new primary FARA registrations grew to 102 in 2017 from 69 in 2016, and was on pace to rise again in 2018, according to figures from the Justice Department published by the law firm Holland &amp; Knight.The first days of Mr. Manafort’s trial offered exhibit after exhibit of this lavish world, beginning with his extravagant purchases, including cars, Persian rugs and expensive clothes.It also revealed bipartisan largess. One 2014 email presented in court on Tuesday showed the Democratic consultant Thomas A. Devine proposing a “day rate” of $10,000 to do work in Ukraine on behalf of Mr. Yanukovych, the Russia-aligned former president who was a longtime client of Mr. Manafort.“You would need to make the travel arrangements, and transfer the $50G before the trip,” he wrote to Rick Gates, Mr. Manafort’s partner for the Ukraine work. “If you want me to come on Monday and leave Thursday it would be $40G.”Mr. Devine, who is known as Tad, went on to become the chief strategist for the presidential campaign of Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, a self-proclaimed democratic socialist.In addition to the investigations of Mr. Manafort and Mr. Gates, who pleaded guilty in February to numerous financial crimes and became a cooperating witness in the special counsel investigation, Mr. Mueller’s team pursued three other investigations into lawyers and lobbyists who did work in Ukraine.The cases involve Gregory B. Craig, who served as the White House counsel under President Barack Obama before leaving to work for the law firm Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher &amp; Flom; Tony Podesta, an influential Washington lobbyist whose brother, John D. Podesta, was chairman of Hillary Clinton’s presidential campaign; and former Representative Vin Weber, Republican of Minnesota, who joined the lobbying firm Mercury Public Affairs after leaving Congress.None have been charged with any crimes. Mr. Mueller’s referral of those cases several months ago to federal prosecutors in New York was revealed in news reports on Tuesday.Whereas the public once thought of the Justice Department’s counterintelligence mission as primarily trying to catch foreign spies seeking to obtain government secrets, the department has made clear in a recent cybercrimes report and congressional testimony that influence has become as great a threat.The government’s case against Ms. Butina, which was not brought under FARA, could be a template for future prosecutions, said a former Justice Department official, who predicted they could spread to influence peddling from Eastern Europe and China as well as Russia.Ms. Butina was charged with acting as a Russian agent, a more serious crime than a typical FARA violation. The charge allowed prosecutors to impanel a grand jury and issue subpoenas to subjects of investigations — tools not available in most FARA inquiries. Bills to give the Justice Department the power to compel records in FARA cases are sitting in Congress but have gained little traction.The lobbying industry last faced intense scrutiny after the Republican lobbyist Jack Abramoff was caught up in a sprawling corruption and bribery investigation. He went to jail in 2006 for fraud. That case put a temporary chill on the industry, and some Washington lobbyists made up for lost business with foreign clients trying to exert influence on American politicians.The Justice Department will continue to pursue foreign influence operations inside the United States, the deputy attorney general, Rod J. Rosenstein, vowed last month.Russian schemes to influence the presidential election, he said, are “just one tree in a growing forest.”Kenneth P. Vogel and Adam Goldman contributed reportingFollow Mark Mazzetti and Katie Benner on Twitter: @MarkMazzettiNYT and @ktbenner.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.

Supported byBy Al BakerUtah’s chief law enforcement officer was deep in the fight against opioids when he realized that a lack of data on internet sales of fentanyl was hindering investigations. So the officer, Keith D. Squires, the state’s public safety commissioner, created a team of analysts to track and chronicle online distribution patterns of the drug.In Philadelphia, hidebound ways of confronting iPhone thefts let thrive illicit networks to distribute stolen cellphones. Detectives treated each robbery as an unrelated street crime — known as “apple picking” — rather than a vast scheme with connected channels used by thieves to sell the stolen phones.And in Nashville, investigators had no meaningful statistics on a nasty new swindle of the digital age: the “cheating husband” email scheme. In it, anonymous extortionists mass-email large numbers of men, threatening to unmask their infidelities. The extortionists have no idea if the men have done anything wrong, but enough of them are guilty, it turns out, that some pay up, sometimes with Bitcoin.Each case demonstrates how the tools used to fight crime and measure crime trends in the United States are outdated. Even as certain kinds of crimes are declining, others are increasing — yet because so many occur online and have no geographic borders, local police departments face new challenges not only fighting them, but also keeping track of them. Politicians often promote crime declines without acknowledging the rise of new cybercrimes.Detectives only learned of the “cheating husband” scheme from faithful spouses who were not victims. The crime did not fit into any existing category, and since the police had made no arrests, they had no statistics to feed to a national crime database in Washington that can prepare other jurisdictions for the scheme.“Suspects take advantage, knowing that ‘Hey, I’m basically committing crimes blindly,’ without the fear of prosecution,” said Capt. Jason M. Reinbold, commander of the Metropolitan Nashville Police Department’s criminal investigations division. “And I can’t analyze something if I don’t have data.”Many of the offenses are not even counted when major crimes around the nation are tallied. Among them: identity theft; sexual exploitation; ransomware attacks; fentanyl purchases over the dark web; human trafficking for sex or labor; revenge porn; credit card fraud; child exploitation; and gift or credit card schemes that gangs use to raise cash for their traditional operations or vendettas.In a sense, technology has created an extraordinary moment for industrious criminals, increasing profits without the risk of street violence. Digital villainy can be launched from faraway states, or countries, eliminating physical threats the police traditionally confront. Cyberperpetrators remain unknown. Law enforcement officials, meanwhile, ask themselves: Who owns their crimes? Who must investigate them? What are the specific violations? Who are the victims? How can we prevent it?“It’s incredibly challenging,” the police chief in Tucson, Chris Magnus, said. “There’s such a lack of clarity.”The rise of the crimes flies in the face of the proclamations of politicians who declare crime an all but defeated societal ill.“You have to go back to the 1950s to see crime this low,” Bill de Blasio, New York City’s second-term Democratic mayor, said recently on MSNBC’s “Morning Joe.” His comments reflected last year’s historically low numbers of murders and shootings, burglaries, robberies and auto thefts — offenses measured by the police CompStat tracking program.But to many criminologists, academics and law enforcement leaders, crimes like car theft are anachronisms in a modern era in which the internet’s virtual superhighways have supplanted brick-and-mortar streets as the scenes for muggings, prostitution rings or commercial burglaries. They see dips in traditional violence and larceny as offset by a twin phenomenon: A surge in the evolving crimes of the digital era, and the fact that they are not fully captured in law enforcement’s reporting systems.“It’s the old iceberg metaphor,” said Nola Joyce, a former deputy commissioner of Philadelphia’s police department. “What we know about is above the surface. But in terms of value, and in terms of harm, a lot of that crime is below the surface.”“There’s an old saying that came out of the Vietnam War,” she added, “that said, `If you can’t measure what matters, what you measure matters a great deal.”Ms. Joyce is working with others on a panel of the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine, to modernize local and federal crime-classification systems.New solutions are a priority, too, for the Federal Bureau of Investigation and progressive police commanders. They say that without timely, accurate data on crime, criminal justice leaders cannot see and respond coherently to national trends or make informed policy and spending decisions or tailor deployment strategies to best battle them.As Chuck Wexler, the executive director of the Police Executive Research Forum, a Washington-based research group that has studied the issue, put it: “The problem is, to use an overused expression, `You don’t know what you don’t know,’ and by that I mean we don’t know the extent of these incidents in our communities or from a national perspective.”Indeed, an Internet Crime Complaint Center established by the F.B.I. in 2000, to capture internet crime, received 298,728 complaints in 2016, reflecting $1.3 billion in combined losses, according to a new report by Mr. Wexler’s group. But Donna Gregory, the head of the center, said that number of complaints only represented about 10 to 12 percent of all estimated cybercrime victims in the United States in 2016, and a fraction of all victims worldwide. In fact, a single category of internet crime — identify theft — generated $15.4 billion in losses in 2014, according to a crime victimization survey by the federal Bureau of Justice Statistics.In its report, Mr. Wexler’s group said its findings represented a wake-up call for the nation’s 18,000 policing agencies facing an increase in technology-based crimes, that sprawl across jurisdictions, and recommended they fight back with similar tools by: developing their own digital expertise; hiring civilian analysts; mining technology, to help solve crime; encouraging banks to forward reports of theft rather write off their losses.Above all, policing needs “better systems for gathering data,” the report said.It is an issue that dates back to 1929, when the F.B.I. first rolled out its Uniform Crime Reporting system that still stands today. Designed as a summary count, it mainly tracks a handful of so-called Part One index crimes: murder, rape, robbery, assault, burglary, grand larceny, arson and auto theft. The counts include only the top charge in a given episode.In the 1980s, the F.B.I., with Bureau of Justice Statistics, tried to improve the reporting by building the so-called National Incident-Based Reporting System to capture deeper levels of data across more categories. It created, for instance, “crimes against a person” which includes: assault, murder, kidnapping, abduction and sexual offenses. Each act is counted separately, within an incident or a crime that encompasses several criminal elements.But 40 years later, data collection is still haphazard as policing agencies that protect just 31 percent of the country’s population volunteer to abide by the deeper reporting standards. (An example: There is no national database of police officers’ use of deadly physical force.) Still, the F.B.I. is charging forward, vowing to move fully to its 1980s-era vision by 2021. Only last year did it began collecting data on two new offenses in its fraud category: hacking/computer invasion and identify theft.“Crime data reporting — in its current state — is not collecting the right information to understand and analyze current events,” Stephen G. Fischer Jr., an F.B.I. spokesman, said. “Today’s information age has changed how we see the world and what the world expects from policing.”The panel of the National Academy of Sciences is looking past the F.B.I.’s unmet goals — which it sees as one component of a new approach. The panel wants a fresh system for understanding the nature and extent of crime today, said Janet L. Lauritsen, the panel’s chair and a criminology professor at the University of Missouri.It envisions a format modeled in part, on an international framework organized by the United Nations that would reflect 11 prime categories of crime and 189 sublevels, including many that “are just not even part of the national conversation on crime,” Ms. Lauritsen said. It would, for instance, capture reports from federal agencies, she said, that have never reported crime data to the F.B.I., “even though there is actually a law on the books,” the Uniform Federal Crime Reporting Act, from 1988, that compels it.Better data fosters transparency, which can build trust with civilians even if it yields statistical crime increases, said Col. Edwin C. Roessler Jr., the police chief in Fairfax County, Va., who is the F.B.I. director’s chairman for converting policing to a new crime classification system. Data offers the evidence to lobby government for more money or better laws, he said. In fact, when Colonel Roessler demonstrated how each gang homicide, on average, required 25 search warrants for “cyberdata, cellphones and other social media,” it helped win financing for a new Cyber Bureau and new “cyberexperts” to work gang cases and build meaningful statistics and intelligence.“We’ve got gaps here, where we’re not catching the root causes of all kinds of criminal activity,” the colonel said, a flaw with real-life consequences.So too, for Chief Magnus, in Tucson, who sees the lack of modern-day crime classification as “one of our biggest frustrations.” As he leads a force of 850 officers patrolling 300 square miles, lapses in accurate statistics on property crime, fraud, human trafficking and digital crime hurt his ability to deploy thin resources.“Once you get into cyberspace,” he said, “data about anything is so limited that it’s really, really hard to figure out even what might be happening locally that impacts that crime.”

Supported byBy Rana AyyubMs. Ayyub is an Indian journalist.MUMBAI, India — I work as an investigative and political journalist. Two years back, I published a book — after going undercover for eight months — about the complicity of Narendra Modi, now prime minister of India, and Amit Shah, now president of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, in riots in 2002 in the western state of Gujarat. I also reported on several extrajudicial murders in the state between 2002 and 2006 that Mr. Shah was accused of being involved in.Like many of my colleagues, I regularly write and speak about the violence against India’s minorities and lower-caste groups and have called out Mr. Modi’s silence on the violence and his dog-whistle politics.For the past few years, like several female journalists critical of the Hindu nationalist politics and government, I have been targeted by an apparently coordinated social media campaign that slut-shames, deploys manipulated images with sexually explicit language, and threatens rape. Mr. Modi and several of his ministers embolden the virtual mob by following them on social media.Yet nothing had prepared me for what was thrown at me in the past month. On April 22, I was alarmed to find a quotation supporting child rapists falsely attributed to me and going viral on Twitter. A parody account of Republic TV, India’s leading right-wing television network, had posted the quotation.I received numerous messages shaming me for supporting child rapists. A Facebook page called Yogi Adityanath Ki Sena, or the Army of Yogi Adityanath, translated the tweet into Hindi and circulated it on social media. Mr. Adityanath is the firebrand Hindu nationalist monk who was elected the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, the most populous state in India, last April.I tweeted a clarification about the falsehood to no avail: My social media accounts and my phone were inundated with WhatsApp messages urging others to gang-rape me. Various leaders of Mr. Modi’s party, who promoted the lie, refused to delete their tweets despite my pointing it out.The following day, on April 23, another tweet was generated using Photoshop and attributed to me. “I hate India and Indians,” it said. The online mob asked me to pack my bags and leave for Pakistan, some threatened to tear my clothes and drag me out of the country while invoking the genocidal violence between Hindus and Muslims during the partition of India in 1947.In the evening, an activist from the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, the Hindu nationalist mother ship, alerted me to a scurrilous pornographic video being shared on various WhatsApp groups. He had received it from a group with many Bharatiya Janata Party members: a two-minute, 20-second pornographic video of a sex act with my face morphed onto another woman.Despite our political differences, he was upset at this new low. He urged me to take legal action to keep it from spreading further.A minute later, he shared the video with me. I was with a friend in a cafe in New Delhi. I saw the first two frames and froze. I wanted to vomit and fought tears. My friend got me a glass of water. “How could they?” I threw up and burst into tears.I called a friend who worked in tech forensics. He said it was a clear fake, probably produced with a new app called Deepfake. His words did not console me. The video was on my phone and on numerous others across the country.Minutes later, my social media timelines and notifications were filled with screenshots of the video. Some commented on how prostitution was my forte. I went into a frenzy blocking them, but they were everywhere, on my Instagram, Facebook and Twitter accounts. Some commenters asked what I charged for sex, others described my body. Many claiming to be nationalist Hindus sent pictures of themselves naked.I started getting screenshots from friends of a Twitter account created in my name. I was doxxed. A tweet with my name, picture, phone number and address was being circulated. “I am available,” it said. Someone sent my father a screenshot of the video. He was silent on the phone while I cried. After a while he spoke in a sad, heavy voice. “I am surprised this did not happen earlier,” he said. “They want to break you. The choice is yours.”I asked a friend to take charge of my Facebook account and send me screenshots and links of every message posted to my inbox. The reporter in me wanted the digital record, but I shuddered every time my phone beeped.I have no way of finding out who produced the video. What I do know is this: Most of the Twitter handles and Facebook accounts that posted the pornographic video and screenshots identify themselves as fans of Mr. Modi and his party, and argue for turning India into a “Hindu rashtra” — a country for Hindus only, where religious minorities have almost no rights. I reported several of those accounts to the cybercrime section of the Delhi Police.That night the administrator of a Facebook page called Varah Sena wrote, “See, Rana, what we spread about you; this is what happens when you write lies about Modi and Hindus in India.” The comment was posted along with the concocted video on Facebook and Twitter. (The page was deleted after I filed the police complaint.)The slut-shaming and hatred felt like being punished by a mob for my work as a journalist, an attempt to silence me. It was aimed at humiliating me, breaking me by trying to define me as a “promiscuous,” “immoral” woman.As I collected myself, I thought of Gauri Lankesh, the editor and outspoken critic of Hindu nationalists, who was murdered outside her home in Bangalore last September. She had published my book in the Kannada language.Several handlers of these social media accounts, who posted and circulated the pornographic video, had celebrated her death. And some of them were and continue to be followed on Twitter by the prime minister of India.Mr. Modi has repeatedly talked about changing Indian lives through technology. Four years into his term, his followers have indeed found a vigorous use for technology: curtailing criticism and normalizing hatred and misogyny.Rana Ayyub is the author of “Gujarat Files: Anatomy of a Cover Up.”Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.

Supported byBy Roger CohenRAMALLAH, West Bank — Elie Shamaa is the kind of young man Palestine needs. A tech specialist working for an international organization in the West Bank, he’s fluent in English and is completing an M.B.A. through an American program in Ramallah. But he’s had it. He sees his future elsewhere. “People reached a point where they know they are losing their life,” he told me.We spoke as we drove north from Ramallah to Nablus. Hilltop Israeli settlements, controlling the line of sight, loomed into view at every turn, the ubiquitous red-roofed stamp of a half-century of occupation. As we passed through an Israeli checkpoint, Shamaa murmured, “In one minute they can close anything; in one minute they can open anything.” Planning is impossible for the three million Palestinians in the West Bank. Their lives must bend to Israeli whim.Never, through decades of national struggle, have the Palestinians been weaker. Benjamin Netanyahu’s Israel has been implacable in undermining possible Palestinian statehood. Arab states, Iran-obsessed, have lost interest in the Palestinian cause. President Trump has threatened to cut off “hundreds of millions of dollars in aid and support” in response to perceived Palestinian lèse-majesté after his decision to take Jerusalem “off the table” by recognizing it as Israel’s capital.But even in this environment, Mahmoud Abbas, the 82-year-old Palestinian president, cannot escape responsibility for failure. His government is now widely seen as a corrupt gerontocracy. It is inept, remote, self-serving and ever more authoritarian. Elected to a four-year term in January 2005, he’s entering the 14th year of a largely unaccountable presidency.Crippling divisions between his Fatah movement and Hamas in Gaza persist beneath a veneer of “reconciliation.” To a population whose median age is about 20, Abbas and his cronies look like the past. Of the 18 elected members of the Fatah Central Committee, only one is under 50. Most of them live very well even as many Palestinians dismiss them as Israel’s lap dogs because of their close security and intelligence cooperation with Israel.“There’s a growing climate of fear,” said Darin Hussein, the country manager for a nongovernmental organization encouraging sports for Palestinian children. “You can be arrested for posting anything critical on social media.” In her mid-30s, she, too, has hit bottom. “Nothing is going to change,” she told me.Abbas has stamped on a free press at a time when strong investigative journalism in Israel has contributed to Netanyahu’s woes over corruption allegations. He issued a grotesque cybercrime law last summer that punishes with a year of imprisonment anyone who creates a website that “aims to publish news that would endanger the integrity of the Palestinian state” or “the public order.” The legislation, which also imposes a two-year sentence on anyone publishing information “with the intent to attack any family principles or values,” amounts to a violation of the Palestinian Basic Law of 2003. This guarantees the right of everyone to “express his opinion and to circulate it orally, in writing, or in any form of expression.” Putative Palestine is in a repressive slide.The president has also undermined an independent judiciary. Over multiple objections, Abbas has appointed a Constitutional Court, pliant to his will. This was a means to circumvent the High Court and lift the immunity of several members of the Palestinian Legislative Council, or Parliament, which has not convened for more than a decade. The maneuver was aimed against his arch political rival, Muhammad Dahlan, who lives in exile in the United Arab Emirates. Dahlan has been sentenced to prison on corruption charges.Khalil Shikaki is a respected Palestinian pollster. He runs the independent Palestinian Center for Policy and Survey Research, which receives funding from the European Union. Now, he told me, the Abbas government has blocked access to the money in an illegal attempt to force the think tank to close down.“Power has corrupted Abbas,” Shikaki said. “He’s destroyed the judiciary, and he’s destroying the plurality of civil society. The cybercrime law is worthy of Saddam Hussein.”Of course, Abbas’s cover is the Israeli occupation, with its unrelenting settlement growth and use of military force. Electricity comes and goes. Access to water is intermittent. The same journey can take one hour or 12. Families may be dragged from their homes. To get a permit to go to Ben-Gurion airport, or visit a relative in Gaza, can be an endless headache. Little humiliations multiply.In these circumstances, with Netanyahu veering right and his ministers talking openly of annexation of parts of the West Bank, European governments are reluctant to criticize Abbas. His two sons, Tareq and Yasser, are known to have large business interests. Their privileged position has attracted international scrutiny.If Palestine has slipped backward toward opacity and one-man rule since former Prime Minister Salam Fayyad’s transformative push for transparency ended in 2013, the argument goes, that’s just the collateral damage of the occupation. With Israel at his throat, what could Abbas do?“We are not out of touch,” Muhammad Shtayyeh, a member of the Fatah Central Committee, told me. “But we are unable to fulfill the aspirations of the Palestinian people due to the Israeli occupation. Our failures are not due to any mistakes.”Such arguments fall short. By dismantling Palestinian freedoms, by disempowering his people, Abbas has been undoing the foundations of statehood and sapping the energy that comes with personal agency. It is time to organize elections that might usher in younger leadership — and reveal the balance of forces in the West Bank and Gaza. The alternative is a drift to despotism under a bunch of old men long on outrage but short on everything else.“If you don’t take agency in your liberation, you are not going to be free,” Fayyad told me. “What Palestinians see of their state right now is not very attractive.”Abbas remains committed to a two-state outcome. But belief in a two-state peace is dwindling. Shikaki, the pollster, told me that Palestinian support for two states is now about 46 percent, down from about 80 percent in the mid-1990s. Still, he said, a two-state solution remains viable. Surveys show that various incentives — like the release of prisoners for Palestinians, or a wider peace with the Arab world for Israelis — can quickly shift opinion.Sooner or later, whether in the next several months through an indictment or later through the ballot box, Netanyahu will be gone. It’s idle to think any successor will easily cede territory for peace. Yet it’s possible; it’s happened before. Trump, too, will be gone one day. Abbas could live on for several years, but the damage he is doing the Palestinian cause is such that he should quit now if he is not prepared to organize an election in 2018.In the current vacuum, a dream of one state with equal rights for all peoples — a kind of United States of the Holy Land — has gained some traction. It is pure, if seductive, illusion — flimsy code for the destruction of Israel as the national homeland of the Jews. It will not happen.Trump’s instinct to blow up the status quo is dangerous. So is Abbas’ comfort with that status quo. It corrodes. The threat from Trump to cut off aid could leave millions of Palestinian refugees without access to schools or hospitals. That’s unacceptable. But it’s equally unacceptable that Arab states only contribute about 3.5 percent of the budget of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestinians refugees, compared with the American contribution of about 25 percent. The “peace process,” unable to resolve the refugee issue, has become an infernal, corrupted mechanism incubating victimhood and masking myriad abuses. The Palestinian Authority is its poster child.“The Palestinian Authority is a subcontractor to the occupation,” Issa Amro, a human-rights activist in Hebron told me. “Abbas should stop corruption and start organizing an election.”The road from Ramallah to Nablus winds from “Area A,” which is under Palestinian control, through “Area C,” the 60 percent of the West Bank under direct Israeli rule: the lexicon of the moribund Oslo Accords endures. A settler, Rabbi Raziel Shevach, had been shot dead near Nablus a few days before my visit, a killing applauded by Hamas. Young settlers with the hilltop look — large kippas and side locks — milled around the roadside as a squad of Israeli soldiers tried to keep them away from Palestinians: just another day in the West Bank.In Nablus, with its beautiful covered market, I met Saed Abu-Hijleh, a 52-year-old university professor and poet. In 2002, Israeli forces killed his mother. He raised his shirt to reveal scars from bullet wounds. Wandering through the market, he saluted friends, all of whom seem to have been in prison with him at one time or another. He describes Israel as a “colonial apartheid state” built on the “perpetuation of violence and dehumanization.”That’s Abu-Hijleh’s lived Palestinian truth. The family of the murdered Shevach has its lived Jewish truth. Everybody has a lived truth between the Mediterranean and the Jordan River. Perhaps those truths are irreconcilable. Without creative leadership, they certainly are. Abu-Hijleh continued: “After the slap they got from Trump, the Palestinian Authority should resign and organize elections. They put their eggs in the American basket for 25 years, and all they got is humiliation.”It is time for Abbas to go, before the bright young Palestinians like Elie Shamaa, the young tech specialist, all go from their occupied land.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the  Opinion Today newsletter. 

Supported byBy Matthew Rosenberg and Nicholas ConfessoreWASHINGTON — The Justice Department and the F.B.I. are investigating Cambridge Analytica, the now-defunct political data firm, and have sought to question former employees and banks that handled its business, according to an American official and other people familiar with the inquiry.Prosecutors have questioned potential witnesses in recent weeks, telling them that there is an open investigation into Cambridge Analytica — which worked on President Trump’s election and other Republican campaigns in 2016 — and “associated U.S. persons.” But the prosecutors provided few other details, and the inquiry appears to be in its early stages, with investigators seeking an overview of the company and its business practices.The investigation compounds the woes of a firm that has come under intense scrutiny from lawmakers and regulators in the United States and Britain since The New York Times and Observer in London reported in March that it had harvested private data from more than 50 million Facebook profiles, and that it may have violated American election laws. This month, Cambridge Analytica announced that it would shut down and declare bankruptcy, saying that negative press and cascading federal and state investigations had driven away customers and made it impossible for the firm to remain in business.Cambridge Analytica, the Justice Department and the Federal Bureau of Investigation declined to comment.The company, whose principal owner is the wealthy Republican donor Robert Mercer, offered tools that it claimed could identify the personalities of American voters and influence their behavior. Its so-called psychographic modeling techniques, which were built in part with the data harvested from Facebook, underpinned Cambridge’s work for the Trump campaign in 2016.But the firm found itself at the center of a trans-Atlantic furor after the Times and Observer articles appeared. It was then dealt another blow when a British news channel broadcast undercover video in which Alexander Nix, the company’s suspended chief executive, suggested that the company had used seduction and bribery to entrap politicians and influence foreign elections.The federal investigation in the United States appears to focus on the company’s financial dealings — investigators have reached out to the company’s banks, for instance — and how it acquired and used personal data pulled from Facebook and other sources, according to the American official, who was briefed on the inquiry, and other people familiar with it.In addition, the investigators have contacted Facebook, said the official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss the investigation. The official would not provide any other details, and Facebook declined to comment.In a sign of the inquiry’s scope, one of the prosecutors involved is the assistant chief of the Justice Department’s securities and financial fraud division, Brian Kidd. The effort is being assisted by at least one agent who investigates cybercrime for the F.B.I., those people said.Mr. Kidd traveled to London this month with another Justice Department prosecutor and an F.B.I. agent to interview Christopher Wylie, a former Cambridge Analytica employee who has emerged as one of the firm’s fiercest critics.“I can confirm that I’ve been contacted by the F.B.I. and the Department of Justice, and answered preliminary questions,” Mr. Wylie said in a brief interview. “We plan to meet again to provide substantive answers to the investigators.”It was not clear whether the investigation is tied to the inquiry being led by Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, who is examining whether Mr. Trump or any of his associates aided Russia’s effort to interfere in the presidential election. Prosecutors from Mr. Mueller’s team questioned at least two Cambridge executives last December in Washington, according to one company official.The employee, who asked to remain anonymous to describe confidential internal matters, added that the inquiry appeared to be perfunctory. There have been no other concrete signs from Mr. Mueller’s team that Cambridge is a focus of their efforts.The Justice Department’s investigation is running parallel to a separate investigation by the National Crime Agency of Britain. There, investigators are examining a range of allegations, including whether Cambridge Analytica employees sought to bribe foreign officials, destroyed evidence, hacked computers and violated Britain’s Data Protection Act.Mr. Wylie said he had been cooperating with the National Crime Agency. He has also provided testimony and internal Cambridge Analytica documents to Parliament.“There is an international investigation being coordinated by the National Crime Agency in Britain, and I intend to be as helpful and cooperative as I can,” he said.Cambridge Analytica has denied using Facebook data on the 2016 campaign. An internal audit commissioned by Cambridge described Mr. Nix’s statements in the video as an exaggeration.Cambridge Analytica grew out of the SCL Group, a well-established British company that specialized in psychological research for defense and intelligence agencies but also worked on election campaigns, chiefly in developing countries.In 2014, SCL executives persuaded Mr. Mercer to bankroll a new United States-based firm, Cambridge Analytica, that would break into the growing political data market with a promising new product: psychological profiles of millions of American voters. The new company was overseen by Mr. Mercer’s daughter, Rebekah, and then adviser, Stephen K. Bannon, both of whom went on to enjoy influential positions in Mr. Trump’s circle before the president’s break with Mr. Bannon this year.Also in 2014, a contractor for the new firm used quiz apps and other programs to gather private profile information from as many as 87 million Facebook users, data former Cambridge employees said provided the critical basis for the new company’s voter profiles. The Times also reported in March that the company had sent personnel from Canada and Europe to work on various campaigns in the 2014 midterm elections and in 2016 campaigns, raising questions about Cambridge’s compliance with federal election law, which limits the involvement of noncitizens in election campaigns.Over the past year, Cambridge’s efforts to break into commercial data and marketing work had suffered from the company’s association with Mr. Trump, according to former employees. And in the months before shutting down, Mr. Nix, the Mercer family and SCL’s owners had considered new ventures together.One new firm, a British holding company called Emerdata, was formed in part to bring in new investors, according to a former employee. Emerdata’s directors, according to public records, came to include Johnson Ko Chun Shun, a Hong Kong financier and business partner of Erik Prince, founder of the private security firm formerly known as Blackwater.Mr. Ko and Mr. Prince have links to the Chinese government: Citic, a state-owned Chinese financial conglomerate that for decades has employed the sons and daughters of the Communist Party’s elite families, is a major investor in Frontier Services Group, Mr. Ko and Mr. Prince’s Africa-focused logistics company.Follow Matthew Rosenberg on Twitter at @AllMattNYT, and Nicholas Confessore at @nickconfessore.Matthew Rosenberg reported from Washington, and Nicholas Confessore reported from New York. Adam Goldman contributed reporting from Washington.

Supported byOne of the two pillars of the West is in jeopardy.By Thomas L. FriedmanOpinion ColumnistROME — I’ve found lately that I can ruin any dinner party. It’s like magic. Just get me going on Trump or Putin or climate change and I can put a frown on every face and a furrow in every brow. I do weddings and bar mitzvahs, too.So I thought I’d come to Italy for a little sun and risotto. I made the mistake, though, of spending a few days with Italian government and international experts trying to understand the refugee crisis that is fracturing the European Union, much of which originates in Italy. And guess what? Now I can ruin your dinner party — and breakfast!Because what you find when you take a close look at the situation here is something profoundly worrying. I was born in 1953 and have been living my entire life inside the community of democracies that came to be known as “the West” and eventually spread to include democracies around the world, such as Japan, Brazil, South Korea and India. At the core of this community were two pillars: the U.S. and the group of European democracies that became the European Union.“The West” was not just a state of mind. It was an association of countries with shared interests, institutions and values — particularly the values of liberty, democracy, free markets and the rule of law — which made the post-World War II world, though far from perfect, a steadily more prosperous, free and decent place for more and more people. This community of democracies was also a beacon, a refuge and a magnet for those who wanted to embrace its values but were denied them where they lived.But the European pillar of this community of democracies has never been more under assault — so much so that for the first time I wonder if this European pillar will actually crumble.From Italy you can see all the lines of attack: Donald Trump coming from the West, Vladimir Putin from the East and environmental and political disorder from the south — from Africa and the Middle East, where the reckless 2011 French-British-U.S. decision to topple Libyan strongman Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, and not stay on to help build a new order in his place, now haunts Italy. Toppling Qaddafi without building a new order may go down as the single dumbest action the NATO alliance ever took.It took the lid off Africa, leading to some 600,000 asylum seekers and illegal migrants flocking to Italy’s shores in recent years, with 300,000 staying there and the rest filtering into other E.U. countries. This has created wrangles within the bloc over who should absorb how many migrants and has spawned nationalist-populist backlashes in almost every E.U. country. Democracy was never the dominant driver of the uprising against Qaddafi. It was much more a revolt by anti-Qaddafi tribes in eastern Libya. But when you just let a tribal revolt rage in a country with few real institutions, you end up with what you have in Libya today: multiple tribes and militias all competing for power and control of oil, creating vast zones of disorder, which both African and Arab refugees and economic migrants can take advantage of to reach the Libyan coastline to try to catch a human trafficking boat to Italy.Italian officials will tell you that Libya now really has only three effective institutions: a state-owned oil company; a central bank that distributes its proceeds to the government and indirectly to various tribal militias; and a coast guard that the Italians have propped up to help stop refugee boats from leaving Libya for Italy. Human trafficking is the second-largest industry in Libya today, after oil.In 2017, the biggest migrant groups to arrive in Italy mostly via Libya were from Nigeria, Guinea, Ivory Coast, Bangladesh and Eritrea.An Italian official expressed great disgust to me over the fact that Italy’s economy has lost hundreds of millions of euros by participating in E.U. sanctions on Russia — to help deter Russia from encroaching on Central Europe — while Central European E.U. countries, like Hungary, have refused to take a single one of the migrants who have sailed to Italy’s shores. Italy has the anti-immigrant government it has, an Italian refugee expert explained, because the world and the rest of the E.U. “turned its back on Italy,” where unassimilated migrants are now visible in the streets, squares and train stations. “There have to be shared E.U. migration quotas,” he added, consistent E.U. “legal pathways” for immigration and a strategy to improve effective and accountable governance in Africa, not just paying off warlords there to collar refugees. “The movement of people will happen,” said another Italian official. “The question is: Do we manage it or not?”That’s for sure. The total population of Europe/Russia today is about 740 million people, according to the United Nations, and Africa’s is 1.2 billion. By 2050, Europe-Russia will shrink to around 700 million and Africa will double to 2.4 billion. If disorder spreads in Africa, the current crisis will seem tame and manageable by comparison.Mind you, countries like Italy actually need more workers and should welcome them. Some 60 percent of Africans are under age 24, while 27 percent of Europeans are. But the latest African/Arab flow has come faster than Italian and other European societies can absorb them culturally and politically, and politicians have risen up to take advantage of the backlash and create hysteria. Meanwhile, it should come as no surprise that Putin, who has long had a foreign policy goal of weakening and discrediting the E.U. — in order to diminish it as a vibrant alternative to his kleptocratic, nationalist autocracy or as an inspiration for former Soviet satellites like Ukraine — has encouraged the rise of anti-E.U. parties in Italy as well as the U.K.’s Brexit. In March, Italy’s annual security report warned of foreign online “influence campaigns” in its elections then. The vote brought to power the most pro-Putin, anti-immigrant, anti-E.U. coalition ever to rule Italy: the League and the Five-Star Movement. As for Trump, he has no appreciation for how important the E.U.-U.S. partnership has been to catalyzing the global cooperation and rule-making that has made America, Europe and the world as a whole steadily freer, more stable and more prosperous since World War II.Trump actually pressed British Prime Minister Theresa May to make a sharp Brexit from the E.U., if she wanted to have a free-trade agreement with the U.S., and he characterized the E.U. not as a partner on trade but as a “foe.” Trump seems to prefer that the E.U. fracture so he can try to strike better trade deals with the countries individually. How else to explain these irrational moves?One of the first foreign visitors to come to Italy to high-five its new government of Euro- and NATO-skeptics and anti-immigrant populists was Trump’s former brain, Steve Bannon, who reportedly said of the ruling coalition: “If it works in Italy, it is going to work everywhere. … It is going to break the backs of the globalists.”This is such foolish talk. It was the U.S. and what became the E.U. that took the lead in not only repelling communism but in shaping the rules and catalyzing institutions that managed the key global issues after W.W. II — like trade, migration, environment and human rights — helping more people around the globe grow out of poverty faster than ever before. We need the U.S. and the E.U. — joined by the other Group of 20 nations — to play a similar role today. The change in the pace of change in the climate, globalization and technology has thrown up a whole set of new challenges very fast — extreme weather, cybercrime, crypto-currencies, social networks, deepfake technologies, self-driving vehicles, artificial intelligence, biological design tools and questions of how to distinguish among refugees, economic migrants and asylum seekers. These can be managed only through global cooperation and new rules. If the community of democracies fractures, and we return to a more 19th- and 20th-century great power competition, who will write the new rules for the 21st century? Who will help Libya or the struggling countries of sub-Saharan Africa create governance and nurture their human capital to escape disorder, so their people don’t feel the need to emigrate to survive or thrive. Russia? China? I don’t think so. There will be a global leadership vacuum, a free-for-all, with terrible consequences. It will be hard enough dealing with these issues with a community of democracies leading the way again, but it will be impossible to do so if Trump, Bannon and Putin, and their fellow travelers, succeed in breaking it up. So sorry to ruin your breakfast, lunch and dinner.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. Thomas L. Friedman is the foreign affairs Op-Ed columnist. He joined the paper in 1981, and has won three Pulitzer Prizes. He is the author of seven books, including “From Beirut to Jerusalem,” which won the National Book Award.  @tomfriedman • Facebook 

Supported byBy Zach Johnk and Sandra Stevenson(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. The stock market tanked again as weakness extended from last week, when stocks had their worst performance in two years.So far, we’re not in correction territory. But if the momentary sputter turns into something worse, it could become particularly awkward for President Trump, who has repeatedly claimed credit for a surging economy.____2. In Washington, the battle over memos rages on.A House panel voted torelease a Democratic rebuttal to a Republican memo that accuses federal law enforcement officials of abusing their powers to spy on a former Trump campaign adviser.Earlier, President Trump called Democrats “treasonous,” and said one representative, Adam Schiff of California, above, was “one of the biggest liars and leakers in Washington.”The New York Times requested that a surveillance court unseal secret documents related to the wiretapping of the Trump adviser, Carter Page, arguing that Mr. Trump lowered the shield of secrecy by declassifying the Republican memo.____3. Crime is down — right? Some kinds, yes. But there’s a rise in new cybercrimes.And police departments have a hard time even tracking identity theft, revenge porn, fentanyl purchases over the dark web and many other kinds of digital villainy.“Suspects take advantage, knowing that, ‘Hey, I’m basically committing crimes blindly,’ without the fear of prosecution,” one police commander said. “And I can’t analyze something if I don’t have data.”____4. The lie: A Times Documentary profiles a rising white supremacist leader who depicts himself as an American patriot and Iraq war veteran.Our investigation found that his personal narrative — like much of the messaging that underpins so-called alt-right groups — is built on deception. Here’s how our correspondents uncovered the lie that helped Elliott Kline, who started out as a Twitter troll, carve out a national profile.____5. Even in  famously egalitarian Scandinavia, motherhood exacts a price on careers.Despite generous social policies, women working full time are still paid 15 percent to 20 percent less than men, new research shows — a gender pay gap similar to that in the United States.And for the same main reason: Women spend more time on child rearing.____6. “Woefully out of touch with today’s music, the music business, and even more significantly, society.”That was part of a letter from some of the music industry’s most powerful women rebuking the organization that presents the Grammy Awards, the Recording Academy.The lashing came after a week of building anger at the academy’s president, Neil Portnow, above, who said that women in music needed to “step up” to advance their careers.A recent report highlighted statistics many female artists found infuriating. For instance, in the last six years, only 9.3 percent of Grammy nominees were women.____7. Broadcom raised its takeover bid for the rival chip maker Qualcomm to about $121 billion, piling pressure on fiercely opposed Qualcomm executives to agree to what would be the tech industry’s biggest takeover to date.The result would be a giant company serving nearly all of the world’s smartphones.But a deal isn’t certain. Analysts have said that even if shareholders approve the takeover, it could fall on antitrust grounds.____8. With Philadelphia still euphoric after the Eagles’ 41-33 victory over the Patriots in the Super Bowl, eyes in New England and elsewhere turned to the 40-year-old Tom Brady as fans wondered: Will you return next year?“Don’t see why I wouldn’t be back,” he said.Here’s how the Eagles’ less storied quarterback, Nick Foles, and his team tricked the Patriots. Above, the team’s general manager, Howie Roseman, lifted the Vince Lombardi Trophy._____9. Elsewhere in the sporting world, the Winter Olympics start Friday in South Korea.We’re introducing augmented reality to enhance our coverage. It uses your phone or tablet to create a bridge between the digital and physical.Try it out: Catch four Olympians mid-action.____10. Finally, animals can count, and some of them are better than us at it.Scientists have found that animals across the evolutionary spectrum have a keen sense of quantity. Many can distinguish not just bigger from smaller or more from less, but also two from four, four from 10, 40 from 60.For example, small fish have better odds of escaping predation when they live in schools — the larger the better. So many shoaling fish are excellent appraisers of relative head counts.Have a great night.____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.

Supported byBy David D. KirkpatrickLONDON — Russian hackers over the past 12 months have tried to attack the British energy, telecommunications and media industries, the government’s top cybersecurity official said Tuesday in a summary of a speech to be delivered on Wednesday.The warning, by Ciaran Martin, chief of the National Cyber Security Center, is the strongest indication yet that Russian cyberattacks on Western governments and industries may be far more persistent than United States or British officials have previously acknowledged.The speech also appeared to fit into a coordinated effort by the British government to publicly warn Russia that its efforts have been noticed. In a speech on Monday night, Prime Minister Theresa May addressed Russia directly. “We know what you are doing,” Mrs. May said. “And you will not succeed.” She accused the Kremlin of “threatening the international order on which we all depend.”Taken together, the two speeches are a sharp escalation in the public accusations around a conflict that has so far remained mostly in the shadows. Recent high-profile cyberattacks, however, have put new pressure on politicians to defend against the dangers.The most spectacular example is the break into the computer systems of the American Democratic Party during the 2016 presidential campaign, an attack American intelligence agencies have attributed to Russian hackers.But Britain this year was hit by the so-called WannaCry cyberattack, carried out by North Korea. It temporarily disabled the computer systems at several British hospitals, forcing the diversion of ambulances and the rescheduling of operations, before it was stopped by the lucky break of a lone amateur who successfully defused it.American government officials also reportedly concluded over the summer that Russia had penetrated the computer networks of companies that operate nuclear power stations and other energy facilities, evidently gathering information and probing for vulnerabilities. No operations were disrupted.The Russians also reportedly tried to break into the Irish electrical grid last summer, and British officials warned at the time that they appeared to be singling out British power companies as well. Russian hackers have successfully shut down power for a time in parts of Ukraine, which the Russians appear to treat as laboratory for testing such tactics.British and American intelligence officials say the Kremlin has deliberately cultivated a cottage industry of criminal hackers loosely affiliated with Russian intelligence agencies. Russian intelligence officials sometimes personally profit from the revenue from cybercrimes, and at other times they direct the hackers toward sabotage, espionage or other less lucrative objectives.Among other victories, the Russians appear to have collaborated with a group calling itself Shadow Brokers to release a trove of cyberespionage tactics stolen from the computers of the National Security Agency, including some incorporated in the WannaCry virus that have now been used against Western industries and governments.The summary released Tuesday of Mr. Martin’s speech provided no details of the specific Russian attacks over the last year on British energy, telecommunications or media companies. Nor did the statement discuss any possible Russian efforts to use social media or cyberespionage to influence elections in Britain, as the Kremlin has recently sought to do in the United States and France.But Mr. Martin said that fears of Russian election meddling have grown increasingly widespread throughout Europe. At a conference organized last month by the National Cyber Security Center, he said, two-thirds of the member states of the European Union were concerned about potential Russian interference in their internal elections.

Supported byBy Katrin Bennhold and Mark ScottLONDON — Bank robbers wear masks and escape in vans with stolen license plates. Kidnappers compose ransom letters from newsprint to elude handwriting experts. Burglars target houses with the upstairs window ajar.Cybercriminals do much the same.They hide behind software that obscures their identity and leads investigators to look in countries far from their actual hide-outs. They kidnap data and hold it hostage. And they target the most vulnerable companies and people whose information is poorly protected.Cybercrimes, like the global ransomware attack that began Friday and has affected hundreds of thousands of computers in more than 150 countries, are in a way an updated version of ancient criminal methods.And in the global search for the criminals that continued Sunday, investigators are following much the same process that detectives in the physical world have used for decades: secure the crime scene, collect forensic evidence and try to trace the clues back to the perpetrator.But for all of their similarities to traditional crimes, cyberattacks have major digital twists that can make them much harder to solve and can greatly magnify the damage done.The latest attack has claimed at least 200,000 victims worldwide, according to an estimate on Sunday by Europol, Europe’s police agency, and new variants of the malware are emerging, leading security experts to warn that the fallout could spread as people return to work on Monday.Such a large, complex and global crime outbreak means any hope of a successful investigation will require close teamwork among international law enforcement agencies — like the F.B.I., Scotland Yard and security officials in China and Russia — often wary of sharing information with one another.“With cybercrime, you can operate globally without ever having to leave your home,” said Brian Lord, a former deputy director for intelligence and cyberoperations at Government Communications Headquarters, Britain’s equivalent of the National Security Agency. “Catching who did this is going to be very hard, and will require a level of international cooperation from law enforcement that does not come naturally.”The only institutional arrangement for international cooperation on cybercrime is the so-called Budapest Convention, whose membership is largely restricted to Western democracies, said Nigel Inkster, a former assistant chief of Britain’s secret intelligence service, MI6.Authoritarian states such as Russia and China have refused to sign on to the agreement because it permits the digital equivalent of hot pursuit: A police force investigating a cybercrime can access networks in other jurisdictions without first seeking permission.“Any investigation of the recent ransomware attack will have to be done by a coalition of the willing,” Mr. Inkster said.There are signs a coalition is coming together, at least in parts of the international system. Europol said its team of cybersecurity specialists — made up of agents from countries like Germany, Britain and the United States — was investigating the attack.Europe and Asia were the regions most affected by the crime, with hospitals, car plants and even the Russian Ministry of Interior falling prey to the malware, which takes over a computer, locks down the machine and releases it only when the owner has paid a ransom.Hours after the attack was first reported in Britain, where the computer systems of the National Health Service were crippled, law enforcement agencies across Europe, Asia and the United States began looking for clues that could trace the assault to specific people or organizations.As with a physical crime scene, the first step with any cyberinvestigation is to make sure the criminal is no longer hiding out, about to pounce again.“Before we get into who did it, we try to figure out if the bad guys still have access,” said Theresa Payton, a former chief information officer of the White House and founder of Fortalice, a cybersecurity firm. “Are they still hiding? Are they going to come back tomorrow? Is the door that let them in still ajar? Can they inflict more pain?”“And if so, where are they?” she added. “How do we cordon them off to mitigate further damages?”Instead of searching the closets of a property that has been broken into, investigators will examine the affected server, online software caches and emails to identify any malware that might not have been activated yet.In the case of the ransomware that was unleashed Friday and is known as WannaCry, Wcry or Wanna Decryptor, it was quickly determined that updating Windows software with the latest security patch was enough to inoculate computers that had not been infected.A new strain of ransomware spread rapidly around the world on Friday.Then the forensic work begins, with agents looking for digital fingerprints.Because of the highly technical nature of these investigations, private data security teams can be expected to help in the search. That includes working directly with law enforcement to uncover clues left behind by the attackers, as well as tracking the virus and its effects separately to protect their corporate clients. These firms have been instrumental in solving some cases.In the WannaCry case, the phishing emails sent by the criminals with the infected link are a key piece of evidence. Patricia Lewis, the international security research director at Chatham House in London, likened the text of the email to a physical letter and its metadata to the envelope it arrives in.“An envelope has lots of information on it: the stamp with the time and place it was sent from, the handwriting or printer type, a sender’s address, maybe a fingerprint or DNA from saliva on the seal,” Ms. Lewis said.Criminals are aware their emails contain revealing clues, and they try to cover their tracks. “People use cloakers, which hide your identity, making you look as if you are someone and somewhere else,” she said.Like tracing the license plates of a stolen car back to the wrong person, this can lead investigators astray. “But a good detective can track them,” Ms. Lewis said. “They always leave digital bread crumbs that can be followed.”Investigators will check whether the email address the malware came from is linked to social media accounts, past cybercrimes or other locations on the web. They will study the domain name it is linked to. And they will look for patterns to try to connect one crime to others.Success often depends on whether law enforcement can tie small digital details, including potential mistakes or a certain style in the programming code, back to the criminals. The location of where some of the ransom money is withdrawn can also help connect the dots.Sometimes the patterns that lead investigators to their target can be surprising. One state-sponsored hack was traced to Russia because detectives noticed those responsible were online only from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Moscow time, Ms. Lewis recalled. In another case, hackers were observing Chinese holidays.When Sony was hacked, officials linked the malware that was used to one that had been used before in North Korea. “That was a big clue,” Ms. Lewis said. “But of course it could have been deliberately planted.”In the recent hack of the political campaign of the new president of France, Emmanuel Macron, for instance, security experts were able to link the registration of certain website domains used in the attack to Russian hackers.Investigators in the latest attack are looking for clues in the ransom notes written in more than 20 languages. Some suggested that the assailants might have connections to China because the Mandarin version of the text was better written than its English equivalent.Once equipped with enough identifying data to start narrowing down suspects, investigators will go undercover to listen to the chatter on technology boards where cybercriminals are known to spend time. “It’s like using an undercover operative purporting to be part of a criminal gang, except it’s online,” Mr. Inkster said.“Half the dark web are cyberagents these days,” Ms. Lewis joked. “They’re tripping over each other.”One of the most challenging new developments for investigators is the use of Bitcoin, a digital currency with little oversight.In the latest attack, the criminals demanded ransoms ranging from $300 to $600, to be paid in Bitcoin.Bitcoin accounts, or wallets, are extremely difficult to trace. While law enforcement agencies have cracked cases by tracking Bitcoin transactions, the process is arduous.It could take months, if not years, for law enforcement agencies to pinpoint the identity of the attackers.Ultimately, in the world of computers, as in the physical world, investigators rely on criminals to make a mistake.As Adam Malone, a former cyberagent for the F.B.I., put it, “A lot of times we catch bad guys because they get sloppy.”

Sophisticated surveillance, once the domain of world powers, is increasingly available on the private market. Smaller countries are seizing on the tools — sometimes for darker purposes.NSO, a private company based in Herzliya, Israel, has hired former government hackers to ply their trades for foreign governments.CreditCreditCorinna Kern for The New York TimesSupported byBy Mark Mazzetti, Adam Goldman, Ronen Bergman and Nicole PerlrothThe man in charge of Saudi Arabia’s ruthless campaign to stifle dissent went searching for ways to spy on people he saw as threats to the kingdom. He knew where to go: a secretive Israeli company offering technology developed by former intelligence operatives.It was late 2017 and Saud al-Qahtani — then a top adviser to Saudi Arabia’s powerful crown prince — was tracking Saudi dissidents around the world, part of his extensive surveillance efforts that ultimately led to the killing of the journalist Jamal Khashoggi. In messages exchanged with employees from the company, NSO Group, Mr. al-Qahtani spoke of grand plans to use its surveillance tools throughout the Middle East and Europe, like Turkey and Qatar or France and Britain.The Saudi government’s reliance on a firm from Israel, an adversary for decades, offers a glimpse of a new age of digital warfare governed by few rules and of a growing economy, now valued at $12 billion, of spies for hire.Today even the smallest countries can buy digital espionage services, enabling them to conduct sophisticated operations like electronic eavesdropping or influence campaigns that were once the preserve of major powers like the United States and Russia. Corporations that want to scrutinize competitors’ secrets, or a wealthy individual with a beef against a rival, can also command intelligence operations for a price, akin to purchasing off-the-shelf elements of the National Security Agency or the Mossad.[For more stories about the changing nature of warfare, sign up for the weekly At War newsletter.]NSO and a competitor, the Emirati firm DarkMatter, exemplify the proliferation of privatized spying. A monthslong examination by The New York Times, based on interviews with current and former hackers for governments and private companies and others as well as a review of documents, uncovered secret skirmishes in this burgeoning world of digital combat.The firms have enabled governments not only to hack criminal elements like terrorist groups and drug cartels but also in some cases to act on darker impulses, targeting activists and journalists. Hackers trained by United States spy agencies caught American businesspeople and human rights workers in their net. Cybermercenaries working for DarkMatter turned a prosaic household item, a baby monitor, into a spy device.The F.B.I. is investigating current and former American employees of DarkMatter for possible cybercrimes, according to four people familiar with the investigation. The inquiry intensified after a former N.S.A. hacker working for the company grew concerned about its activities and contacted the F.B.I., Reuters reported.NSO and DarkMatter also compete fiercely with each other, paying handsomely to lure top hacking talent from Israel, the United States and other countries, and sometimes pilfering recruits from each other, The Times found.The Middle East is the epicenter of this new era of privatized spying. Besides DarkMatter and NSO, there is Black Cube, a private company run by former Mossad and Israeli military intelligence operatives that gained notoriety after Harvey Weinstein, the disgraced Hollywood mogul, hired it to dig up dirt on his accusers. Psy-Group, an Israeli company specializing in social media manipulation, worked for Russian oligarchs and in 2016 pitched the Trump campaign on a plan to build an online army of bots and avatars to swing Republican delegate votes.Last year, a wealthy American businessman, Elliott Broidy, sued the government of Qatar and a New York firm run by a former C.I.A. officer, Global Risk Advisors, for what he said was a sophisticated breach of his company that led to thousands of his emails spilling into public. Mr. Broidy said that the operation was motivated by hard-nosed geopolitics: At the beginning of the Trump administration, he had pushed the White House to adopt anti-Qatar policies at the same time his firm was poised to receive hundreds of millions of dollars in contracts from the United Arab Emirates, the archrival to Qatar.A judge dismissed Mr. Broidy’s lawsuit, but suspicions have grown that Qatar had a hand in other operations, including the hacking and leaking of the emails of Yousef al-Otaiba, the influential Emirati ambassador in Washington.The rapid expansion of this global high-tech battleground, where armies of cybermercenaries clash, has prompted warnings of a dangerous and chaotic future.“Even the smallest country, on a very low budget, can have an offensive capability,” or initiate online attacks against adversaries, said Robert Johnston, founder of the cybersecurity firm Adlumin and a key investigator on Russia’s 2016 hacking of the Democratic National Committee. “Qatar and U.A.E. are going after each other, and that war is getting very, very bloody.“The barriers to entry in this space are getting lower and lower.”Before NSO helped the Saudi government track its adversaries outside the kingdom, and helped the Mexican government hunt drug kingpins, and earned hundreds of millions of dollars working for dozens of countries on six continents, the company consisted of two high school friends in northern Israel with one relatively mundane idea.Using technology developed by graduates of Intelligence Unit 8200 — Israel’s equivalent of the N.S.A.— Shalev Hulio and Omri Lavie started a company in 2008 that allowed cellphone firms to gain remote access to their customers’ devices to perform maintenance.Word spread to Western spy services, whose operatives spotted an opportunity. At the time, American and European officials were warning that Apple, Facebook, Google and other tech giants were developing technologies that allowed criminals and terrorists to communicate through encrypted channels indecipherable to intelligence and law enforcement agencies. They called the phenomenon “going dark.”Mr. Hulio and Mr. Lavie offered a way to circumvent this problem by hacking the end points of the communications — the phones themselves — after the data were decrypted.By 2011, NSO had developed its first prototype, a mobile surveillance tool the company called Pegasus. Like its namesake, the Greek mythological winged horse, NSO’s tool could do something seemingly impossible: collect vast amounts of previously inaccessible data from smartphones in the air without leaving a trace — including phone calls, texts, emails, contacts, location and any data transmitted over apps like Facebook, WhatsApp and Skype.“Once these companies invade your phone, they own it. You’re just carrying it around,” Avi Rosen of Kaymera Technologies, an Israeli cyberdefense company, said of NSO and its competitors.The company soon had its first client for Pegasus: the government of Mexico, which was engaged in a crackdown on drug cartels. By 2013, NSO had installed Pegasus at three Mexican agencies, according to emails obtained by The Times. The emails estimated that, altogether, the firm had sold the Mexican government $15 million worth of hardware and software. Mexico was paying the firm some $77 million to track a wide array of targets’ every move and swipe of their phone.NSO products were important to Mexico’s war against the cartels, according to four people familiar with how the Mexican government used Pegasus, speaking on the condition of anonymity to discuss intelligence matters. Mexican officials have credited Pegasus as instrumental in helping track and capture El Chapo, the famed drug kingpin who was convicted last month in New York and sentenced to life in a maximum-security prison.Soon enough, NSO was selling to governments throughout the world, with the company claiming clients on every continent except Antarctica. NSO products — particularly Pegasus — helped break up terrorist cells and aided investigations into organized crime and child abduction, European intelligence and law enforcement officials said in interviews.NSO’s first client, the Mexican government, was also using the hacking tools for darker purposes — as part of a broader government and industry surveillance effort. The government used NSO products to track at least two dozen journalists, government critics, international investigators looking into the unsolved disappearance of 43 students, even backers of a soda tax, according to Times investigations and research by Citizen Lab, part of the University of Toronto.Those targets were subjected to a stream of harassing text messages that contained malware. Some messages warned that their spouses were having affairs, others that a relative had passed away. In one case, when government officials were not able to infiltrate the phone of a journalist, they targeted her 16-year-old son’s.Though NSO says it sells its services for criminal and antiterrorism investigations, none of the Mexicans known to have been targeted were suspected in criminal or terrorism investigations.“NSO technology has helped stop vicious crimes and deadly terrorist attacks around the world,” the company said in a statement. “We do not tolerate misuse of our products and we regularly vet and review our contracts to ensure they are not being used for anything other than the prevention or investigation of terrorism and crime.”The company has established an ethics committee, which decides whether it can sell its spyware to countries based on their human rights records as reported by global organizations like the World Bank’s human capital index, and other indicators. NSO would not sell to Turkey, for example, because of its poor record on human rights, current and former employees said.But on the World Bank index, Turkey ranks higher than Mexico and Saudi Arabia, both NSO clients. A spokesman for Israel’s Ministry of Defense, which needs to authorize any contract that NSO wins from a foreign government, declined to answer questions about the company.A lawsuit alleged  last year that in the months before his death, Saudi Arabia used NSO products to spy on Mr. Khashoggi, the Washington Post columnist strangled and dismembered in October by Saudi operatives inside the kingdom’s consulate in Istanbul. NSO denies the accusation. Several of Mr. Khashoggi’s closest contacts were targets of NSO hacking tools, Citizen Lab reported. Without access to Mr. Khashoggi’s devices, researchers have not confirmed whether he was a direct target of NSO surveillance.Even in cases of blatant abuse, NSO continued to renew contracts with its government clients. In 2013, for instance, NSO inked its first deal with the United Arab Emirates. Within a year, the Emirati government was caught installing NSO spyware on the mobile phone of Ahmed Mansoor, a prominent human rights activist.After receiving an onslaught of text messages containing links, Mr. Mansoor — a frequent target of Emirati surveillance — grew suspicious and passed the texts to security researchers, who determined the links were NSO lures that exploited vulnerabilities in Apple software to take over Mr. Mansoor’s phone. It was, researchers said, the most sophisticated spyware they had ever uncovered on a mobile device.The discovery forced Apple to release an emergency patch. But by then, Mr. Mansoor had already been fired from his job, had his passport confiscated, his car stolen, his email hacked, his location tracked, his bank account emptied of $140,000, and was beaten by strangers twice in the same week.“You start to believe your every move is watched. Your family starts to panic,” he said in an interview before he was arrested in 2017. “I have to live with that.”Even after the U.A.E. was caught spying on Mr. Mansoor, leaked invoices showed that NSO continued to sell the Emiratis millions of dollars’ worth of spyware and services. As for Mr. Mansoor, he was sentenced to 10 years in prison for damaging national unity and is being held in solitary confinement, where his health is deteriorating.A flurry of news reports followed about countries using NSO products to spy on their citizens, prompting the company to temporarily rebrand itself “Q,” after James Bond’s gadget guru.Despite the bad news coverage, NSO’s value continued to skyrocket.Francisco Partners, a private equity firm, purchased a 70 percent stake in NSO for $130 million in 2013. Last month, NSO’s co-founders raised enough money to buy back a majority stake in NSO at a valuation of just under $1 billion. The London private equity firm Novalpina Capital backed the deal — making its major investors, including the Oregon state employees’ pension fund and Alaska’s sovereign wealth fund, part owners of NSO, according to public records.The proliferation of companies trying to replicate NSO’s success and compete in an estimated $12 billion market for so-called lawful intercept spyware has set off a fierce competition to hire American, Israeli and Russian veterans of the world’s most sophisticated intelligence agencies — and for the companies to poach talent from one another.In late 2017, NSO executives grew concerned about a spate of resignations. Private detectives hired to investigate soon found themselves on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus, tailing a group of former NSO employees — all veterans of Israel’s Intelligence Unit 8200 — going back and forth to work at a research facility.The building was owned by a company affiliated with DarkMatter, an Emirati firm that had quietly hired the Israelis to develop technologies for the U.A.E. to conduct cyberoperations against perceived enemies at home and abroad.DarkMatter also has offices inside a gleaming tower on the highway connecting Abu Dhabi to Dubai, the same building that houses the U.A.E.’s Signals Intelligence Agency, the Emirates’ version of the N.S.A.This is not by accident. DarkMatter is effectively an arm of the state that has worked directly with Emirati intelligence operatives on numerous missions such as hacking government ministries in Turkey, Qatar and Iran and spying on dissidents inside the Emirates.DarkMatter has origins in another company, an American firm called CyberPoint that years ago won contracts from the U.A.E. to help protect the Emirates from computer attacks. CyberPoint obtained a license from the American government to work for the Emiratis, a necessary step intended to regulate the export of military and intelligence services. Many of the company’s employees had worked on highly classified projects for the N.S.A. and other American intelligence agencies.But the Emiratis had outsize ambitions and repeatedly pushed CyberPoint employees to exceed the boundaries of the company’s American license. CyberPoint rebuffed requests by Emirati intelligence operatives to try to crack encryption codes and to hack websites housed on American servers — operations that would have run afoul of American law.So in 2015 the Emiratis founded DarkMatter — forming a company not bound by United States law — and lured at least a half-dozen American employees of CyberPoint to join. Marc Baier, a former official with the N.S.A. unit that carries out advanced offensive cyberoperations, became one of the firm’s top executives.DarkMatter employed several other former N.S.A. and C.I.A. officers, according to a roster of employees obtained by The Times, some making salaries of hundreds of thousands of dollars a year.“The assumption used to be that when you left the N.S.A., you’d never do that kind of offensive work again. Now, clearly there is a market for it,” said Mr. Johnston, the security expert. He worked in the military’s Cyber Command, which works closely with the N.S.A., while serving in the Marines.“The N.S.A. should consider it their responsibility to ensure that the hacking techniques taught to employees cannot be used against the United States,” he said.The company did not respond to a request to comment, nor did a spokesman for the Emirati government. Asked whether the ministry had given a license for the former Israeli intelligence operatives working for DarkMatter, a spokesman for the Israeli Ministry of Defense declined to comment. A lawyer for Mr. Baier also declined to comment.Current and former employees of the spy agency have a lifelong obligation to protect the United States’ secrets, said Greg Julian, a spokesman for the N.S.A. They are also required to report employment or representation with foreign governments for two years after they leave the agency, he said.Besides its breaches of foreign government ministries, DarkMatter also broke into Gmail, Yahoo and Hotmail accounts, according to former employees. DarkMatter operatives posed as family and friends of the people they targeted to lure them into opening emails that contained malware.Former employees said that DarkMatter targeted Mr. Mansoor, hacking his child’s baby monitor to eavesdrop on his family. In another operation, the company’s operatives pursued Rori Donaghy, a British activist critical of the Emirati government and its human rights record, who had also been a target of NSO spyware. DarkMatter also targeted Citizen Lab, the Canadian research organization, a former employee said.DarkMatter told the employees that spying on American citizens would be off limits, but it proved to be an empty pledge.In one operation, not previously reported, a DarkMatter subsidiary began an expansive effort to intercept cellular communications in Qatar, occasionally catching communications of Americans in the surveillance net in late 2015. One American working on the project said he raised concerns with his superiors, including a former C.I.A. officer in charge of the effort. The American, along with another, was pulled off the project and asked to sign a nondisclosure agreement.In repeated instances, DarkMatter collected information about Americans, a second former employee said. Most of those cases involved Americans who worked for foreign organizations — including human rights groups — that DarkMatter targeted because they had been critical of the Emirati government, the former employee said.DarkMatter operatives would occasionally collect passport information, applications or résumés belonging to Americans who applied to work at these organizations. One former employee said that the collection was accidental, and the records were expunged from the company’s databases.In 2017, a former N.S.A. hacker began providing F.B.I. agents with information about the company’s activities, according to the Reuters report. Foreign Policy first reported the F.B.I. investigation.The informant, Lori Stroud, said she had become concerned about the company’s surveillance of Americans. She later left the firm along with several other Americans because they could not be sure that DarkMatter was not deliberately targeting citizens. Soon, F.B.I. agents began stopping American employees at airports as they entered the United States and questioned them about DarkMatter’s operations, according to former company employees.The Justice Department’s case, run by prosecutors in Washington, focuses on internet fraud and the possibly illegal transfer of spying technology to a foreign country.But the prosecutors face headwinds, including diplomatic concerns about jeopardizing the United States’ relationship with the U.A.E. — an influential country that has developed close ties to the Trump administration — and worries about how pursuing the case could expose embarrassing details about the extent of the cooperation between DarkMatter and American intelligence agencies.And there is the reality that American laws governing this new age of digital warfare are murky, outdated, and ill-equipped to address rapid technological advances. The rules governing what American intelligence and military personnel can and cannot provide to foreign governments were meant to keep a leash on 20th-century warfare — selling missiles or planes overseas or training foreign forces on Army tactics.But they do not address hacking skills that can be honed in front of a laptop, or at the world’s most advanced intelligence agencies, and sold to the highest bidder.“The worst part of it is the weapons are easier to get,” said Brian Bartholomew, the principal security researcher at Kaspersky Lab, a digital security company.“You’ve got a lot of people entering the arena that are new and don’t play by the same rules,” he said. “It’s like putting a military-grade weapon in the hands of someone off the street.”An earlier version of this article misattributed the source of a valuation for the market of so-called lawful intercept spyware. The $12 billion market estimate cited by Moody’s originated from the company NSO, not Moody’s.Scott Shane contributed reporting.

Supported byEurope EditionBy Dan Levin(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning. A prince gets hitched in Britain, abortion polls tighten in Ireland and a shock hits Cannes. Here’s the latest:• Let’s start with some good news for a change.The wedding of Prince Harry and Meghan Markle on Saturday was an extraordinary ceremony with strong elements of African-American culture that showed the couple’s determination to bring Britain’s royal family into the modern world.This video shows the highlights — and we made our own wedding album.The celebrity-filled ceremony featured a gospel choir and a sermon by the Most Rev. Michael Curry, the presiding bishop of the Episcopal Church in the U.S. It was a remarkable moment: A relaxed, charismatic African-American bishop, speaking to British aristocrats in the cadence of the black American church. Read his sermon here.And it left many asking, with joyous emotion: Who knew the royal wedding was going to be so black? Who knew it would be so American?_____• “We’re putting the trade war on hold.”That was the U.S. Treasury secretary, Steven Mnuchin, announcing that new tariffs on Chinese goods would be suspended while bilateral talks progressed.Larry Kudlow, President Trump’s chief economic adviser, added to uncertainty about the level of concessions China might actually offer. He said the $200 billion in additional Chinese purchases cited by administration officials was a figure that “interests the president a lot,” not an indication that a deal of that size is near.Chinese officials had denied making such an offer, and economists were doubtful because the figure is nearly half the annual U.S. trade deficit with China. Above, imported soybeans at a port in Nantong, China, in last month._____• Technology is disrupting European societies politically and economically, but how they’re responding opens a window into where the Continent is headed:Germany, home to a tough new law on online hate speech, is tapping its dark history as it leads the way on one of the most pressing issues facing modern democracies: how to regulate Facebook, the world’s biggest social network. Above, a Facebook deletion center in Berlin in February.In Armenia, young people, many from prosperous tech companies, formed the backbone of a protest movement that capsized the governing party this month.A small town in Wales is installing free Wi-Fi, erecting electric car chargers and partnering with a mobile payments service to shield struggling local stores from the impacts of online shopping.(And we tested how easy it will be for people in Europe to access their personal data compared with users in the U.S. The results were not what we expected)._____• This time in Texas.Our reporters reconstructed the timeline of the mass shooting at an American high school, above, on Friday. Survivors told how they fled for their lives, hid in closets, texted their parents, saw their friends die.The authorities said the 17-year-old suspect, Dimitrios Pagourtzis, had confessed and told investigators he spared certain students “so he could have his story told.” He appears to have been obsessed with violence and evinced neo-Nazism.One of the 10 victims was a 16-year-old girl who had, according to her mother, been rejecting the suspect’s advances for months. Another was an exchange student from Pakistan.Across the U.S., students are adjusting to the new reality of these shootings. “It’s like the front lines of a war,” one told us._____• When Deutsche Bank holds its annual meeting this week, high on the agenda will be ousting Paul Achleitner, the chairman of its supervisory board. He is increasingly blamed for problems at the troubled bank. Above, its headquarters in Frankfurt.• Among the headlines to watch for this week: Mark Zuckerberg visits Brussels, and the world’s most sweeping data privacy rules go into effect across the E.U.• Banks are adopting  military tools and techniques, like “fusion centers,” windowless bunkers and combat drills, to battle cybercrime.• More than 200 apps and services offer stalkers a variety of electronic capabilities to monitor their targets, including basic location tracking, harvesting texts and secretly recording video.•  Here’s a snapshot of global markets.• In Ireland, the once-profound influence of the Catholic Church has faded, but abortion is an exception, leaving the results of this Friday’s referendum on legalizing the procedure unpredictable. Above, referendum posters in Dublin. [The New York Times]• An envoy of Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates offered help to the Trump campaign in a meeting with Donald Trump Jr. and other advisers in August 2016. [The New York Times]• President Trump  is weighing the risks of meeting with Kim Jong-un of North Korea after the North’s chief nuclear negotiator declared that the country would not swap its nuclear weapons capability for economic aid. [The New York Times]• Roman Abramovich, the billionaire Russian owner of Chelsea, missed the team’s final soccer match after his British visa expired. The delay has fueled speculation that Britain is clamping down on Kremlin-connected Russians amid rising tensions with Moscow. [The New York Times]• Italy’s populist parties agreed on a platform for governing that would allow them to push ahead with an agenda that seeks to adjust the country’s relationship with Europe. [The New York Times]• Pope Francis announced that he had chosen 14 men to be the Catholic Church’s newest cardinals, including prelates based in Iraq and Pakistan, where Christians are a vulnerable minority. [Associated Press]• In Turkey, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has seized on the violence in Gaza to position himself further as a leader of the Muslim world before an election next month that could give him a more powerful presidency. [The New York Times]• Gunmen stormed a Russian Orthodox church in Grozny, the capital of Chechnya, on Saturday before being killed by security forces. [The New York Times]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Working from home is fun until it consumes your life. Here’s how to set and defend your boundaries.• Recipe of the day: Plan on ending dinner with something sweet: namoura, a syrup-soaked cake.• Want to experience Tokyo? Here are six tips to get there on a budget.• Meet Paolo Borrometi, above, one of nearly 200 Italian journalists who live under police protection because their reporting angered the mafia. “That doesn’t happen in other countries,” a press freedom advocate says.• The director Hirokazu Kore-eda won the Palme d’Or, the highest honor at the Cannes Film Festival, for “Shoplifters,” about a Japanese family on the margins. But the festival was shaken when the Italian director Asia Argento accused unnamed people in the audience of protecting Harvey Weinstein.• That’s a wrap: Hungarian archaeologists think they have an explanation for why only an ancient hand — and not the rest of the body — was mummified. But their solution poses a new mystery.Royal fever’s not over yet. (At least for us.)Today, we take a look inside Temperate House, the largest Victorian greenhouse in the world, which recently reopened at the Kew Royal Botanic Gardens in London after a multiyear renovation that cost £41 million ($55.2 million).The greenhouse was designed by Decimus Burton and opened in 1863. Today it houses over 10,000 plants, including some of the rarest and most threatened, from temperate regions of Africa, Australia, New Zealand, the Americas, Asia and the Pacific islands.For example: Taxus wallichiana, a Nepalese plant that is used to make a chemotherapy drug called Taxol. Researchers are now cloning it to help conserve it in the wild.The renovation was done by the firm Donald Insall Associates, which sought to adapt the building with modern technology to improve environmental control, optimizing air and light for the plants.A reviewer for The Guardian noted how painstaking the work was. Tens of thousands of items were removed and repaired, and 15,000 panes of glass were replaced.“It has been a mammoth undertaking, and the result is suitably breathtaking,” the critic Oliver Wainwright concluded.Karen Zraick wrote today’s Back Story._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.Follow Dan Levin on Twitter: @globaldan.

Supported byAsia and Australia EditionBy Dan Levin(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning. China’s hard bargaining, risks over North Korea and a death on Mount Everest. Here’s what you need to know.• China called President Trump’s bluff.Mr. Trump promoted his administration’s trade talks with China as a success on Monday, saying China would end up buying more American agricultural goods.But though Washington’s suspended tariffs on $150 billion in Chinese goods, Beijing has held its line, rebuffing demands and avoiding specific pledges. (Or as China’s propaganda machine tells it, the Chinese government “never compromised.”) Above, a steelworker in Nantong, China.A photo from the talks, showing Chinese delegates sitting across from much older American lawmakers, has gone viral in China, where social media users saw it as a symbol of an aging United States in retreat.And in our Opinion section, a Hong Kong journalist examines the inner workings of China’s vast global influence machine._____• President Trump is worried that his planned meeting with North Korea’s dictator, Kim Jong-un, next month could turn into an embarrassment.High on the agenda when Mr. Trump meets with President Moon Jae-in of South Korea at the White House on Tuesday will be the North’s recent about-face, in which it rejected offers of economic aid to denuclearize. Above, the leaders in Seoul in November.On Monday, U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo delivered a remarkably hard-line speech about Iran, offering no concessions to European leaders who want to do business with Tehran.Separately, John Bolton, President Trump’s new national security adviser, has been quietly taking advice from a limited circle of associates, some of whom have business interests that overlap with the National Security Council._____• “We feel at home here.”For Part 2 in our series on how rural Australian communities are dealing global changes, we have a story of rebirth.An influx of Filipinos has turned Pyramid Hill, a one-pub town of around 500 people, 240 kilometers (about 149 miles) from Melbourne, into a model for integration and revival.New homes are going up for the first time in a generation — and both the newcomers and lifelong residents say they have found the answer to rising concerns that immigrants strain resources in cities: small-town living.“It’s the only way to survive,” said Tom Smith, a pig farmer who spurred the town’s revival by sponsoring four workers from the Philippines in 2008.(Part 1: the boom that left Australia’s small farmers behind.)_____• We are all mosaics. We’re accustomed to thinking of our cells as sharing an identical set of genes. But the genome — all the DNA in our cells — not only varies from person to person, it can also vary from cell to cell, even within the same individual.The implications are enormous. For some, that can mean developing a serious disorder like a heart condition. But scientists have discovered that even healthy people are more different from one another than they had imagined._____• Banks are adopting military tools and techniques, like “fusion centers,” windowless bunkers and combat drills, to battle cybercrime.• US stocks closed sharply higher after American and Chinese negotiators appeared to de-escalate trade tensions.• Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad of Malaysia blamed the country’s $251 billion debt on the government of his former protégé, Najib Razak, the subject of intensifying graft investigations.• More than 200 apps and services offer stalkers a variety of electronic capabilities to monitor their targets, including the abilities to track locations, harvest texts and secretly record video.• U.S. stocks were up. Here’s a snapshot of global markets. (The Hong Kong exchange is closed.)• A Chilean survivor of sexual abuse said Pope Francis told him that being gay was “not a problem” and that “God made you this way and loves you this way, and the pope loves you this way.” The Vatican declined to comment on what would be a remarkable expression of Roman Catholic inclusion. [The New York Times]• A Japanese climber became the third person to die on Mount Everest this month. Nobukazu Kuriki had lost nine fingers to frostbite on a previous attempt to reach the summit of the world’s highest peak. [The New York Times]• A U.S. envoy reassured Taiwan that it was not a pawn in President Trump’s plan for winning concessions from China, but also dismissed suggestions that American Marines would be posted at his mission’s new offices in Taipei, a move that would raise tensions with Beijing. [South China Morning Post]• China launched a satellite to prepare for a lunar rover mission that will explore the dark side of the moon, state media said. The country aims to become a major space power by 2030. [Reuters]• China is planning to scrap all limits on the number of children a family can have, a historic end to a policy that spurred countless human-rights abuses and left the world’s second-largest economy short of workers. [Bloomberg]• Around 50 competitors have remained in Australia illegally after this year’s Commonwealth Games, and nearly 200 others are applying for refugee status, a government official said. [BBC]• Nicolás Maduro won a second term as president of Venezuela, in a contest that critics said was heavily rigged in his favor and which many voters shunned. [The New York Times]• President Trump swore in Gina Haspel as head of the C.I.A., amid his assault on what he perceives as the intelligence community’s improper actions as part of investigations into his campaign. [The New York Times]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Recipe of the day: Into weeknight project cooking? Order delivery and make a delicious black bean soup.• Smoking cessation, stress management and exercise can decrease the size of atherosclerotic plaques.• Our wine critic selected these 20 great wines for under $20, ready for the summer.• Hawaii’s volcanic ghost town: Our reporter provides an inside look at an island outpost devastated by lava and shaken by the jet-engine roars of the Kilauea volcano.•  An asteroid that shares orbital space with Jupiter but goes around the sun in the opposite direction came from outside our solar system.• Meet Paolo Borrometi, one of nearly 200 Italian journalists who live under police protection because their reporting angered the mafia. “That doesn’t happen in other countries,” a press freedom advocate says.Sherlock Holmes is “the most famous fictional character of the past two centuries, rivaled only by Dracula and James Bond,” a reviewer for The Times once argued.Even so, his creator, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, above, couldn’t wait to kill him off. Doyle was born in Edinburgh on this day in 1859.Although Doyle wrote four novels and 56 short stories featuring the great detective and his companion, Dr. John Watson, by 1893 he had become bored of his creation.In “The Final Problem,” Doyle sent his protagonist plunging over the Reichenbach Falls with his archnemesis, Professor James Moriarty, seemingly to their deaths. (More than 20,000 outraged readers canceled their subscriptions to The Strand Magazine when the story was published.)Doyle later said of Holmes, “I have had such an overdose of him that I feel towards him as I do towards pâté de foie gras, of which I once ate too much.”Although he eventually resurrected Holmes, Doyle also had time for pursuits worthy even of his eccentric sleuth: He helped popularize skiing, tried his hand unsuccessfully at politics and was knighted for his report on the Boer War.He also had a deep interest in the supernatural and helped popularize a famous hoax of the early 20th century: a series of photographs of garden fairies.Charles McDermid wrote today’s Back Story._____This briefing was prepared for the Asian morning. You can also sign up to get the briefing in the Australian, European or American morning. Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.

Supported byBy Chris Stanford (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• President Trump has intensified his frequent threats to intervene in the special counsel inquiry, demanding  that the Justice Department look into whether the department or the F.B.I. had “infiltrated or surveilled” his campaign.The president has said that an F.B.I. informant who was sent to talk to his campaign aides was actually a spy dispatched for political purposes. In fact, the F.B.I. sent the informant only after receiving evidence that the advisers had suspicious contacts linked to Russia.Legal experts said Mr. Trump’s call for an investigation had little precedent and could force a clash with the Justice Department reminiscent of the one involving Richard Nixon during Watergate.• Also on Sunday, Mr. Trump’s lawyer Rudolph Giuliani said the special counsel, Robert Mueller, hoped to finish by Sept. 1 the investigation into whether the president obstructed the Russia inquiry. A spokesman for the special counsel’s office declined to comment.• “We’re putting the trade war on hold.”That was Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin on Sunday, announcing that the Trump administration had suspended plans to impose sweeping tariffs on China as trade talks continue.Analysts warned that the decision could thrust the U.S. back into the kind of long negotiations that have bogged down previous administrations.• Separately, President Trump is grappling with the risks of his planned summit meeting next month with North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, after Pyongyang declared last week that it would not readily give up its nuclear arsenal. Mr. Trump is scheduled to meet President Moon Jae-in of South Korea in Washington on Tuesday.• After the mass shooting in February at a high school in Parkland, Fla., students helped ignite the biggest push for action on gun control in that state in decades.A repeat is less likely in Texas, where the survivors of the rampage on Friday at a high school near Houston are showing little anti-gun fervor. The differences in the reactions illustrate the difficulty of finding a consensus on gun issues in the U.S.Here’s what we know about the 10 people who died at Santa Fe High School.• At the Billboard Music Awards on Sunday, the singer Kelly Clarkson, a Texan, called for a moment of action rather than a moment of silence.• Even as Mayor Bill de Blasio has promised to add affordable housing, the system that protects New York City’s roughly one million rent-regulated apartments is profoundly broken, a Times investigation has found.It’s an age-old story in the city, but over the last 25 years, regulators haven’t been able to keep up with the progressive weakening of rent laws, free market forces, and the evolution of the rental real estate business.• If you’re a tenant in New York, here’s a quick guide to your rights and how to exercise them.• Cybercrime is among the fastest-growing and most lucrative industries, forcing banks to turn to military tools and techniques to fight it.• One of the toughest data-privacy laws in the world goes into force in the European Union this week. We tested how easy it might be for users in Europe to access their personal data compared with those in the U.S.• Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, meets with the European Parliament this week. It’s one of the headlines to watch.• U.S. stocks were mixed on Friday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets today.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Is it better to outsource routine tasks or to do them yourself?• Working from home is fun until it consumes your life. Here’s how to set boundaries.• Recipe of the day: End dinner with namoura, a syrup-soaked cake.• Nicolás Maduro  won a second term as president of Venezuela, in a contest that critics said was heavily rigged in his favor and that many voters shunned.• The nearly 40-year-old plane that crashed outside Havana on Friday, killing 110 people, is a tragic symbol of Cuba’s troubled aviation industry.• As you may have heard, Prince Harry and Meghan Markle married, and our colleagues in London and beyond were on it. The wedding day had African-American influences, a rousing sermon by a bishop and two dresses. We have video highlights and a selection of photographs. But if that’s not enough, you can find all of our coverage here.• Starbucks announced that people can sit or use the restroom at its stores without making a purchase. The move came weeks after two black men were arrested at a Starbucks in Philadelphia.• Justify, the Kentucky Derby winner, won the Preakness Stakes on Saturday. The horse has a chance for the Triple Crown at the Belmont Stakes in three weeks.• The Vegas Golden Knights reached the Stanley Cup Finals, becoming the first expansion team in the four major U.S. professional sports leagues since the 1960s to reach the championship round in its inaugural season. Here’s the latest playoff news from the N.H.L. and the N.B.A.• “Shoplifters,” about a family of thieves and throwaways living on the margins in Japan, won the Palme d’Or at the Cannes Film Festival. The event’s closing ceremony was shaken up by the director Asia Argento saying she was raped by Harvey Weinstein at Cannes in 1997.• Superhero versus superheroes: “Deadpool 2” earned $125 million to unseat “Avengers: Infinity War” at the top of the North American box office.• A trinity of opinions on “Heavenly Bodies”An art critic, a fashion writer and a Roman Catholic columnist walked into the Metropolitan Museum of Art. What followed was a lively debate about clothing and faith.• The New York survival kitLife in the city can be hectic: stalled trains, heavy rain or a run-in with an old flame.Our readers recommended 10 items every New Yorker should consider carrying at all times.• Quotation of the day“I was just tired of excuses, and tired of waiting for somebody else to fix it. I don’t trust politicians to deliver on promises.”— Katie Fahey, the 28-year-old founder of a 10,000-volunteer organization dedicated to ending gerrymandering in Michigan.• The Times, in other wordsHere’s an image of today’s front page, and links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles.• What we’re readingSteve Lohr, a technology and economics reporter at The Times, recommends this piece from The Ringer: “A smart, thorough oral history of the Microsoft antitrust case two decades ago. Victor Luckerson captures the context and why it resonates today.”Today, we take a look inside Temperate House, the largest Victorian greenhouse in the world, which recently reopened at the Royal Botanic Gardens in Kew, southwest London. It just had a multiyear renovation that cost 41 million pounds (about $55 million).The greenhouse was designed by Decimus Burton and opened in 1863. It houses roughly 10,000 plants, including some of the rarest and most threatened, from temperate regions of Africa, the Americas and the Asia-Pacific region.For example: Taxus wallichiana, a plant native to the Himalayan region and other parts of Asia, that is used to make the chemotherapy drug Taxol. Researchers hope that cloning the tree will help conserve it.The renovation used modern technology to improve environmental control, optimizing air and light for the plants.A reviewer for The Guardian noted how painstaking the work was: Tens of thousands of items were removed and repaired, and 15,000 panes of glass were replaced.“It has been a mammoth undertaking, and the result is suitably breathtaking,” the critic, Oliver Wainwright, concluded.Karen Zraick wrote today’s Back Story._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays and updated all morning. Browse past briefings here.Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. To receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, sign up here.Check out our full range of free newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.Follow Chris Stanford on Twitter: @stanfordc.

Supported byGood Monday. Here’s what we’re watching:• Can investors now strike a trade war from their list of worries?• G.E. announced a big deal for a transportation unit.• Our take on the new Theranos book.• Banks are using military tricks to fight cybercrime.Get this in your inbox each morning. Sign up here.The conglomerate has agreed to combine its transportation business to Wabtec in a tax-free transaction, valued at about $11.1 billion.The deal is the first move to shed an entire business since John Flannery became C.E.O. in August, and it likely presages more. Mr. Flannery said last fall that he wanted to sell off $20 billion in assets.Since the end of the financial crisis, G.E. has sold roughly $200 billion of assets. The company has moved to exit its finance arm, sold NBCUniversal and divested its appliance business that most people associated with G.E.Here’s a timeline of some of G.E.’s biggest transactions since the financial crisis.2016: Cerberus Capital purchases G.E.’s French consumer-credit unit, GE Money Bank for $4.4 billion.2016: Qingdao Haier of China buys G.E.’s appliance business for $5.4 billion.2015: G.E. sells its equipment and receivable finance businesses in France and Germany to Banque Fédérative du Crédit Mutuel for $6.5 billion.2015: G.E. completes the spinoff of Synchrony.2015: G.E. sells a division that finances leveraged buyouts in Europe to a unit of Sumitomo Mitsui for about $2.2 billion.2015: G.E. sells the bulk of a division that finances leveraged buyouts to the Canada Pension Plan Investment Board in a $12 billion deal.2015: Bank of Montreal buys G.E.’s transportation finance business for $8.9 billion.2015: Capital One purchases G.E.’s health care financing business for $9 billion2015: G.E. sells the majority of its commercial lending business to Wells Fargo for roughly $30 billion.2015: Canada’s Element Financial buys the bulk of G.E.’s vehicle fleet-management business for $6.5 billion.2014: G.E. sells 15 percent of Synchrony Financial in an I.P.O.2013: Comcast pays $16.7 billion to buy G.E.’s 49 percent stake in NBCUniversal.2009: G.E. sells 51 percent of NBCUniversal to Comcast for $22.85 billion.Paul Singer’s hedge fund lost when it took on Samsung three years ago. But the activist investor has claimed victory in its latest battle with a South Korean conglomerate, or chaebol.“Hyundai Mobis will withdraw the proposal in its current form in order to have an opportunity to supplement and improve the restructuring plan, including the proposed spinoff merger,” Lim Young-deuk, the C.E.O. of a Hyundai affiliate at the center of the fight, wrote in a letter to shareholders.Here’s how the hedge fund prevailed.The contextElliott took aim at Hyundai Motor because it was one of the last chaebols that needed to revamp its corporate structure and remove the so-called “circular shareholdings” that linked various company affiliates. But Hyundai’s proposed method — where an affiliated parts maker would spin out a part of its business and merge it with yet another affiliate for $8.8 billion — drew criticism as a way to help keep control of the company within its ruling Chung family.Elliott said that the restructuring plan showed management “has failed to act in the best interest of the companies and their respective shareholders.” It instead proposed turning Hyundai Motor into a holding company that it said was more tax efficient and sustainable.The hedge fund had the backing of shareholder advisory firms like Institutional Shareholder Services and Glass Lewis, both of whom urged investors to vote against Hyundai Motor’s plan. “Despite the board’s claims that the proposed restructuring plan aims to address the circular ownership issues, the transaction itself will have no impact on cross-ownership,” I.S.S. wrote in its report last week.Why Elliott could win this timeIn a presentation earlier this year, the hedge fund noted that Hyundai’s proposed transaction was similar to what Samsung wanted to do in 2015, where the company sold an affiliate to the chaebol’s holding company. There, Samsung was able to rally individual investors, who accounted for nearly a third of its shareholder base, to its cause.By contrast, retail investors comprise some 5 percent of Hyundai’s shareholder base. Big international institutions, which make up the bulk of Hyundai’s investors, are likely to be more immune to the entreaties of companies under attack from an activist if the campaign makes sense financially.The bottom line: It’s hard to say whether Elliott’s victory at Hyundai was a one-off. But the hedge fund does have some reason for hope: The chairman of the Fair Trade Commission, one of Korea’s top business regulators, is a former activist investor himself.— Michael de la MercedStock markets are up so far this month, suggesting in part that investors were betting that tensions between the United States and its largest trading partners would ease.That seemed to occur this weekend. The United States and China issued a joint statement on trade and Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury Secretary, said planned tariffs on $150 billion of Chinese goods were on hold. China did not seem to commit to much that is concrete to gain a reprieve from the tariffs, a notable achievement for the country’s negotiators.The joint statement said China would significantly increase its imports from the United States, but it did not say how much more it would buy and over what time period. The parts of the statement about investing in each other’s country and protecting intellectual property were even vaguer.President Trump on Monday nevertheless promoted the statement as a win. But influential members of his administration who are still spoiling for a big trade fight will no doubt want to keep up the pressure on China — and Mr. Trump may at times share their desire in the coming months. Still, the events of recent weeks show that the United States was largely isolated in its trade fights and the Trump administration may have lacked the resolve or unity to keep up its hard-edged approach. The Trump administration can, of course,reintroduce the threat of tariffs if it believes China is failing to make concessions in the proceeding trade talks. But after stepping back this weekend, it will be harder for the Trump administration to make an aggressive stance appear credible.Indeed, the big question hanging over the Trump administration: Why did it withdraw its tariff threat now, before exacting hard, quantifiable concessions from China? One reason may be that the United States needs China’s help in dealing with North Korea ahead of Mr. Trump’s summit with Kim Jong Un planned for June. Another reason may be that China was up for a long fight with the United States and signaled so. Whatever the cause, the takeaway for investors is that the Trump administration passed up an opportunity to show China that it meant what it said.Still, investors may not want to relax too much. Mr. Trump’s popularity has been rising even as he made combative moves on the trade front that at times roiled the market. In other words, there does not appear to be much political risk domestically, if any, to taking on China, and so Mr. Trump may use belligerent trade talk to stir up his base ahead of the midterm elections in November.But as long as he steps back from taking tough actions, investors will most likely take his rhetoric in stride. That stance has served them well. The Standard &amp; Poor’s 500 index is now up from where it was in mid-February when the Trump administration outlined its case for steel and aluminum tariffs.- Peter EavisAnalysts over at Goldman Sachs are out with a report on Monday looking at the holdings of 848 hedge funds with a combined $2.3 trillion in stock market bets.Here are some takeaways:Individual stocks• Hedge funds added bets on Facebook more than any other stock during the first quarter, followed by Microsoft, Aetna and Monsanto.• Amazon had the biggest reduction in wagers on it, followed by Apple, McDonald’s and Citigroup.Context: The data suggests that overall investors were buying the dip with Facebook. Shares of the social media giant dipped nearly 20 percent as the Cambridge Analytica scandal broke in mid-March. Apple’s shares were under pressure toward the end of the quarter as investors crew concerned about iPhone sales. After hitting an all-time high, during the first quarter, Amazon slipped at the end of the quarter as President Trump targeted Amazon’s business in a series of tweets.Sectors•Tech remained the biggest holding among hedge funds but their holdings overall decreased during the first quarter.• Hedge funds boosted their bets on the energy sector.• They remain the most bullish on shares of consumer discretionary companies.• The hedge funds cut their exposure to financial stocks.The U.S. Supreme Court has ruled that employers will be able to include rules in contracts that force employees into individual arbitration, even if they wanted to band together to take legal action as a group, over issues about wages and hours. More details from Adam Liptak in the NYT:The vote was 5 to 4, with the court’s more conservative justices in the majority. The court’s decision on the matter could affect some 25 million employment contracts.The magazine’s annual list of largest U.S. corporations by revenue sees some firms making big leaps. Here’s how to interpret some of biggest changes.• Tesla made the biggest move up the table this year, jumping 123 places to No. 260. But for some perspective, its revenue of $11.8 billion is still dwarfed by that of fellow automaker G.M., which takes tenth place with $157.3 billion. And profitability—or the lack thereof—remains a huge concern for Elon Musk’s firm.• Nvidia, the chip maker, has jumped 81 places, from No. 387 to No. 306, with revenue of $9.7 billion. That’s still a shadow of its rival Intel, at No. 46 with $62.8 billion. But while Intel’s profits have fallen 6.9 percent, Nvidia’s have jumped by 82.9 percent—a result of its enormous successes in providing many of the chips that are used to run AI software.• Charter jumped 22 places from No. 96 to No. 74, with $41.6 billion in revenue. That’s largely thanks to its acquisition of Time Warner Cable and Bright House Networks in 2016.• DowDuPont rose to No. 47 from No. 62, with revenue of $62.7 billion.• Coca-Cola fell 23 places, from No. 64 to No 87, reporting lower revenue and profits than in 2016. That’s partly a result of investment in new products as consumers and—governments—shift away from excess sugar consumption.Becky Quick of CNBC’s “Squawk Box,” reports that Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin is adjusting his comments, made over the weekend, about a pause in the U.S.-China trade war.She tweeted:Steven Mnuchin said this weekend, “We’re putting the trade war on hold.” S.&amp;P. 500 futures were up on the news. But the pressure is on the Trump administration to back up its tough talk on China — a task that may be more difficult without the leverage of potential tariffs.The fight inside the White House is still real. Free-trade supporters like Mr. Mnuchin and President Trump’s top economic adviser, Larry Kudlow, are still slinging arrows at hard-liners like the U.S. trade representative, Robert Lighthizer, and the trade adviser Peter Navarro. (While Mr. Mnuchin said the tariffs were “on hold,” Mr. Lighthizer said they were still possible.)The state of play, from Ana Swanson and Alan Rappeport of the NYT:The two sides have agreed on a “framework” under which China would increase its purchases of American goods, while putting in place “structural” changes to protect American technology and to make it easier for American companies to compete in China.But China didn’t guarantee increasing purchases of American products by a specific amount, let alone the $200 billion reported last week. And there has been little detail about fixing the tech issues underlying the trade fight: no firm plans to solve IP theft, and little hope of curbing China’s ambitious plans to become a technology powerhouse.Critics’ corner: Even a $200 billion Chinese buying spree wouldn’t help U.S. trade, Michael Pettis writes in Bloomberg View.Elsewhere in trade: Mr. Trump is reportedly happy to wait for as long as it takes to get a good Nafta deal. The British foreign secretary, Boris Johnson, is touring Latin America this week to gin up interest in trade after Brexit. Improving trade relations with Russia is reportedly a top priority for Germany.Update: G.E. has agreed to sell its transportation business to Wabtec in a tax-free transaction, valued at about $11.1 billion. Under the terms of the deal, G.E. will own 50.1 percent of the combined company, while Wabtec will own the remainder. G.E. will also get a $2.9 billion cash payment up front.G.E. was advised by Morgan Stanley and Dyal Company, the boutique investment bank founded by the former Goldman Sachs deal maker Gordon Dyal, as well as the law firm Davis Polk &amp; Wardwell. Wabtec was advised by Goldman Sachs and the law firm Jones Day.From earlier: The next deal to shrink the embattled industrial conglomerate, according to Reuters: a sale of its transportation business for more than $20 billion to Wabtec, a rail equipment maker. (The transaction would reportedly be performed using one of Michael’s favorite deal structures, a reverse Morris Trust — a similar tactic to that used by G.E. to merge its oil and gas business with Baker Hughes.)The chief executive of G.E., John Flannery, has pledged to reduce the company’s byzantine structure and focus on its fastest-growing core businesses. Making train engines isn’t part of that equation.Elsewhere in deals: Comcast is apparently considering very seriously a bid for parts of 21st Century Fox. Dell is reportedly continuing talks with investors about a deal for VMware. Ant Financial is said to be worth $150 billion (but investors must pledge not to back any Alibaba rivals). A breakup of Britain’s big accounting firms might be a good thing. Blackstone sold its Hilton holdings.“Bad Blood,” John Carreyrou’s heavily anticipated tome about the blood-testing start-up and its founder, Elizabeth Holmes, is out today. (How anticipated? Jennifer Lawrence is signed to a movie based on the book, and “60 Minutes” did a segment on the failed start-up last night.)From Roger Lowenstein’s review in the NYT:Even for a private company like Theranos, disclosure is the bedrock of American capitalism — the “disinfectant” that allows investors to gauge a company’s prospects. Based on Carreyrou’s dogged reporting, not even Enron lied so freely.Andrew’s bottom line: I read the book in just two sittings — it’s a page-turner. If you love narratives like “Barbarians at the Gate,” Mr. Carreyrou’s tale gets awfully close to that feeling of being inside the room, and watching a spectacular fraud unfold.• Rudy Giuliani said that Robert Mueller planned to finish his obstruction investigation by September — but only if President Trump sits down for an interview. The Justice Department’s inspector general has been instructed to look into the president’s allegations of an improper government inquiry into Mr. Trump’s 2016 campaign.• Donald Trump Jr.’s meeting with an emissary of two Persian Gulf states in 2016 suggests that countries other than Russia wanted to get involved in the election. (NYT)• The British law firm Linklaters is under scrutiny for its work on behalf of Russian oligarchs. And here’s a closer look at one of them, the billionaire Viktor Vekselberg, who has been linked to Michael Cohen.• Scott Pruitt has run into some problems in his deregulation campaign at the E.P.A. (WaPo)• The new U.S. secretary of health and human services, Alex Azar, is the rare Trump regulator who isn’t focused on deregulating. (NYT)• Don Blankenship may have lost the Republican Senate primary in West Virginia, but the former Massey Energy C.E.O. is still causing headaches for the party. (Politico)Cybercrime is one of the greatest risks to the American financial sector, according to the Treasury Department.How banks are taking that threat seriously, according to Stacy Cowley in the NYT:Former government cyberspies, soldiers and counterintelligence officials now dominate the top ranks of banks’ security teams. They’ve brought to their new jobs the tools and techniques used for national defense: combat exercises, intelligence hubs modeled on those used in counterterrorism work and threat analysts who monitor the internet’s shadowy corners.Elsewhere in finance: David Solomon’s era atop Goldman Sachs may start at year end — and here’s an argument why Lloyd Blankfein shouldn’t stay on as chairman. Deutsche Bank’s troubles have cast a spotlight on the firm’s chairman, Paul Achleitner. A top Citigroup banker sees investment banking revenues recovering this year.• Antonio Tajani, the president of the European Parliament, says that Mark Zuckerberg’s hearing with the legislature will be live-streamed. Separately, Germany’s online hate speech law makes the country a lab for testing how to regulate the social network.• A close look at why Google is under the regulatory microscope. (60 Minutes)• Europe’s new data privacy laws are proving lucrative for technology consultants. And a new study discovered more than 200 apps and services that can aid would-be stalkers.• Why America needs an A.I. policy. Microsoft bought an A.I. start-up to make its voice control software sound more natural.• Tesla’s entry-level car, the Model 3, could cost much more than $35,000, making it look distinctly less mass-market. The company has made public some of the software underpinning its Autopilot system.• Why investors in tech start-ups in the Midwest shouldn’t look for companies to emulate Silicon Valley. (The Information)• Sony’s new C.E.O., Kenichiro Yoshida, plans to move the company away from making gadgets. (Bloomberg)• Baidu’s chief operating officer, Qi Lu, is stepping down, raising questions about the Chinese tech company’s A.I. ambitions. (Bloomberg)“Should we own 50 percent of every company in America? That’s ridiculous, and we are a long way from that.”— Jack Bogle, on the need for limiting the power of the three big money managers (including his own firm, Vanguard) in Barron’s cover story• How the “Math Men” — engineers and data scientists — became the kings of advertising. (New Yorker)• Google has reportedly removed “don’t be evil” from its code of conduct. (Gizmodo)• Fewer companies are registering in Britain as Brexit nears. (Guardian)• To understand inflation, think of the U.S. as two economies: one for goods, another for services. (WSJ)• China is mining for gold in the Himalayas, which could aggravate tensions with India. (SCMP)• Roman Abramovich’s soccer team, Chelsea, may have won the F.A. Cup, but Britain hasn’t renewed the Russian oligarch’s visa yet. (FT)We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.

Supported byThe conversationLive in Helsinki, Trump brings his blame-America-first tour to a close.By Gail Collins and Bret StephensMs. Collins and Mr. Stephens are opinion columnists. They converse every other week.Gail Collins: Bret, there are so many things to say about the Trump-Putin press conference in Helsinki. But let me admit that my absolute top take away was that at a critical moment in modern American history, our president managed to mention his winning margin in the Electoral College.I’m not normally a speechless person but wow. Tell me everything you’re thinking.Bret Stephens: The 25th Amendment. You know the one: the mechanisms for removal of a president who is manifestly unfit for office. Gail: To think that just last weekend we thought he was only unfit for office because he was a morally bankrupt egomaniac with a very shady legal history. Those were the days.Bret: Also, I’m thinking about just what Sean Hannity, Laura Ingraham and the rest of right-wing punditry would be saying if it had been President Barack Obama at that podium, saying the sort of things Trump was saying, not to mention the way he said it. They’d call him the Manchurian Candidate. They’d accuse him of treason. They’d call for an armed insurrection or something close to it. They’d say he hates America. And they wouldn’t be wrong. Here is a president of the United States who repeatedly blames America first; who takes the word of a former K.G.B. agent over his own intelligence agencies; who promises to work constructively with a despot whose regime kills journalists, shoots down civilian airliners and uses nerve agents to assassinate its enemies abroad; and who aims his rhetorical fire on an opposing party instead of an enemy government. And the Make America Great Again crowd, with an exception or two, says pretty much nothing, or averts its gaze, or switches the subject.I’m not speechless, exactly. But as a disaffected conservative, I just feel like someone who’s trying to scream while underwater.Gail: The Republicans in Congress don’t exactly seem to be falling over each other in their rush to take him on. I’ve noticed the ones who are prepared to go beyond “Our national security officials are good guys” are heavily weighted toward people not running for re-electionBret: John McCain, to his continuing credit and nobody’s surprise, called Trump’s performance in Helsinki “one of the most disgraceful performances by an American president in memory.” But with a few other honorable exceptions — Jeff Flake and Bob Corker and Ben Sasse in particular — the rest of the Republican Mouse Corps was pretty quiet, perfectly illustrating why they have no business running Congress. Gail: Just thinking a little bit more about the serenity of last weekend. When I was so freaked out about the Russians and cybercrimes that I was imagining them taking down our power grid. Apparently top intelligence people in the Trump government were thinking the same things. And he took Vladimir Putin’s side against them, too. Bret: It just blows my mind — and breaks my heart.Gail: Do you think Putin actually has anything on him? Hard to believe even Trump would be such a patsy for no better reason than wanting to insist he won the election fair and square. Bret: My position is not to have a position until Robert Mueller completes his investigation. That’s why I find G.O.P. attacks on Mueller’s integrity and the investigation so pernicious. Look, maybe there are non-conspiratorial explanations for Trump’s behavior. Is he a stooge — or a schmuck? You can read his behavior either way, though as the former C.I.A. director John Brennan has noted, “people who go along a treasonous path do not know they are on a treasonous path until it is too late.” I think we need to use the word “treason” very advisedly, but what we heard on Monday from an American president should be cause for profound disquiet. Gail: Do you think this is the worst thing Trump has ever done? There are so many contenders.Bret: Charlottesville is another contender. But, because I’m the son of a refugee, nothing has freaked me out quite as much as Sunday’s front-page photograph of Adan Galicia Lopez, a tender-eyed 3-year-old boy who was reunited with his mother last week after spending four months in a government detention center. The thought that the government — our government — just put this child through that trauma for no other reason than Jeff Sessions’ fantasy that it will “deter” desperate migrants or otherwise help Stephen Miller work out his manhood issues turns my stomach as nothing else has in a long time. That a majority of Republicans support the policy turns it even more.In some ways, this worries me a lot more than whatever Putin and his cyber-armies might be trying to do to us. Putin is a former KGB agent, so at least he’s playing to type. It’s the trashing of democratic values from the inside that concerns me even more. Gail: Well put. And it takes me back to what I found to be the scariest, freakiest and most depressing moment in the Trump tour before he got to Russia. (The high point, I would want to add, was the way he screwed up the visit with the queen.) During his press conference in the U.K. with Theresa May, he warned Europe to watch out for immigration because it was “changing the culture.” It was such a pathetic call for racism to rise up. And then of course he blamed Sadiq Khan, London’s Muslim mayor, for encouraging terrorism.I guess that, as horrific as I find the stories about those poor kids being tormented at the border, I’m even more disturbed by the way our president is trying to promote this kind of ideology around the world. Bret: And he’s succeeding: xenophobic populism is on the rise in Germany, Sweden and Holland, and in government in Austria, Italy, Poland and Hungary. All are fellow travelers to Trump and Steve Bannon, who was in London last week trying to gin up the movement. And many of them are sympathetic to Putin, which is no surprise given the financial or ideological support his government has given people like Marine Le Pen in France or Heinz-Christian Strache in Austria. Gail: Oh God, Steve Bannon too. I think we need a rule about how many reactionary macho Americans can be allowed to go abroad at one time. Especially when there are so many other awful political thugs running around in places like Italy and Austria. Bret: That said, as important as it is to oppose these parties, it’s also important to understand why they’ve gained so much strength recently. The key is their ability to traffic in half-truths, to pick up on a legitimate issue and put it to an illegitimate end.Take immigration, Europe really has had problems integrating and assimilating immigrants, and a succession of center-left and center-right governments never seemed to get a handle on the problem. When the refugee crisis of 2015 hit, it just created an impression that European governments had lost the means and the will to control their own borders. It was certain to stir a backlash.That’s why I think calls in the United States to “abolish ICE” are so dangerous: They create the impression that Democrats want unregulated migration, as opposed to a generous but lawful immigration policy. And that just helps Trump and the Bannonites. Gail: For most Democrats, “abolish ICE” is just shorthand for getting rid of the Trump anti-immigration agenda. Although I do agree we could use a better code. Perhaps involving a quote from the Statue of Liberty.Bret: “Your huddled masses yearning to breathe free,” for instance. Go on.Gail:  During the presidential campaign I was very, very, very strongly under the impression that Trump had no opinion about immigration whatsoever, except maybe for the utility of hiring non-resident aliens to work at his various real estate holdings. But he got excited when the crowds reacted to that early, careless rant about Mexican rapists and drug dealers, and he went with the flow. Bret: You know, after the 2012 election he actually criticized Mitt Romney for the callousness of the Massachusetts Governor’s “self-deportation” message.Gail: I continue to believe that if those first audiences had applauded “milk for babies” we’d have an entirely different world dedicated to infant nutrition.Oh God, that reminds me of the fact that our government representatives attacked an international group for endorsing the idea of encouraging mothers in developing countries to breast feed. On behalf of the formula makers. Bret: It isn’t the least bit surprising, somehow.Gail: Let’s change the subject for a minute. Tell me what kind of an impact you think all the immigration fights will have on the fall elections. Would your average American voter want to support closed borders, racist rants about protection of “the culture” and little kids separated from their mothers? Bret: That’s probably the central question for the election. Will the appeal to the base — and “base” applies in both senses of the word here — guarantee a kind of Trumpian rip current that cuts through the expected blue wave? You know, what mostly matters in American politics is location, not turnout. If anti-immigrant sentiment plays well in Indiana, West Virginia and North Dakota, Democrats can pretty much give up their hope of retaking the Senate, even if they can rack up big numbers in, say, California. And Democrats should be careful about counting on a big Latino turnout: In 2016, Hispanic turnout was actually a little bit lower than it had been in 2012, despite Trump’s wretched rhetoric. Gail: Let me stop here for a minute and whine about the fact that no matter how many Latinos turn out in California, their state of nearly 40 million people is only going to be represented by two senators, which is exactly the same number as Wyoming, population 579,315. I keep harping on the fact that the real division in this country is between the empty-places people and the crowded-places people. Us crowded folk are virtually disenfranchised.But back to the election. What’s your fallen-away Republican recommendation to us Democrats?Bret: I think Democrats need to find a way to change the conversation about immigration, in two ways. First, stop feeding the perception that immigration is an act of humanitarianism by the United States. It’s a matter of self-interest: Newcomers mainly bring energy and drive and imagination and ambition to this country. Second, accept the premise that we need to police our borders, while making the case that we can police them better with a much more liberal system that diminishes the incentive to come into the country illegally. Gail: And maybe we can get somebody from Mar-a-Lago to testify on how hard it is to get affordable help. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. Gail Collins is an Op-Ed columnist, a former member of the editorial board and was the first woman to serve as Times editorial page editor, from 2001 to 2007.  @GailCollins • Facebook Bret L. Stephens joined The Times as an Op-Ed columnist in 2017 after a long career with The Wall Street Journal, where he was deputy editorial page editor and a foreign affairs columnist. Before that he was the editor in chief of The Jerusalem Post.  @BretStephensNYT • Facebook 

Supported byBy Jose A. Del RealWith the close of the year, the tally was in: Crime was down in the 30 largest cities in the United States, and even a worrisome uptick in urban murders had subsided.More than two decades of safer cities has cleared the way for major changes in the nation’s criminal justice system: fewer prisoners, shorter sentences and more pardons.But fewer crimes have not resulted in fewer police officers on the streets.In 2016, there were slightly more officers per capita than in 1991, when violent crime peaked, according to data collected by the F.B.I. Now, officers deal with half the crimes per capita that they did then.But hardly anyone questions the size of police forces. Not taxpayers, who might expect the decades-long drop in crime to produce some budget savings. Not politicians, though they have a host of competing priorities, like schools and hospitals.The notion of pruning the police inevitably raises the specter of more crime, even if there is little evidence to support such fears. The relationship between the number of officers and lawful behavior is not clear-cut. In New York City, for example, the police force peaked at more than 40,000 in 2000. Since then, both the number of officers and the crime rate have declined.In Chicago, notorious for violence and shootings in recent years, there are 44 officers for each 10,000 residents. That is almost the same ratio as New York. But though crime in Chicago declined in 2017, according to a year-end analysis by the Brennan Center for Justice, the crime rate there was still far higher than in New York, which recorded its lowest crime rate since the 1950s.Philadelphia also has about the same number of officers per capita; homicides there surpassed 300 for the first time in five years, but violent crime in general went down in 2017.The American city with the highest murder rate in the Brennan analysis is Baltimore, which has 41 officers for each 10,000 residents and would like to have more. St. Louis, where murders hit a record high, has 38. Each of these cities has many more officers than average for cities of similar size, according to an analysis by Governing magazine.The factors driving the crime rate are complex, mysterious and can vary from city to city. Data-driven policing strategies, economic growth and decreased alcohol consumption were bigger contributors to the overall drop in crime than having more police or higher incarceration rates, said Inimai Chettiar, the director of the Brennan Center.Last year, a study by three economists found that opening a new drug treatment center could save a city about $700,000 a year in crime-related costs. Another new study found that expanding Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act caused a 5.8 percent reduction in violent crime.Still, the police do have a bigger job than they once did, with a mandate that includes fighting terrorism, cybercrime and identity theft — much of which is not reflected in those F.B.I. crime graphs, said Meghan Hollis, a criminologist and expert in police staffing at Texas State University.Downsizing is not in their DNA, she added: “Police departments, as long as they have the funds, they’re going to keep their force size the way it is or grow it, regardless of the crime rate. They can always adjust their statistics to make it look like they need the officers that they have.”Officers are increasingly relied on to deal with mental illness, homelessness and drug addiction. But tough-on-crime rhetoric has made it hard to have discussions about reallocating resources to address those problems, according to Ronal Serpas, a former police chief in Nashville and New Orleans and a co-chairman of Law Enforcement Leaders to Reduce Crime and Incarceration, a group of current and former police chiefs and prosecutors.“American police officers are screaming, ‘Help us with mental health, with drug and alcohol addiction. Help us to stop using arrest to deal with these problems.’ ” Mr. Serpas said. “And then there are others who are screaming: ‘Crime is up. Help us arrest everyone again.’ ”Attorney General Jeff Sessions, for example, has warned that “violent crime is back with a vengeance” and advocated a more traditional law-and-order approach.But Mr. Serpas said he would like to see more cities follow the lead of Tucson and Seattle, which have funneled resources into special support units that are trained to deal with the mentally ill, taking pressure off patrol officers.Tre Murphy, a community organizer in Baltimore, said he believed that reducing the number of officers on the street would be beneficial to black Baltimore residents, citing the deep fear and distrust many black residents feel toward the city’s police. He said the money saved from shrinking the police force should be reinvested in nonprofits and other community development projects.“The answer to fixing trust inside the community is to not put more distrust into it,” Mr. Murphy said. “The answer to violence is not to put more violence into the community, and that’s what they’re doing by increasing the police force.”“In Baltimore, where communities are struggling, the only thing we get more of are police officers, who just perpetuate the cycle,” he added. “Instead of police officers, what would it look like to get more counselors in the community, people who are doing the work in the community?”Black Lives Matter activists, who oppose police brutality and racial bias, have regularly called for redirecting money from the police to community intervention programs, which could deploy “community conflict de-escalators, gang intervention specialists, and mental health response centers” to deal with nonviolent situations.There are few points of agreement between the Black Lives Matter movement and police unions, which maintain that officers are overworked and unfairly criticized. But they agree that the police should be better trained for the types of situations they are asked to handle. Employing fewer officers could free up money for better training, and perhaps also for higher pay.After all, said Chuck Wexler, the executive director of the Police Executive Research Forum, the police are called on to make life-or-death decisions. “I would rather have highly paid, highly identified, highly skilled police officers who can respond to these crises,” Mr. Wexler said. “I equate what the police do to an emergency room physician.”OpinionDavid Leonhardt

Supported byBy David E. SangerWASHINGTON — Shane Huntley has seen every form of state-sponsored cyberattack, first as an Australian intelligence officer and now as director of Google’s most advanced team of threat detectors.So when he was asked what surprised him the most about the 2018 midterm elections, his response was a bit counterintuitive. “The answer is surprisingly little on the hacking front, at least compared to two years ago.” He paused, and added: “And that reassures some people, and it scares some people.”He is right. From the cyberwar room that the Department of Homeland Security runs round the clock in a bland office building in Arlington, Va., to Microsoft’s threat-assessment center at the other end of the country, in Redmond, Wash., every form of digital radar is being focused on America’s election infrastructure — and particularly on the Russian military intelligence agency once known as the G.R.U.This weekend, some of those radars began to sound a few warnings — but faintly, and in strange places. Cybersecurity firms and some election officials reported seeing an increase in cyberattacks on websites and infrastructure surrounding the vote, but not on systems that are part of the voting process. Hackers have targeted websites across the United States — including in Georgia, Florida and California — that allow voters to look up the location of their local polling stations or to verify that they are registered to vote.It is unclear where the attacks are coming from, but the sources appear to be a mix, everything from other countries to lone hackers looking to make a name for themselves, investigators say. “The attackers are trying to make a lot of noise,” said Matthew Prince, chief executive of Cloudflare, a cybersecurity firm that is tracking the action.He said the incursions were not an effort to disrupt the vote, but merely to bolster rumors of election fraud and interference. “They are going after anything that can undermine the process itself,” he said. “Their aim is to put the outcome in doubt,” which could enable President Trump or losing candidates, come Wednesday, to declare that the outcome was rigged.There is no evidence yet that the Russians have had anything to do with this latest set of malicious activities, and many experts say they believe that President Vladimir V. Putin is sitting out this election. After all, the argument goes, the scrutiny is intense, and 470 House and Senate races make it just too hard for the Russians to figure out their interests, much less manipulate the outcome. But after the 2016 debacle, suspicions run deep, and some think that the Russians just haven’t played their hand yet.“The Russians are too smart to run the same play a second time,” said Dmitri Alperovich, one of the founders of the cybersecurity firm CrowdStrike, who was central to identifying the Russian military inside the D.N.C., touching off chaos in the Democratic Party. “If they were going to do anything in today’s environment, they certainly wouldn’t want to act until the very last moment.”Whether a Russian change of tactics is unfolding is just one of many mysteries surrounding this first national election in the United States after the most sophisticated effort ever discovered to divide Americans, and ultimately seek to alter the outcome, by a foreign power.If there is a lesson from 2016, it was that America was constantly taken by surprise — by the hacking of the D.N.C. and prominent Democrats, by the publication of internal emails, by efforts to get inside the voter-registration rolls of 20 states. In 2018, there are new and different warning signs: The Iranians have shown up, and states and local governments have done surprisingly little to harden their infrastructure. The Chinese are players, but not in the ways that President Trump and Vice President Pence have suggested.And the Russians haven’t exactly gone away. While there are few signs of pre-election intrusions into voter-registration systems, the social media campaigns never ended; some accelerated immediately after the 2016 elections. When the United States indicted Maria Butina, a Russian who was accused of running influence campaigns while an American University student, the government suspected Russian groups budgeted millions of dollars for continuing influence campaigns.“We shouldn’t be surprised by any of this,” Mr. Huntley said last week at a Zeitgeist, an annual gathering of the company’s leadership and many of its customers outside of Phoenix. “It’s like fighting the last war. When I was in the military academy people told us all the next wars were going to look like the first Gulf War. They didn’t. And in cyber, the next war won’t look like 2016.”So in the last days of the campaign, here are six points from the 2018 cyberpolitical battlefield:In 2016, the Iranians were nowhere to be seen in the American election process. This year, they showed up in such force that Facebook announced last Friday that it was taking down a series of Iranian posts, mostly, it seemed, to demonstrate that the company’s radar, switched off two years ago, is now on high alert.Intelligence officials and cybersecurity companies say the Iranians mostly appear to be copying techniques that they learned from watching the Russians, especially in social media. But there is a twist: The Russians and the Iranians are clearly not in political agreement here. While both have sought to exacerbate political and social divides, the Russians clearly showed a preference for Mr. Trump as Election Day approached, according to the conclusions published after the election by American intelligence agencies.The Iranians are playing the other side. “They don’t like what happened to the nuclear deal,” Yasmin Green, the director of research and development for Jigsaw, a unit of Alphabet, which is Google’s parent company. Speaking at a TimesTalks event held by The New York Times and Deloitte on Tuesday night in Washington, Ms. Green, one of the country’s leading experts on the uses and abuses of social media, noted that Mr. Trump’s withdrawal from the 2015 nuclear deal with Iran, and his reimposition of drastic sanctions, has made the Iranians determined to cripple him.“Not only are they anti-this administration,” she said, they are “pro-liberal.”By comparison to the Russians, the Iranian hackers are still pretty unsophisticated and are largely inept at imitating down-the-street-neighbors when posting to Facebook and Reddit. One ad showed a frowning Mr. Trump, and declared him “The Worst, Most Hated President in American History,” the kind of extreme declaration one might expect of Mr. Trump himself. Others sought to undercut American confidence in the way Washington operates, by showing two men shaking hands above a conference table and passing money below it. (“We call it bribery — they call it lobbying.”The number of these posts appeared small — about 82 Facebook pages, groups and accounts — but they generated more than a million followers.“It’s still early days and while we have found no ties to the Iranian government, we can’t say for sure who is responsible,” Nathaniel Gleicher, the head of cybersecurity policy at Facebook, declared in a blog. In other words, Facebook was making clear that this year it’s awake and the mass purges of deliberate misinformation, nonexistent in the 2016 cycle, will accelerate.In 2016, America’s big mistake was failing to understand what had been happening in Ukraine. Every technique that Mr. Putin’s hackers, from the network break-in artists at the G.R.U. to the producers of fake social-media posts at the internet Research Agency in St. Petersburg, used in the United States they tested in Kiev and the Donbass, the separatist area where the Russians have been stoking civil war.So it is no surprise, said Tom Burt, the vice president for customer security and trust at Microsoft, that the most active battleground is, once again, Ukraine. In the Microsoft Cybercrime Center, a giant digital map of the world shows cyberattack activity, but the number of attacks are adjusted for the size of the population. Ukraine shows up in bright red. The United States, with 330 million people, or seven times the population of Ukraine, shows up in white, a sign of relative calm.“We’re seeing activity in the U.S., but we’re seeing it at levels less than we saw in 2016, said Mr. Burt, cautioning that Microsoft, with its network of machines using Office software and its Azure cloud computing services, is more likely to see hacking of accounts than social media activity.Still, Mr. Burt’s group alerted two senators last year that a hacking group long linked to the G.R.U. had attacked their Capitol Hill offices, unsuccessfully. It was unclear if the goal was to affect their re-election campaigns or get into emails, because both sit on national-security-related committees. One of the senators was Claire McCaskill, the Missouri Democrat who is considered highly vulnerable. Microsoft also detected intrusions on two politically conservative think tanks in Washington in August.To get a sense of what is coming to the United States, Ms. Green and Jigsaw’s chief executive, Jared Cohen, a former State Department official, visited Ukraine in recent weeks and found that it was still Mr. Putin’s petri dish, a place where sophisticated new experiments were underway to deluge separatist parts of the country with disinformation ahead of military actions and a presidential election next March. Ukraine is “always on the leading edge,” she concluded.The question of China’s involvement was raised first by Mr. Trump and then by Mr. Pence, who said in a speech that “Beijing has mobilized covert actors, front groups, and propaganda outlets to shift Americans’ perception of Chinese policies,” and said a “senior career member of our intelligence community recently told me what the Russians are doing pales in comparison” to Chinese interference.But Mr. Trump and Mr. Pence were borrowing the terminology of cyberattacks to describe something very different: Efforts by China to publish policy arguments, often in newspaper supplements that have been paid for by the Chinese government for years, to make its case. There is no evidence, officials and outside experts say, of the kind of hacking that Russia has engaged in, or even much social-media use. (In Asia and Australia, in contrast, the Chinese have been busy on social media.)When three Democratic senators asked Dan Coats, the director of national intelligence, for an unclassified letter explaining what the Chinese were doing in the 2018 election, to truth-test the administration’s arguments, Mr. Coats avoided any potential contradictions with his boss by sending a classified answer.“You can’t have it both ways,” Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon, said. Mr. Coats, he said, “has an obligation to the American people to provide a public response to our questions, particularly since this is about America’s elections and the security of our democracy.”If awards were handed out for most-bungled-election-machine-management, Texas would be a strong contender for the top prize. It’s just that the problem is the machines or the voters, not Mr. Putin’s hackers.As early voting began recently, voters who hit the button to choose a straight Republican or Democratic ballot on a certain kind of machine — called a “Hart InterCivic eSlate” — had to wait a few seconds while the check marks filled in next to every name. For most voters, it worked fine. But if a voter touched a certain button and a click wheel, used to select individual candidates, the ballot could change. And there was no way for voters to see it changing.Bad publicity followed, and Texas blamed voters who couldn’t keep their hands off the machines, which were decades old. But in these nervous times, the incident underscored how susceptible many election machines are to quirks. That is another reason that paper backup for electronic voting machines is so important, so that voters can look over their selections, and so vote-counters have a nonelectronic way of conducting a recount, if the machines cannot be trusted.One would think that after all the concerns in 2016, states and counties would have been racing to update their systems. “Most did almost nothing,” Douglas Lute, a former American ambassador to NATO and Army general, who has taken up the cause of reforming the election infrastructure, said in an interview. The $380 million that Congress allotted recently mostly went to funding assessments of vulnerabilities.Yet while states and counties made changes, New Jersey, Delaware, Georgia, South Carolina and Louisiana still use no paper backup, and parts of Pennsylvania, a vital swing state, do not either. That has not changed since 2016, and it is unclear that it will be solved by 2020.The vulnerabilities of voting machines have gotten a lot of attention, especially at the Def Con conference over the summer in Las Vegas, which drew 25,000 hackers. At the conference’s Voting Village, it took an 11-year-old just minutes to hack into a voting machine using a simulation of Florida’s system. (The machine’s manufacturers called it a stunt, noting that physical security of the machines at Def Con was nonexistent. Still, the speed of the intrusion was impressive.Almost all voting machines in the United States are off-line and come in many varieties, making it hard to hack them unless you are sitting in front of the machine. But the computers that prepare the ballots are not, and at the conference, J. Alex Halderman, a University of Michigan professor who has published devastating work on the vulnerability of voting machines, held a mock vote that pitted George Washington against Benedict Arnold. Thanks to manipulation of the ballot software, America’s most famous traitor trounced the man who was, until the software was rigged, first in the hearts of his countrymen.That is only part of the problem. Many counties use old, insecure websites for their voter registration; it would be relatively simple to create “spoofed” alternative sites or break into them, to manipulate data or post notices that polls have been closed or Election Day moved. That could be the next move in the county-by-county activity seen in recent days.There is also room for mischief as votes are tabulated and reported to the state, and ultimately to media outlets.Eric Rosenbach, a former senior Defense Department official who directs the Defending Digital Democracy initiative at Harvard’s Belfer Center, which has provided training in recent months to election officials from 38 states, notes that is exactly what happened in Ukraine, “creating conflicting reporting about who really won.” The effort was intended to sow doubts about whether the entire election had been manipulated.The Department of Homeland Security said there had been little evidence this year of the kind of “probes” into the voter registration systems that created such fear in 2016. But Election Day hasn’t arrived yet.It wouldn’t take much to disrupt Tuesday’s vote in a few important swing districts, and that’s what the United States government — and many private security experts — are worried about.The Department of Homeland Security says it will be deploying small teams of cyberexperts to important states — presumably those that are most vulnerable, or have close races — just before the election. But it is not hard to imagine different scenarios that could cause disruption, or just create the illusion of disruption.A last-minute attack on county or state voter-registration systems, just to knock them off-line, would create an uproar from voters who might show up at the polls and find they could not vote. A strike at power grids, turning out the lights at polling places, or just disrupting transportation systems could suppress turnout and lead to charges of manipulation.Mr. Rosenbach’s group simulated such events in a series of scenarios with election officials, piling one attack upon another in an effort to get them to think ahead about how they would respond, all part of an election “playbook” that the Defending Digital Democracy program has given to campaigns and officials.And then there is another fear: Come Wednesday, if there are still races that are too close to call, just a rumor campaign about possible election manipulation might be enough to cast doubt about the integrity of the results. And in the end, that’s what election disruption is all about — undermining the citizens’ confidence that their vote counts.In 2016, the evidence of the extent of Russian operations on social media did not become clear until months after the election was over — and then, time and again, Facebook had to admit it missed all the warning signs. Mark Zuckerberg, a company founder, moved from arguing that to think fake news and divisive posts “influence the election in any way is a pretty crazy idea” to ordering the hiring of thousands of Facebook monitors to make sure it never happened again.But there are no guarantees. Months after the midterms are over, evidence of covert internet action that is currently going unnoticed may well surface. As the Russians and others embrace artificial intelligence techniques, and get better at targeting messages, they may well find ways to route around the phalanx of new social-media police. Ms. Green says that is unavoidable.“It’s still retroactive,” she said of monitoring social media. “We haven’t figure out how to do this in real time.”An earlier version of this story misidentified the state that Senator Ron Wyden represents. He is from Oregon, not Washington.An earlier version of this article misstated the year in which some social media campaigns accelerated immediately after elections. It was 2016, not 2018.David E. Sanger is a national security correspondent for The New York Times and author of “The Perfect Weapon: War, Sabotage and Fear in the Cyber Age.”

Supported byBy Benjamin Mueller and Al BakerThe night Christian and Tyler Toro’s grandmother died, the twin brothers gathered around a kitchen table in their Bronx apartment and opened a folder of computer printouts.The printouts were conspiracy theories pulled from the internet, including one about the meaning of the symbols on the dollar bill. Accompanying them were the brothers’ notes.“They were showing it to me like somebody shows a stamp collection,” an uncle, Jose Melendez, said on Friday. “It’s almost like childish nonsense.”For all the ways the brothers’ infatuation with online conspiracies seemed juvenile, federal agents said they were concealing a threat. Agents arrested the brothers on Thursday on bomb-making charges after a search of their apartment turned up a cache of bomb-making materials. On a kitchen table, agents found diary entries referring to an operation code named “Flash” and, in Christian Toro’s backpack, a purple index card that read, “Under the full moon the small ones will know terror.”The line appears on some internet comment threads, but the authorities still have not made sense of it, a law enforcement official said on Friday. Investigators have not identified a motive or found evidence of any possible targets, the official said, who added that any plan to detonate a bomb appeared to have been a long way off.The authorities have given no evidence that the brothers, both 27, were connected to any terrorist groups.“We have big blind spots here,” the official said. Investigators were still examining computers and other digital devices found at the apartment, the official said, and were also concerned about a note in a diary that raised the notion of throwing away evidence from operation “Flash.”Mr. Melendez said the brothers had fallen into a “kidlike fascination” with conspiracy theories that, to the family at least, seemed innocent. Mr. Melendez said his first indication of their interest in conspiracies was after the death of the brothers’ grandmother on Sept. 7.The official said investigators had also found references to the C.I.A. among the files in a computer they searched.The inquiry into the brothers’ activities began with an investigation into a bomb threat on Dec. 4 at Harlem Prep High School, a charter school operated by Democracy Prep Public Schools. Christian Toro taught special education math there.A 15-year-old female student was arrested and charged with making the threatening call.Christian Toro stopped showing up to work in late December and resigned on Jan. 9. Three weeks later, he was arrested and charged in the Bronx with rape for twice having sex with that female student over the last two weeks of September at his family apartment.After Christian Toro’s resignation, Tyler Toro returned a laptop his brother had used to the school, where a technician who examined it found a copy of a book that contained instructions for making explosives, the criminal complaint said. The school alerted law enforcement officials.Detectives went on to interview other students as part of the rape investigation to make sure there were no other victims. One told detectives that students were harvesting powder from fireworks for Christian Toro, the law enforcement official said. A criminal complaint says that students told agents that Christian Toro had paid at least two students about $50 an hour to come to the apartment, break down fireworks and store the powder in containers. It said the students appeared to have gone to the apartment from October to early January.On Feb. 8, the F.B.I. and police officers interviewed the Toro brothers, and Christian Toro told agents that he had come across the book while researching the 2013 Boston Marathon bombing, according to the complaint. He said that he had never built a bomb.A search warrant was executed on the apartment on Thursday morning and a bigger-than-expected store of explosives was found in a closet, the law enforcement official said, including a box with 20 pounds of iron oxide, five pounds of aluminum powder and five pounds of potassium nitrate, all materials that can be used to build explosives. Also found was confectioners’ sugar, which the complaint said can be used as fuel in an explosive, and metal balls that could have been used as shrapnel.A white Labrador named Harley, part of a cybercrime task force and a specialist in uncovering hidden digital devices, helped with the search, and agents found digital media that had indeed been hidden, the official said.Mr. Melendez said the Toro brothers felt guilty after their grandmother’s death for having been too consumed with their own lives to spend much time with her. He said Christian Toro was also feeling lonely, and it was during that stretch that he got close to the 15-year-old girl.The brothers both graduated from Stony Brook University around 2012, Mr. Melendez said, and Christian Toro went on to join Teach for America.Christian Toro taught math at Achievement First Crown Heights Middle School, a charter school in Brooklyn, from July 2012 to June 2016, the first two years as a Teach for America member. A spokesman for the school said he was not asked to leave. He began work at Harlem Prep High School in August 2016.Tyler Toro was a manager at Shake Shack, where Mr. Melendez said he traveled around helping to open restaurants. A Shake Shack spokeswoman said Mr. Toro was fired for unsatisfactory job performance on Jan. 3. Mr. Melendez said he had been feeling overworked.Neighbors described them as polite. A 35-year-old man who lives in the building said Tyler Toro once gave him and his young daughters coupons for ice cream at the Shake Shack where he worked in Yonkers.Another neighbor, Christina Nikac, 64, who is from Albania, said the brothers often dressed in suits and wore jewelry. She used to joke to Christian Toro that he should come to her apartment and give her lessons in reading and writing.The brothers’ mother often boasted of Christian’s work as a teacher, but last month, Ms. Nikac said, the mother was distraught. Ms. Nikac remembered her saying that he had stopped teaching and she did not know what was wrong.There were other signs that something was amiss. Edirenyi Tavares, who lives a door down from the family, said she occasionally saw the brothers bring visitors who appeared to be teenagers into their home.But as late as Monday, when Rabia Qureshi, 50, saw the brothers in the elevator, everything seemed normal. The family has a Puggle dog, rescued from an animal shelter. Above the mat outside their door hangs a handwritten sign reading “Take Off Shoes” with a smiley face.The brothers’ father left the family at some point, but periodically visited, said a police officer who for decades has lived in the building. He said the family had roots in Puerto Rico.From a young age, Mr. Melendez said, the brothers did not watch cartoons, but gravitated to cooking shows. He said they won an anti-bullying award in school. Tyler Toro dreamed of opening a restaurant.“They’re not terrorists,” Mr. Melendez said. “They’re not harmful.”The diary that law enforcement agents found, with an inscription saying it should be returned to Tyler Toro, pointed to the brothers’ feeling of grandiosity.“We are twin Toros strike us now, we will return with nano thermite,” one entry said, a reference to an explosive material.Another entry suggested Christian Toro’s arrest on the rape charges was a small hurdle.“If you’re registered as a sex offender, things will be difficult,” it said. “But I am here 100 percent, living, buying weapons. Whatever we need.”Annie Correal, Elizabeth A. Harris, William K. Rashbaum, and Nate Schweber contributed reporting. Doris Burke and Alain Delaquérière contributed research.

Supported byBy Andrew Higgins and Andrew E. KramerPOLTAVA, Ukraine — After four years of investigation by the German police, the F.B.I. and other crime-fighting agencies around the world, heavily armed security officers stormed an apartment in the central Ukrainian town of Poltava. After a brief exchange of gunfire, they captured their prey: the man suspected of leading a cybercrime gang accused of stealing more than $100 million.The arrest of Gennadi Kapkanov, 33, a Russian-born Ukrainian hacker, and the takedown of Avalanche, a vast network of computers he and his confederates were accused of hijacking through malware and turning into a global criminal enterprise, won a rare round of applause for Ukraine from its frequently dispirited Western backers.By the following day, however, Mr. Kapkanov had disappeared.A judge in a district court in Poltava turned down a prosecution request that he be held in preventive custody for 40 days, and ordered him set free. Mr. Kapkanov has not been seen since.Whether Mr. Kapkanov’s flight was the result of corruption, incompetence or a mix of the two has not been clearly established. The prosecutor general in Kiev, Ukraine’s capital, threatened to fire the local prosecutor but backed off when it became clear that the case had been handled by one of his own deputies.The Poltava debacle helps explain why Ukraine, a land of so much promise thanks to its educated population, fertile farmland and vibrant civil society, has a tendency instead to generate so many headline-grabbing scandals.Over the past year, Ukraine has been battered by revelations: off-the-books payments to President Trump’s former campaign manager, Paul Manafort; the creation in Ukraine of malware used in hacking attacks by Russia during the 2016 American presidential election; and speculation that its Soviet-era missile technology may have been smuggled to North Korea.The sagas are unrelated in their substance and timing. Mr. Manafort’s activities in Ukraine predate Ukraine’s 2014 revolution, while the others follow it. But they all flow in part from the same dysfunctions of a weak state gnawed by corruption and thrown off balance by constant Russian pressure, and the open vistas of opportunity for skulduggery that these have offered.“Why is there so much noise around Ukraine? Because Ukraine is the epicenter of the confrontation between the Western democratic world and authoritarian, totalitarian states,” Oleksandr Turchynov, the head of Ukraine’s national security and defense council, said in an interview. He denounced reports of Ukraine providing missiles to North Korea as Russian disinformation aimed at undermining Western support.But while Russia has worked steadily since the 1991 collapse of the Soviet Union to weaken Ukraine and keep it within Moscow’s orbit of influence — first through economic pressure and political meddling and then military aggression — Ukraine has also enfeebled itself.“The thread that ties strange things together in Ukraine is nearly always corruption,” said Serhiy A. Leshchenko, an opposition member of the Ukrainian Parliament and vociferous critic of President Petro O. Poroshenko.Mr. Poroshenko, he conceded, is better than his predecessor, the kleptocratic, pro-Russian leader — and former Manafort client — Viktor F. Yanukovych, who fled to Russia in February 2014 after months of street protests in Kiev. “But that is only because he is weaker, and society is much stronger,” Mr. Leshchenko said.Mr. Poroshenko, unlike his Russian counterpart, President Vladimir V. Putin, also has to contend with a lively free press that delights in probing and exposing government stumbles and the maneuvers of self-dealing insiders.And unlike the three Baltic States, which enjoyed brief periods of independence between the First and Second World Wars, Ukraine has only an acute awareness of centuries of subjugation by outside powers, among them Poland, Austria and Russia, that left its people inherently wary of authority.“What is Ukraine’s national idea? It is resistance to authority,” said Taras Chornovil, a former adviser to Mr. Yanukovych.Ukraine’s painful history as a put-upon appendage has left it ill-equipped to curb unruly habits at odds with the rule-based, scandal-shy order of the European Union, which it aspires to join.“Its attempts to stay democratic while building a nation are often messy, its oligarchs all powerful and, given the virtual absence of state control over media and oligarchic competition, post-Soviet corruption is out in the open,” said Serhii Plokhii, a Harvard professor and the author of a history of Ukraine.Ukraine’s domestic intelligence service, or S.B.U., its powers of surveillance greatly enhanced by monitoring equipment provided by the United States after Mr. Yanukovych decamped to Russia, has added its own highly selective and distorted form of transparency by leaking information about alleged wrongdoing, often for political or financial gain.Controlled by Mr. Poroshenko, the S.B.U. has become a tool in domestic political and business battles, with anti-corruption activists accusing it of working to undermine, not help, their cause.While still politically influenced, Ukrainian law enforcement is no longer the swamp of incompetence and corruption it once was. It has been able to monitor Mr. Manafort’s former business associates and turn up evidence of Russian hacking in the 2016 United States election, in part owing to American technical support.The Central Intelligence Agency tore out a Russian-provided cellphone surveillance system, and put in American-supplied computers, said Viktoria Gorbuz, a former head of a liaison office at the S.B.U. that worked with foreign governments.Ms. Gorbuz’s department translated telephone intercepts from the new system and forwarded them to the Americans. “This team would translate and immediately, 24 hours a day, be in full cooperation with our American colleagues,” she said.It is unclear whether any phone intercepts relevant to the election meddling investigation have gone to the American authorities. But a Ukrainian law enforcement official has given journalists partial phone records of former associates of Mr. Manafort.Dismantling Russian spy gear, however, proved far easier than purging Russian power, which has shadowed Ukraine constantly since it declared independence in 1991 but became far more aggressive in recent years.Since March 2014 Ukraine has lost Crimea to Russian annexation and large chunks of its industrial heartland in the east to rebels backed by fighters and weapons from Russia. It has also been used as a testing ground by Moscow for disinformation and hacking techniques later deployed during presidential election campaigns in the United States and France.Ukrainian officials invariably cite Russian meddling to explain why anti-corruption and other steps demanded by the West have often faltered. While Russia is a convenient excuse, it is also a very real menace.In Poltava, the center of town is dominated by a czarist-era monument to Russia’s victory over Sweden in a 1709 battle that sealed Russia’s rise as the region’s pre-eminent power and ended Ukrainians’ early aspirations for their own state.Now draped in Ukrainian flags, the monument nonetheless stands as a powerful reminder of Russia’s looming presence in a country that has struggled to create a functioning independent state on the fragile foundations left by more than 70 years of communism and centuries of subjugation by Russian czars.Igor Gavrilenko, a lecturer in Ukrainian history at the Poltava National Technical University, said the release of Mr. Kapkanov, the man accused of being a cybercrime kingpin, was typical of the dysfunction that has plagued Ukraine.“The whole situation is absurd, but nothing in my country really surprises me anymore,” he said, sitting in a park near the Poltava battle monument. “Ukraine is a country where anything is possible if you have money.”It was to Ukraine that Mr. Manafort looked for new business horizons after doing work for despots in Africa and Asia. Setting up shop in Kiev, he became entangled in a murky constellation of Russian and Ukrainian business tycoons and politicians, notably Mr. Yanukovych, the president ousted in 2014.Mr. Chornovil, who worked as Mr. Yanukovych’s campaign manager in 2004, remembers Mr. Manafort as “arrogant and full of self-confidence,” a showman who liked to organize big, splashy events that required lavish spending.A secret ledger recording payments to Mr. Manafort and others, he said, was part of a crude effort to keep track of all the money sloshing through Mr. Yanukovych’s administration.“Everyone was stealing, and the party wanted a record of who got what,” Mr. Chornovil. “They never imagined that they might lose power one day and the accounts would come to light.”Mr. Manafort, he said, often clashed with members of the president’s entourage but “had a colossal influence on Yanukovych for some reason.”He added: “He was not here out of any ideology but to make money. He was here exclusively for the money.”The end of Mr. Yanukovych’s rule in 2014 upended Mr. Manafort’s business in Kiev and brought in Mr. Poroshenko on a wave of reformist fervor.Left in place, however, was what has for years been Ukraine’s strength as a pluralistic society and also its fundamental flaw: a fragile state that is too fragmented by competing economic and regional interests to impose either Russian-style authoritarianism or European-style rule of law.“There was never a strong state on this land. Medieval feudal mosaics, fragile kingdoms and early-modern Cossack republics had nothing in common with European absolutism or Russian authoritarianism,” said Valerii Pekar, a lecturer at the Kiev-Mohyla Business School, in a recent article. “This is a country of balance, not of leadership. Nobody can rule Ukraine like a king.”The West, fed up with the dysfunction, has been pushing Mr. Poroshenko with only partial success to tip the balance away from the corruption-tainted oligarchs and Russian proxies who often held sway under Mr. Yanukovych.He did establish an independent anti-corruption agency and introduce a mandatory declaration of assets for officials and members of Parliament. But he has so far stalled on setting up a tribunal outside the existing court system to try corruption cases.Larissa Kulishova, the judge in Poltava who let the hacker go, denied that she had erred. In a brief interview, the judge said she had made her ruling “in full accordance with Ukrainian and European law.” She disputed an appeals court judgment issued after the hacker had fled that overturned her decision and said she had been wrong: “I don’t think I made a mistake.”Larissa Golnyk, a judge in the same courthouse, said she could not speculate on what prompted her fellow judge to free Mr. Kapkanov but expressed dismay at the decision.Ms. Golnyk has bitter experience of the pressures put on judges. Equipped with a secret camera by anti-corruption investigators, she filmed a representative of Poltava’s mayor offering her a $5,000 bribe to close a case. Posted online, the video produced a public uproar but no action against the mayor or his emissary.“Every time something clearly wrong happens I ask, ‘How can this be happening?’” Ms. Golnyk said. “I am always told, ‘Come on, you must be used to such things by now.’”An article on Sunday about scandals in Ukraine included a quotation from a Harvard professor who is an expert on Ukrainian history that failed to include all of the post-Soviet nations that have become democracies. Georgia is among the states that have established a democratic government; the distinction is not exclusive to Ukraine and the Baltic States.Andrew Higgins reported from Poltava, and Andrew E. Kramer from Moscow.

Supported byBy Nicholas FandosHOOVER, Ala. — The classrooms, tucked above a municipal court here in the Birmingham suburbs, are a long way from the White House. But walk through a set of secured doors and into the futuristic-looking work space, and you will find an important wager by the agency best known for protecting presidents, the Secret Service.Only it has almost nothing to do with earpiece-wearing agents or armored cars.Though the Secret Service may be better known for keeping government executives safe, it also has a mandate to investigate and fight financial and other cybercrimes. And in an era of overworked protection details and nonstop cybercrime, it could use some help.So here at the National Computer Forensics Institute, the pupils are hardened police officers, prosecutors and, occasionally, a judge. Instruction mimics what the agency teaches its own special agents. And tuition is not only free, but the Secret Service throws in travel, room, board and, for police officers, tens of thousands of dollars of technology to set up their own forensics labs back home.In exchange, the Secret Service has quietly empowered a network of thousands of law enforcement officers across the country capable of processing digital evidence and indebted to the agency that taught them.“The threat nature has increased in the world, and the threats are all more and more integrated with the digital world,” said Ben Bass, the special agent in charge of the institute. “So assimilating that into what we do is really important.”The institute opened in 2008 as a partnership between the Secret Service and the state of Alabama, which contributed space and money for its construction. At the time, few state and local law enforcement agencies had the capability to process digital evidence found on computers and cellphones, even as it was exploding in volume and importance. That left agencies heavily reliant on the Secret Service and the F.B.I. for processing and created a yearslong backlog in many cases.The Secret Service reasoned that it would be critical to the future of its mission — not to mention the effectiveness of local and state law enforcement — to try to change that. The program remains the only one of its kind and scale in the country.Though its protective mission occupies the public’s attention, the Secret Service has been investigating crimes since 1865, when President Lincoln saw the need to create a small force of investigators within the Treasury Department to combat counterfeit currency that was undermining American markets. That mandate has changed and widened in the decades since, along with threats to the country’s financial systems, and the agency now investigates bank fraud, credit card fraud, identity theft, child exploitation as well as counterfeiting.It does so with a reasonably small force. The majority of the Secret Service’s 3,300 agents work out of field offices. The F.B.I., by comparison, has more than 13,000. To amplify its effect, the agency relies on dozens of electronic and financial crimes task forces across the country, where local and state law officers and people in academia and businesses work alongside its own agents.The help has arrived at the right time for the agency, where in recent years low morale, high attrition and more people to protect in more places have conspired to pinch resources. Because protection is a nonnegotiable task, investigations often take the hit.The effect can be significant. In the 2016 fiscal year, the agency spent 65 percent of its time on protection and 35 percent on investigative work, according to calculations it shared with members of the House Oversight Committee. That was an election year, when protection demands are highest. But it appears the ratio for this fiscal year — which only included the last month or so of the campaign — has not changed much, with 60 percent of time going to protection through the end of May. Typically it would be about 40 percent for a post-campaign fiscal year.Robert Novy, the deputy assistant director for investigations, said the task forces help ensure that cases continue to move forward regardless of protection demands. He also said that they have begun to free the Secret Service’s own staff to focus on larger-scale cyberthreats and high-dollar financial crimes.“By elevating their capacities and capabilities, it allows us to focus on finding ways to counter more significant financial threats,” Mr. Novy said.Still, building the program has proved challenging. A decade after it first opened its doors, the institute trains about 1,100 people a year. But it is running at between 30 percent and 40 percent of capacity because of a shortage of federal funds. For some programs, would-be enrollees can wait as long as three years.Its financial outlook remains uncertain. President Trump’s 2018 budget proposal zeroed out the program, though Randolph D. Alles, the agency’s new director, told lawmakers last month that he considered it “critical” to the agency and would move money from elsewhere in his budget to pay for it if need be. At the same time, lawmakers in the House and Senate have introduced legislation that could stabilize its funding.The institute’s finances appeared to be on few minds on a recent early summer day in Hoover, where a class of two dozen prosecutors sat in neat classroom rows, computers humming beside their feet, as data from the cellphone of a fictitious drug smuggler flashed onto their computer screens. The evidence was all there in ordered folders: call logs, texts, even compromising photographs of a would-be drug dealer, made visible by powerful software and a few patient instructors.One room away and a few hours later, two dozen police officers packed into a wood-trimmed mock courtroom listened to another instructor hold forth from the witness stand on the ins and outs of being a good forensics witness. The key, he said, is balancing the use of technical details like “master boot records” and “disk partitions” with the bigger picture a less tech-savvy jury can more easily grasp.“I need to be able to understand it so I can translate it when I go before a panel of 12 people,” said Jennifer Eugene, a prosecutor from New Jersey, describing her experience in front of a jury. “The law has not caught up with where the technology is.”A five-week course for police on the basics of computer evidence recovery is the most popular, and graduates of the course leave here with $28,000 worth of technology and the ability to search seized computers for evidence of a crime. A similar course on mobile devices is growing in popularity. And more advanced courses cover network intrusion.Prosecutors and judges can take shorter courses meant to familiarize them with digital evidence, which is still relatively new to many courtrooms.But the mutual benefits of the program were on display, too. Frank Garibay, a detective with the San Antonio Police Department who had returned to the institute as a proctor after taking coursework himself, said his training here had transformed what his department could do.It had also meant that when officials from the Texas Rangers and Homeland Security Investigations zeroed in on an illegal gambling ring in Texas, they could turn to the Secret Service’s San Antonio-based electronic crimes task force, including Mr. Garibay, for help.The Secret Service paid for members of its task force to travel to the small South Texas town of Falfurrias for a weekend to set up a war room to process digital evidence.The operation ended up taking down about a dozen illegal casinos, recovered almost $6 million, exposed drug and human trafficing rings, and ultimately public corruption.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the Morning Briefing newsletter.

Supported byBy Zeynep TufekciLast week, Americans woke up to news of yet another mass breach of their personal data. The consumer credit reporting agency Equifax revealed that as many as 143 million Americans’ Social Security numbers, dates of birth, names and addresses may have been stolen from its files — just the kind of information that allows for identity theft and other cybercrimes.I don’t know about you, but I’ve lost count of the number of times in recent years that I’ve been informed by a corporation of such a breach. “We regret to inform you ….” I don’t doubt that companies regret these things, but I don’t think they care that much either. To them it means just a few days of bad press and at most a fine that amounts to a minuscule portion of their profits. With penalties like that, why would companies bother to make things better?There are technical factors that explain why cybersecurity is so weak, but the underlying reason is political, and it’s pretty simple: Big corporations have poured large amounts of money into our political system, helping to create a regulatory environment in which consumers shoulder more and more of the risk, and companies less and less.This is a general feature of our lopsided world, but software businesses (and the technology sides of other companies) have acquired perhaps the greatest degree of impunity. Information technology arrived on the scene only recently, so it has faced fewer of the kinds of regulations that consumers and citizens, in more progressive eras, managed to impose on other industries.Today, almost every piece of software comes with a disclaimer on its user license that basically says that the product may not work as intended and that its maker may stop supporting it at any time, and that’s the user’s problem. It’s a wonder companies don’t insert “nyah nyah nyah nyah” into the tiny-print legalese.Don’t get me wrong: I’m a former programmer; I’m not unsympathetic to the needs of software developers. Some number of unexpected errors — bugs — are unavoidable in computer programs. It would be unreasonable to allow a consumer to sue a software company every time a program suffered a glitch.But the situation was different when the industry was younger and wasn’t rolling in billions of dollars, as it is now. Most software failures and data breaches aren’t inevitable; they are a result of neglect and underinvestment in product reliability and security.No software system can be free from bugs (or intruders), and users must be mindful of the risks. But the inherent lack of perfect automotive safety doesn’t mean we don’t try to make cars safer. Obviously, people should drive more carefully, but seatbelts, airbags and better car design reduce injury enormously, and that has been great for the industry as well as consumers. The software industry should be no different.Perhaps the most maddening part of the Equifax breach is that the credit-rating industry is itself unforgiving in its approach to even the smallest error. I’m still dealing with the damage to my credit rating that resulted when I forgot to return a library book and a collection agency was called in (for a paltry sum). The Equifax executives who let my data be stolen will probably suffer fewer consequences than I will for an overdue library book. Even if they do get fired, it is likely that they will be sent off with millions of dollars in severance, which is common practice for executives. (I would like to note that I am available for such punishment any time.)I’ve taught at a wide range of universities. I’ve found that institutions serving less-advantaged students tend to have less-forgiving policies for late papers, missed exams, casual drug use and so forth, whereas more elite institutions tend to be more forgiving. All young people deserve compassion, second chances and flexibility — but the poorer ones even more so, since they have fewer resources with which to combat adversity when it strikes. Yet the reality is the opposite.Along with news of the breach came reports that three Equifax executives sold $2 million worth of stock shortly after the breach was discovered in July. In their defense, Equifax said that the executives were not aware of the breach — and that the amount was only “a small percentage of their Equifax shares.” It’s almost as if the company is saying: Come on, would we engage in insider trading for a mere $2 million?As long as impunity for corporations and their executives is the norm, data breaches will continue to happen. What should you do? It’s easy: Just make sure to change your name, Social Security number and home address regularly — and don’t go crying if you neglect to do that and suffer the consequences of your actions. It’s not as if you’re are a rich executive.Zeynep Tufekci (@zeynep), an associate professor at the School of Information and Library Science at the University of North Carolina, is the author of “Twitter and Tear Gas: The Power and Fragility of Networked Protest” and a contributing opinion writer.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 

The personal payment platform Zelle is flourishing. But so are fraudsters, who are exploiting weaknesses in the banks’ security.CreditCreditTyler ComrieSupported byBy Stacy CowleyBig banks are making it easy to zap money to your friends. Maybe too easy.Zelle, a service that allows bank customers to instantly send money to their acquaintances, is booming. Thousands of new users sign up every day. Some $75 billion zoomed through Zelle’s network last year. That’s more than twice the amount of money that customers transferred with Venmo, a rival money-transfer app.But the same features that make Zelle so useful for customers, its speed and ubiquity, have made it irresistible to thieves. Hackers and con artists have used the system to steal from victims — some of whom had never used Zelle or even heard of it until someone used it to clean out their bank accounts.Interviews with more than two dozen customers who had their money stolen through Zelle illustrate the weaknesses that criminals are using in targeting the network. While all financial systems are susceptible to fraud, aspects of Zelle’s design, like not always notifying customers when money is transferred — some banks do; others don’t — have contributed to the system’s vulnerability. And some customers who lost money were made whole by their banks; others were not.For the banks, Zelle is a big — and must-win — bet on where money is headed. As consumers become increasingly accustomed to splitting dinner checks, paying for their coffee and hailing an Uber without touching paper money, banks are rushing to stake their claim on the wallet of the future.■ Take our quiz to find out how often your personal data has been exposed to hackers.■ What to do if your email has been hacked. ■ How to protect yourself from ransomware attacks. In recent years, apps such as Venmo (which is owned by PayPal), Popmoney, Square Cash and Apple Pay made digital cash transfers quick and simple. Banks were falling behind. So they joined up to create a rival product, run by Early Warning Services, a Scottsdale, Ariz., consortium that is jointly owned by seven large banks.Last June, Early Warning introduced Zelle. It is built directly into each bank’s mobile app, making the system easy to use for customers — or thieves who gain access to their accounts.The scale of the problem is hard to pinpoint, because Zelle is fairly new and banks do not report much data about it. But banking analysts say they have seen some alarming incidents.“I know of one bank that was experiencing a 90 percent fraud rate on Zelle transactions, which is insane,” said Genevieve Gimbert, a partner in PwC’s financial crimes unit. Most banks have strong authentication and fraud-detection controls for Zelle, she said, but some “just implemented it without any protections” like two-factor authentication and user-behavior monitoring.Zelle said the problem was under control.“There are very few incidents,” said Lou Anne Alexander, Early Warning’s head of payments. “When there is a problem, we and the banks are proactive. It’s not something we’re putting our heads in the sand about.”Eighteen banks in the United States, including most of the biggest players, are using Zelle, and 70 more are in the process of setting it up. Collectively, they connect about half of the traditional checking accounts in the United States. Cash transfers within the network often take place within seconds — much faster than on most of its rival payment services. That has made it more difficult for banks to halt or reverse illicit transactions.Security is a cornerstone of Zelle’s marketing campaign. In one TV commercial, Daveed Diggs, an actor and rapper known for “Hamilton” and “black-ish,” is encouraged to pay for playoff tickets through Zelle by another actor who raps: “You can send money safely, ’cause that’s what it’s for, and it’s backed by the banks, so you know it’s secure.”But the system has had problems. Brian Kemm, a Bank of America customer in Pasadena, Calif., lost $300 because of a misdirected payment.To transfer money through Zelle, the sender enters the recipient’s phone number or email address. Zelle is built on the assumption that each of those identifiers is unique to one person.Last November, Mr. Kemm tried to send cash to his mother, Carol Kemm, who is also a Bank of America customer. He typed in the mobile phone number Ms. Kemm had been using for at least three years and hit “send.”“She told me she didn’t get it, and my first thought was, ‘Mom, you’re not being very tech-savvy,’” Mr. Kemm said. “Eventually, after a few days, I realized it really didn’t get there.”When he called Bank of America’s customer service line, he learned that the $300 had been transferred — to a JPMorgan Chase bank account, whose owner had registered the same phone number Ms. Kemm used. He said he was told that there was nothing Bank of America could do to get his money back.Mr. Kemm filed a police report and a fraud claim with Bank of America. On Nov. 30, the bank sent him a reply: “Our records indicate that we initiated the transfer in accordance with your instructions. As a result, your account will not be credited for this claim.”After being contacted for this article, Bank of America said it would refund Mr. Kemm.“In general, in cases in which the mobile number was previously registered to another person and directed to that account, we’ll work with the receiving bank to reverse the transaction,” said Betty Riess, a bank spokeswoman.Another Bank of America customer, Heather Pocorobba, went hunting on March 18 for tickets to a Justin Timberlake concert. On Craigslist, she found two good seats for $260. The seller suggested she pay with Zelle.“I naïvely believed that since my bank uses it, the accounts must be connected to real people, with some sort of protection built in,” Ms. Pocorobba said.As soon as she sent the cash, the seller stopped answering her text messages. She never got the tickets — or her money back. She reported the fraud to the police and her bank.Bank of America’s fine print about Zelle tells customers: “You are protected by the same security you’re used to where you will not be liable for fraudulent transactions.”The catch is that the bank, like all the others that use Zelle, only considers transactions fraudulent if the customer did not authorize them. When a customer knowingly sends money to someone, the bank offers no protection against rip-offs. (Credit cards, by contrast, protect users against such scammers.)“We’re committed to ensuring consumers are aware of potential scams, including reminding them that Zelle is intended for sending funds to friends, family or people they know,” said Ms. Riess, the Bank of America spokeswoman.Bob Sullivan, an author who specializes in cybercrime and consumer protection, said he was stunned by how poorly the banks had communicated Zelle’s risks — and by their failure to learn from the painful lessons of the past.Craigslist, PayPal and Venmo faced early criticism for leaving users vulnerable to fraud. In response, each made changes. Craigslist, for example, added a warning about scams on every sale listing. PayPal increased the protections it offers on some digital sales and provided a detailed disclosure about what transactions it will and won’t protect.And Venmo — which, like Zelle, does not protect users if a seller does not deliver what they promised — upgraded its security policies in 2015 to better detect fraud, including by notifying customers when someone adds an email address or new device to their account. This year, the Federal Trade Commission criticized the company for not having those protections in place from the start.Customers have to hunt on Zelle’s website to get to this red flag: “Neither Zelle nor the participating financial institutions offer a protection program for any purchase or sale conducted using Zelle.” Some banks, such as JPMorgan, don’t notify customers when new recipients are linked to their Zelle accounts.David Nowicki, a BB&amp;T customer, discovered in March that someone had gained access to his online accounts and used Zelle to steal $4,000. Mr. Nowicki said he had never received any email or phone notifications about the transactions, or about a new computer accessing his account.After he filed a fraud claim with BB&amp;T, and a police report, the bank refunded his loss.“We have multiple layers of security measures,” said David R. White, a BB&amp;T spokesman. “Clients are protected and reimbursed for any unauthorized transactions.”BB&amp;T sends email notices about Zelle transactions, Mr. White said. Mr. Nowicki, however, said he was certain he had not received any.Jane Butler, a Wells Fargo customer in Downingtown, Pa., first heard of Zelle when it was used to steal $2,500 from her bank account.The con was elaborate. First, a phishing email that appeared to be from Wells Fargo tricked her into entering her bank ID and password into a fraudulent website. The next day, Ms. Butler got a call that appeared to be from Wells Fargo’s fraud department. The number she saw displayed on her phone screen matched the phone number on the back of her bank card — but it wasn’t her bank on the other end of the line. The call had been spoofed.The caller tricked her into handing over one-time passcodes that provided access to Zelle, which was then used to make six transfers from her account, ranging from one penny to $999.98. Wells Fargo refunded Ms. Butler for her loss.Others have fallen victim to similar calls. Cory McWilliams, a Wells Fargo customer in Houston, said that thieves had called him from a spoofed Wells Fargo number, fooled him into giving them authentication codes texted by the bank and then stole $1,000.Jim Seitz, a Wells Fargo spokesman, said the company takes customer security “very seriously” and that it will “continue to evolve our multilayers of controls to further help our customers avoid becoming victims of fraud.”Mr. McWilliams reported the theft to a banker at his local branch, and Wells Fargo refunded his loss.“The banker I spoke with was not surprised at all,” Mr. McWilliams said. “He stated he was aware this sort of scam was going around.”

Supported byBy Andrew E. KramerMOSCOW — Russian authorities have deported to the United States an American cybercrime suspect who is one of the United States’ most wanted men, even as the two countries are at loggerheads over politicized hacking.Joshua Samuel Aaron, whom the authorities accuse of stealing hundreds of millions of dollars from Wall Street banks in what a prosecutor called “security fraud on cybersteroids,” was arrested at John F. Kennedy International Airport on Wednesday after arriving on a flight from Moscow.The timing of the deportation suggested that the Kremlin, which has become the focus of intense scrutiny in the United States over allegations of hacking and meddling in the presidential election, was trying to deflect criticism.“Politics is set aside when talk turns to real cybercriminals,” Sergei Plugotarenko, director of the Russian Association for Electronic Communications, an industry group, said of the deportation.Mr. Aaron, 32, who has been implicated by federal prosecutors in the Southern District of New York in the theft of details of more than 100 million American bank accounts, moved to Russia in early 2015, two months before a warrant was issued for his arrest. Prosecutors say he and two Israelis, Gery Shalon and Ziv Orenstein, used the stolen account details from JPMorgan Chase, Fidelity Investments, E-Trade and others for a wide range of frauds, including manipulating stocks. They then laundered the money abroad, the authorities say. Israel deported Mr. Shalon and Mr. Orenstein to the United States in July. Mr. Aaron pleaded not guilty Wednesday in federal court in Manhattan.Preet Bharara, the United States attorney for the Southern District of New York, called the scheme “securities fraud on cybersteroids,” and said the group had perpetrated “the largest theft of personal information from U.S. financial institutions ever.”Despite the gravity of the charges, Mr. Aaron had lived freely in Moscow for eight months in a downtown apartment. Even after his arrest this year on a visa violation charge, Mr. Aaron was not immediately deported.Russia is now facing an outpouring of criticism in the United States for what the Central Intelligence Agency determined was an intelligence operation to tip the election for Donald J. Trump, by using computer intrusions to steal and selectively release compromising materials about Democratic candidates. Mr. Trump has suggested the evidence is inconclusive, and that other American intelligence agencies disagree with the C.I.A. finding.There is no indication Mr. Aaron had any ties to the political hacking that has roiled Washington since the summer.Russia has no extradition treaty with the United States and a long history of stonewalling on cross-border cybercrime investigations. Most famously, it has refused to extradite Edward J. Snowden, who is wanted in connection with obtaining and releasing a vast trove of surveillance data from the National Security Agency.Follow Andrew E. Kramer on Twitter @AndrewKramerNYT. 

Supported byOp-Ed ContributorsBy Norman L. Eisen and Richard W. PainterThe revelation that Donald Trump Jr. enthusiastically accepted an offer to meet with an individual described as a “Russian government attorney” bringing “official documents and information” to help the Trump campaign and injure the Clinton campaign is a bombshell.It raises a host of potential criminal and other legal violations for Donald Jr. and others involved, including his brother-in-law Jared Kushner; Paul Manafort, the campaign chairman at the time; and perhaps the president himself. These new facts are a critical inflection point in the Trump-Russia matter. But they should not be exaggerated: The investigation has much further to go before Donald Jr.’s liability, or that of others, can be finally assessed.The defense that this was a routine meeting to hear about opposition research is nonsense. As ethics lawyers, we have worked on political campaigns for decades and have never heard of an offer like this one. If we had, we would have insisted upon immediate notification of the F.B.I., and so would any normal campaign lawyer, official or even senior volunteer.That is because of the enormous potential legal liability, both individually and for the campaign. The potential offenses committed by Donald Jr., his colleagues and brother-in-law who attended the meeting, and the campaign itself, include criminal or civil violations of campaign finance laws. These laws prohibit accepting anything of value from a foreign government or a foreign national. The promised Russian “documents and information” would have been an illegal campaign contribution from a foreign government — and a priceless one.Then there is the question of whether the statements of enthusiasm in the emails about the meeting (“I love it,” Donald Jr. wrote) constituted assent on behalf of the Trump campaign to continuing Russian help. Welcoming the information and taking the meeting can reasonably be understood to signal a broader receptivity to Russian aid. This is even more serious than the campaign finance violation because it brings conspiracy law into play. That could make Donald Jr. and others liable for all of the Russian dirty tricks that followed, including any Russian cybercrimes or other crimes targeting the Clinton campaign.Although we do not yet have enough facts to judge, Donald Jr. and others may also be liable for conspiracy with respect to espionage, depending on how any illicit information was obtained and the level of their awareness of any spying. Because the Russian campaign that followed was nothing less than an assault on our democracy, we understand why some are raising issues of treason as well. Prosecution under the federal treason statute is ultimately unlikely because we are not at war with Russia. But during the Cold War, treasonous conduct was often prosecuted under other statutes. (Alger Hiss was sentenced to four years in prison for “forgetting” in sworn testimony that he had met with Whitaker Chambers, an American working for the Russians.)Mr. Manafort and Mr. Kushner, who attended the meeting on notice of what was contained in these documents, are also potentially culpable. Mr. Manafort is already reportedly under investigation in connection with Russian contacts; this will add fuel to that fire. Mr. Kushner is very likely being investigated as well for omitting Russian contacts from his security clearance forms. He could be charged with making false statements if it is determined that he intentionally withheld this or other Russia-related meetings from his government filings.What of Donald Trump himself? Because offers of this kind are the most crimson of red flags in any campaign, they would never normally be undertaken without the agreement of a lawyer, and perhaps the consent of the candidate. That raises the question of whether the president himself knew. There’s a strong possibility he was in Trump Tower when the meeting took place; after all, his office was just one floor away. Would three of his closest confidants really have undertaken this meeting without telling him?Finally, it is important to remember that we are still midstream in the Trump-Russia investigation. Evidence is accumulating, but we do not definitively know yet what crimes, if any, have been committed, or by whom. For that reason, it is now more critical than ever that the investigations by the special prosecutor and Congress be allowed to complete their course without White House or other interference.Norman L. Eisen, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, is the chairman and Richard W. Painter, a professor at the University of Minnesota Law School, is the vice chairman of Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics. They were chief White House ethics lawyers for Presidents Barack Obama and George W. Bush, respectively.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.

Supported byBy Nicole PerlrothIt has been a secret, long known to intelligence agencies but rarely to consumers, that security software can be a powerful spy tool.Security software runs closest to the bare metal of a computer, with privileged access to nearly every program, application, web browser, email and file. There’s good reason for this: Security products are intended to evaluate everything that touches your machine in search of anything malicious, or even vaguely suspicious.By downloading security software, consumers also run the risk that an untrustworthy antivirus maker — or hacker or spy with a foothold in its systems — could abuse that deep access to track customers’ every digital movement.“In the battle against malicious code, antivirus products are a staple,” said Patrick Wardle, chief research officer at Digita Security, a security company. “Ironically, though, these products share many characteristics with the advanced cyberespionage collection implants they seek to detect.”Mr. Wardle would know. A former hacker at the National Security Agency, Mr. Wardle recently succeeded in subverting antivirus software sold by Kaspersky Lab, turning it into a powerful search tool for classified documents.Mr. Wardle’s curiosity was piqued by recent news that Russian spies had used Kaspersky antivirus products to siphon classified documents off the home computer of an N.S.A. developer, and may have played a critical role in broader Russian intelligence gathering.“I wanted to know if this was a feasible attack mechanism,” Mr. Wardle said. “I didn’t want to get into the complex accusations. But from a technical point of view, if an antivirus maker wanted to, was coerced to, or was hacked or somehow subverted, could it create a signature to flag classified documents?”That question has taken on renewed importance over the last three months in the wake of United States officials’ accusations that Kaspersky’s antivirus software was used for Russian intelligence gathering, an accusation that Kaspersky has rigorously denied.Last month, Kaspersky Lab sued the Trump administration after a Department of Homeland Security directive banning its software from federal computer networks. Kaspersky claimed in an open letter that “D.H.S. has harmed Kaspersky Lab’s reputation and its commercial operations without any evidence of wrongdoing by the company.”For years, intelligence agencies suspected that Kaspersky Lab’s security products provided a back door for Russian intelligence. A draft of a top-secret report leaked by Edward J. Snowden, the former National Security Agency contractor, described a top-secret, N.S.A. effort in 2008 that concluded that Kaspersky’s software collected sensitive information off customers’ machines.The documents showed Kaspersky was not the N.S.A.’s only target. Future targets included nearly two dozen other foreign antivirus makers, including Checkpoint in Israel and Avast in the Czech Republic.At the N.S.A., analysts were barred from using Kaspersky antivirus software because of the risk it would give the Kremlin broad access to their machines and data. But excluding N.S.A. headquarters at Fort Meade, Kaspersky still managed to secure contracts with nearly two dozen American government agencies over the last few years.Last September, the Department of Homeland Security ordered all federal agencies to cease using Kaspersky products because of the threat that Kaspersky’s products could “provide access to files.”A month later, The New York Times reported that the Homeland Security directive was based, in large part, on intelligence shared by Israeli intelligence officials who successfully hacked Kaspersky Lab in 2014. They looked on for months as Russian government hackers scanned computers belonging to Kaspersky customers around the world for top secret American government classified programs.In at least one case, United States officials claimed Russian intelligence officials were successful in using Kaspersky’s software to pull classified documents off a home computer belonging to Nghia H. Pho, an N.S.A. developer who had installed Kaspersky’s antivirus software on his home computer. Mr. Pho pleaded guilty last year to bringing home classified documents and writings, and has said he brought the files home only in an attempt to expand his résumé.Kaspersky Lab initially denied any knowledge or involvement with the document theft. But the company has since acknowledged finding N.S.A. hacking software on Mr. Pho’s computer and removing it, though the company said it had immediately destroyed the documents once it realized they were classified.The company also said in November that in the course of investigating a surveillance operation known as TeamSpy in 2015, it had tweaked its antivirus program to scan files containing the word “secret.” The company said it had done this because the TeamSpy attackers were known to automatically scan for files that included the words “secret,” “pass” and “saidumlo,” the Georgian translation for the word secret.Kaspersky continues to deny that it knew about the scanning for classified United States programs or allowed its antivirus products to be used by Russian intelligence. Eugene Kaspersky, the company’s chief executive, has said he would allow the United States government to inspect his company’s source code to allay distrust of its antivirus and cybersecurity products.But Mr. Wardle discovered, in reverse-engineering Kaspersky antivirus software, that a simple review of its source code would do nothing to prove its products had not been used as a Russian intelligence-gathering tool. (Watch how he reverse-engineered the software.)Mr. Wardle found that Kaspersky’s antivirus software is incredibly complex. Unlike traditional antivirus software, which uses digital “signatures” to look for malicious code and patterns of activity, Kaspersky’s signatures are easily updated, can be automatically pushed out to certain clients, and contain code that can be tweaked to do things like automatically scanning for and siphoning off classified documents.In short, Mr. Wardle found, “antivirus could be the ultimate cyberespionage spying tool.”Mr. Wardle said it was relatively easy to use a vulnerability in Microsoft’s Windows software to manipulate the Kaspersky software. Because officials routinely classify top secret documents with the marking “TS/SCI,” which stands for “Top Secret/Sensitive Compartmented Information,” Mr. Wardle added a rule to Kaspersky’s antivirus program to flag any documents that contained the “TS/SCI” marker.He then edited a document on his computer containing text from the Winnie the Pooh children’s book series to include the marking “TS/SCI” and waited to see whether Kaspersky’s tweaked antivirus product would catch it.Sure enough, as soon as the Winnie the Pooh text was saved to his machine, Kaspersky’s antivirus software flagged and quarantined the document. When he added the same TS/SCI marker to another document containing the text “The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog,” it, too, was flagged and quarantined by Kaspersky’s tweaked antivirus program.“Not a whole lot of surprise that this worked,” Mr. Wardle said, “but still neat to confirm that an antivirus product can be trivially, yet surreptitiously, used to detect classified documents.”The next question was: What happens to these files once they are flagged? Mr. Wardle stopped short of hacking into Kaspersky’s cloud servers, where suspicious files are routinely uploaded.However, he noted that antivirus customers, including Kaspersky’s, agreed by default to allow security vendors to send anything from their machine back to vendors’ servers for further investigation.There are legitimate reasons for this: By uploading these items to Kaspersky’s cloud, security analysts can evaluate whether they pose a threat, and update their signatures as a result.Kaspersky Lab said Mr. Wardle’s research did not reflect how the company’s software works.“It is impossible for Kaspersky Lab to deliver a specific signature or update to only one user in a secret, targeted way because all signatures are always openly available to all our users; and updates are digitally signed, further making it impossible to fake an update,” the company said in a statement.The company added that it applied the same security standards and maintained the same levels of access as other security vendors, and reiterated that it was willing to make its source code, threat detection rules and software updates available for audit by independent experts.But, as Mr. Wardle’s research demonstrated, an untrustworthy vendor, or hacker or spy with access to that vendor’s systems, can abuse its deep access to turn antivirus software into a dynamic search tool, not unlike Google, to scan customers’ computers for documents that contain certain keywords.“And no one would ever know,” he added. “It’s the perfect cybercrime.”Follow Nicole Perlroth on Twitter: @nicoleperlroth

Supported byBy Kathryn Shattuck“American Honey,” starring the newcomer Sasha Lane, hits the road on a reckless adventure. “Fire Island” embeds in a house share for the summer. And Dick Wolf embeds with the New York field office of the F.B.I.AMERICAN HONEY (2016) on Amazon. An aimless young woman named Star (Sasha Lane, plucked from obscurity on a beach by the film’s director, Andrea Arnold) runs away from an abusive home and takes up with a band of feral teenagers who sell magazine subscriptions door to door. Traveling the heartland in a van — flirting, arguing, smoking and singing on a trip to nowhere — they con potential customers with stories about scholarship funds and then hand over their earnings to their supervisor, Krystal (Riley Keough). She rides in a convertible driven by her top earner, the dreamy Jake (Shia LaBeouf), who seemingly keeps her satisfied in other ways as well. Then Star catches his eye. “‘American Honey,’ long and messy as it is, is by turns observant and exuberant, and sweet in a way that is both unexpected and organic,” A. O. Scott wrote in The New York Times.THE GAME on Sundance Now. When a defecting K.G.B. agent in 1972 London reveals a plot that could change the course of the Cold War, Daddy (Brian Cox), the head of MI5, assembles a team to investigate — prompting the Soviets to activate sleeper agents across Britain. But then Joe Lambe (Tom Hughes), Daddy’s prized operative, becomes obsessed with the reappearance of his nemesis and risks letting his quest for revenge jeopardize the operation. The show’s creator, Toby Whithouse, examines a possible traitor in each of the six episodes. “Soviet spies in raincoats and trilby hats may seem a little dated, but in the era of Vladimir Putin, they are not entirely far-fetched,” Alessandra Stanley wrote in The Times when the series debuted in 2014.FIRE ISLAND 8 p.m. on Logo. This unscripted series tunes in as six men move into a beachfront summer share and seek thrills in what one calls “the gay Disneyland.” The dining is fine, and so is the night life, but like any reality show set in a house, sparks fly — and sometimes result in explosions.INSIDE THE F.B.I.: NEW YORK 10 p.m. on USA. Dick Wolf and Marc Levin team up on this real-life crime series, which was filmed between September 2015 and September 2016 and embedded with the New York field office of the F.B.I. while attacks were waged in Paris; San Bernardino, Calif.; Brussels; Orlando, Fla.; Nice, France; and the Chelsea neighborhood of Manhattan. “The threat’s always evolving, so we always have to be evolving,” an agent says. Each of the six episodes follows a different division, including counterterrorism, gang units, cybercrimes and human trafficking.BEERLAND 10 p.m. on Vice. Meg Gill, a founder of the Golden Road Brewery in Los Angeles, crosses the country in search of creative home brewers and then invites the best to a taste-off, with the chance to have their recipes brewed, canned and distributed.

Supported byBy Paul MozurTo Apple’s mounting problems in China, add official scrutiny over privacy.The Chinese police said this week that they had arrested 22 people suspected of selling the personal data of an unspecified number of Apple customers. The police, in Cangnan County in the eastern province of Zhejiang, said the thieves had reaped 50 million renminbi, or about $7.3 million, over an unspecified period.Many of the details were unclear, including the identities of those involved and the severity of the breach.In a statement on Wednesday, the Cangnan police said they found that Apple employees had illegally acquired personal data, then later in the same statement said 20 of the 22 people worked for companies that sell Apple products or are Apple contractors. The police did not disclose information about the other two people. In China, Apple’s products are sold broadly, in electronics chain stores and small booths in shopping malls in addition to the company’s official Apple Stores.The Cangnan police also said the data included the names, Apple identification numbers and phone numbers of Apple users. They did not say whether passwords or financial information like credit card numbers were involved, which would suggest the thieves had access to internal Apple data and would make the breach more serious.The arrests are part of a set of broader difficulties in China for Apple, which is based in Cupertino, Calif. Sales of iPhones, still a sign of middle-class aspiration in China, have slowed, according to analysts, as the public waits for new models and as Chinese manufacturers of cheaper phones step up their quality and marketing.Apple has also faced new scrutiny from the government on other fronts. Last year its movie and book services were shut down in China.Still, Apple may simply be caught up in a wider rising of concern over privacy in China.Few people in China expect the country’s authoritarian central government to stay out of their business. But outside of that, a growing number of Chinese people fear cybercrime and identity theft, particularly as millions of them turn to online shopping and using money electronically.Between widespread malware campaigns and a large number of new internet users, China has become a playground for internet fraudsters. Last year, China tried 361 criminal cases involving violation of personal data, up from 176 in 2015, said Xie Yongjiang, associate director for the Institute of Internet Governance and Law at the Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications.“It is very common. Every one of us can feel it,” Mr. Xie said. “For example, after your child is born at a hospital, someone will phone you and ask if you need baby products. When your child turns 3, someone will phone you and ask if your child would go to their nursery school. When your child reaches primary school age, someone will phone you to ask if you need training services.”“You have no idea who exposed your personal data,” he added.The problem is not new. In one incident reported in the Chinese news media just this week, an employee of a Shanghai delivery company was recently arrested on suspicion of selling clients’ personal data.Other examples abound. An apparent trove of login information leaked onto the Chinese internet was used to hack more than 20 million accounts on Alibaba’s e-commerce site Taobao, according to news reports. Alibaba said that its security systems had not been breached and that it had worked with the police to quickly catch the perpetrators.In another example, China News Service, a state-run news agency, reported late last year that login information and other personal data from accounts associated with the Chinese e-commerce site JD.com were exposed in 2013 as part of a security problem. JD.com said it had quickly fixed the issue.The problem is not even new to Apple. Last year, 10 employees of an Apple contractor in China were also found with data from more than 80,000 users.Cao Li contributed research.

Supported byOp-Ed ContributorBy Robby MookImagine the headlines if, in 2015, Russian agents had leapt out of a van at 2 a.m. in Southeast Washington and broken into the Democratic National Committee offices using sophisticated tools and techniques to steal tens of thousands of documents, including the names and Social Security numbers of donors and employees, and confidential memorandums about campaign strategy for the presidential election.The world would have been aghast. It would have been, people would say, worse than Watergate.Something similar did, in fact, happen at the D.N.C. two years ago, and it was worse than Watergate. This wasn’t just one party spying on the other; these were hackers under orders from President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia who were trying to “undermine public faith in the U.S. democratic process,” according to a report released Friday by the office of the director of national intelligence. But the immediate reaction to the break-in was nothing like what followed Watergate.That’s because most of us don’t think of hacking as a crime like breaking and entering. Before the D.N.C. break-in, I thought of hacking as a prank by mischievous tech-savvy people to get revenge. When North Koreans hacked Sony Pictures in 2014 in retaliation for making the satire “The Interview,” I was much more disturbed by the embarrassing things the movie executives said in emails to one another than by how easy it was for a dictator to punish critics in the United States. It wasn’t until I lived through the Russian hackings of Democratic staff members and organizations that I realized how dangerous such an attitude could be.I saw it firsthand in July, when I was asked about the first wave of stolen documents on ABC’s “This Week” and CNN’s “State of the Union.” I thought it was a bombshell — Russians hacked into the Democratic National Committee! — but my alarm was dismissed by the news media and our opponents as merely campaign spin, feigned distress meant to dodge real questions about how the embarrassing messages might hurt Hillary Clinton’s prospects.This perception has to change. I’m not referring to the D.N.C. incident in particular, but about cybercrimes in general. Unless we realize how vulnerable we are, we are playing into the hands of foreign aggressors like Mr. Putin.The chilling effect of these attacks can be very public, and very personal. But they can also be more subtle, impeding dialogue within an organization. For all the fanfare we give the internet for freeing speech, when it is weaponized against you, it can also be used to stifle speech. At the D.N.C., certain conversations could take place only on an encrypted phone app, which made communicating more complicated logistically.Skeptics, including President-elect Donald J. Trump, have compared the hacks to leaks to the news media. They’re not the same. A leak occurs when someone who is authorized to have information gives it to a reporter without authorization. The “Access Hollywood” video of Mr. Trump talking about assaulting women was a leak. When someone on my staff shared a memo about our campaign launch without permission, that was a leak. Leaks are frustrating, and they happen all the time.What Mr. Putin did by dumping Democrats’ emails wasn’t a leak; it was an attack with stolen information.Until we start to see these situations in this light, “Moscow’s longstanding desire to undermine the U.S.-led liberal democratic order,” as the national intelligence office report called it, will remain potent, and the democratic process will remain vulnerable. The news media needs to spend at least as much time reporting on the source of these foreign-led cybercrimes as they do on the contents.This isn’t a partisan issue, as Republican senators like John McCain and Lindsey Graham have already made clear. Mr. Putin and Kim Jong-un of North Korea aren’t registered Democrats or Republicans — they’re anti-American, and they want to hurt democracy itself. To justify what Mr. Putin did, or to blame the victim, as Mr. Trump and his staff have chosen to do, simply leaves them, and all of us, under threat, because the next attack may be aimed not at a political party, but at the White House or the Pentagon.Of course, Americans need to do a better job protecting ourselves. Law enforcement needs to create better bridges between the intelligence services that monitor attacks and the individuals and organizations they affect. There are very few protocols for the F.B.I. and C.I.A. to alert and assist potential victims. Our democratic structures — elections equipment and officials, elected officials and candidates, activists and reporters — must be elevated as a priority.At the time of the D.N.C. attack, water treatment plants, nuclear power plants and even casinos were on the Department of Homeland Security’s “critical infrastructure” list. Voting equipment was added last Friday, but we must do much more to protect the people who animate our democratic process. Imagine how stolen information could be (or already has been) used to influence or corrupt officeholders, or voters themselves.Watergate inspired greater vigilance in the press and prompted major reforms to safeguard our democratic institutions. We need to do that again.Robby Mook managed Hillary Clinton’s 2016 campaign for president.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 

Supported byBy James KanterBRUSSELS — The European Union and Japan announced a broad agreement on Thursday that would lower barriers on virtually all the goods traded between them, a pointed challenge to President Trump on the eve of a summit meeting of world leaders in Germany.Though the deal still needs further negotiation and approval before it can take effect, it represents an act of geopolitical theater, a day before a Group of 20 summit meeting begins in Hamburg. At a meeting of G-20 finance ministers in March, Steven Mnuchin, the United States Treasury secretary, pointedly declined to endorse a statement in favor of free trade.“Although some are saying that the time of isolationism and disintegration is coming again, we are demonstrating that this is not the case,” Donald Tusk, the president of the European Council, said at a news conference in Brussels. “The world really doesn’t need to go a hundred years back in time. Quite the opposite.”Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan said the deal signified the creation of “the world’s largest free, advanced, industrialized economic zone.”Here’s what you need to know about the deal:The core of the agreement aims to increase the flow of Japanese cars to Europe and of European food to Japan.The Europeans are expected to scrap a 10 percent tariff on passenger cars made in Japan, over a period of seven years. Duties would come down more rapidly for some car components.Those are key concessions: The Japanese automotive giants Toyota and Honda have claimed a smaller market share in Europe than in other major markets like the United States.Europe could still reimpose restrictions if there was a “very big increase as compared to normal” of imported Japanese cars, Cecilia Malmstrom, the European trade commissioner, told reporters later Thursday. She did not say, however, what specific level would cause that kind of reaction.The Japanese, in return, are expected to lower duties on European cheeses like Gouda from the Netherlands, while retaining their unusually complex regulations on dairy products.Tokyo is also likely to make it easier for European companies to bid for major government contracts, a move that could benefit train makers like Siemens of Germany and Alstom of France.Accompanying the trade deal is a separate partnership agreement in which both sides pledge greater cooperation on issues like cybercrime and climate protection.The Group of 20 summit meeting took place in the German city of Hamburg. What is the G-20, and what happens when its members meet? See how much you know.Negotiators have refused to include whaling and logging in the talks, which has angered environmental groups — Greenpeace has characterized the deal as “a huge transfer of power from people to big business.”Ms. Malmstrom responded this week by saying organizations like Greenpeace would be opposed to “any trade agreement,” ostensibly a criticism of the group’s stance against trade liberalization.On Wednesday, Ms. Malmstrom posed with the Japanese foreign minister, Fumio Kishida, holding daruma dolls, a symbol of perseverance.Even without rules on whales and wood, the deal is the biggest bilateral trade agreement ever struck by the European Union, covering about a quarter of the global economy.Together, the European Union and Japan would constitute a trading bloc of a size to rival that created by the North American Free Trade Agreement, presently the world’s biggest free trade zone (and one that Mr. Trump wants to renegotiate).Not quite. The biggest issue that has not yet been agreed on is how to ensure that investors have a way to resolve disputes arising as a result of the deal.The Europeans want to employ a court system rather than ad hoc arbitration, which has been used for decades but has been heavily criticized by European lawmakers and environmental groups as being too soft on industry interests.The Japanese, however, argue that existing institutions are enough.European negotiators have also failed to persuade the Japanese to accept guarantees on freer flows of data. Both sides say they want to make progress on the issue by early next year.Negotiations have been proceeding for years, but were accelerated after Mr. Trump abandoned the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a wide-ranging trade agreement with Pacific Rim countries that had Japan at its core.The new deal was a clear sign that other parts of the world will continue to pursue a liberalizing trade agenda, even without the United States.European and Japanese officials now expect the talks to be completed within months.In June, the Japanese Parliament passed a law that aims to address some of its dairy industry protections, which may make it easier to wrap up negotiations.The main concern, however, is the ratification process in Europe.A landmark trade deal with Canada nearly came unstuck last year when Wallonia, a region of Belgium, withheld its approval until its concerns were dealt with by the country’s political leaders.What would happen if the Walloons — or another region or country — were to balk this time? European officials did not have an answer to that this week.Follow James Kanter on Twitter @jameskanter.Jonathan Soble contributed reporting from Tokyo.


 .postHeader .kicker-label {display: none !important; } 
Get recommendations from New York Times reporters and editors, highlighting great stories from around the web. What Weâre Reading emails are sent twice a week. 
In this first-person account, Patti Smith explains that she didn’t forget the words to “A Hard Rain’s A-Gonna Fall” during her tribute to Bob Dylan at the Nobel Prize ceremony. Instead, she was overcome with emotion.   â Jon ParelesThink your iPhone is secure, huh? You won’t after reading this riveting investigation into the chilling vanguard of cybercrime, where for-profit hackers are trying to build some of the world’s most advanced and dangerous spyware to break Apple’s iPhone operating system. The biggest shocker comes from an American grad student: It’s already been done, allowing authoritarian regimes and other nefarious organizations to remotely spy on anyone’s phone anywhere in the world. Including yours. â Dan LevinThe Russian-American journalist Masha Gessen is emerging as one of the most urgent writers on Donald J. Trump and Trumpism. Here, she dissects his use of language as power, drawing parallels to Vladimir V. Putin’s.  â Michael PowellThis is an important review of President Obama’s bank-friendly response to the foreclosure crisis and how it harmed many of our nation’s most vulnerable borrowers.  â Gretchen MorgensonEverything I know about flying squirrels I learned from airings of Rocky and Bullwinkle, until this fabulously illustrated article came along. It’s an engrossing tutorial on critters so well-engineered that supersonic jet designers stole their aerodynamics and so cute that you’ll want to adopt one.   â Michael Wines

Supported byBy Ron NixonBALTIMORE — The tip came on the last day of January 2014 to special agents from Immigration and Customs Enforcement: A drug courier was about to land at the Baltimore airport with a large shipment.Hours later, the agents asked the man, Edgar Franco Lopez, a Guatemalan, to search the three large duffel bags he was loading in a car outside the airport. But agents found only food. So they bluffed, saying they had found evidence of drugs in the bags.The driver, Edwin Quintana Carranza, a Mexican in the United States illegally who had claimed the bags were his and consented to the search, confessed. The drugs were hidden in the sugar wafers, he said.Mr. Lopez and Mr. Carranza were key links in a drug smuggling network that stretched thousands of miles from Guatemala to Baltimore, according to court records and interviews with agents involved in the case. Law enforcement officials said members of Guatemala’s Ipala Cartel, a drug trafficking organization named for the city where it is based, shipped large amounts of heroin into the United States, hiding drugs in food, primarily sugar wafers, brownies, soups, lollipops and other candy.Instead of smuggling heroin through ports of entry or across the border, the cartel’s traffickers exploited weaknesses in border security: parcels shipped through the mail, UPS and FedEx; air cargo; and travel on transit systems with relatively little security, like Amtrak. Their packages were factory-sealed and showed no signs of tampering, suggesting that they might have had access to a food-processing factory, agents involved in the case said.The case highlights the increasingly sophisticated tactics drug trafficking organizations use to largely bypass traditional border security screening systems and walls. Even as the United States spends billions of dollars along the Mexican border — the main route for drug trafficking — as part of President Trump’s crackdown on border security, the traffickers have already found ways to avoid the cameras, drones, drug dogs and agents along the border, officials said.Agents say the group may have also used the mail and parcels to avoid paying Mexican drug cartels for crossing their territory.“A lot of people think of these drug trafficking organizations as gangs, and they are not. These organizations are a very adaptive adversary,” said Jayson P. Ahern, the former acting commissioner of Customs and Border Protection under President George W. Bush. “If we cut off one of their transportation networks like at the border, they are still going to try to move their goods to market by other means.”The nearly three-year investigation into the transnational drug smuggling organization concluded this year when 23 people pleaded guilty to intent to distribute heroin. The sentences ranged from one year of home detention to more than five years in prison. Agents also seized $5.2 million worth of heroin and identified over $2 million in drug profits from the organization laundered to Guatemala in the span of a year.The city of Baltimore has long suffered from the scourge of heroin. Over 21,000 people in the city of 614,000 are addicts, said Dr. Leana S. Wen, the commissioner of health.Nearly 700 people died of drug overdoses in Baltimore last year, more than twice the 318 homicides recorded by local authorities. The largest number of deaths was attributed to heroin mixed with fentanyl, according to the city’s Health Department, a signature of the drug crisis gripping the United States.“We’ve had an opioid crisis long before the country was aware that there was an opioid crisis,” Dr. Wen said.Six days a week, Health Department crews hand out clean needles to addicts, in hopes of stemming the spread of diseases. On a recent day in West Baltimore, a stream of people, many of them heroin users, lined up outside a mobile health unit to get clean needles.Derrick Hunt, who heads one of the mobile units, said those who showed up to exchange needles represented people of all income levels and races. And he said the users were getting younger. “I’ve been doing this a long time, and this is the worst I’ve seen it in a long time,” he said.Just down the street from the mobile health unit, several young men who appeared to be teenage boys stood in front of rowhouses as a steady stream of people who appeared to be customers approached them. Several cars also stopped in the middle of the street or pulled to the side of the road as some of the teenagers approached the drivers and appeared to hand them a small bag.A woman in one of the rowhouses yelled out her window at the apparent drug transactions.“Y’all need to move from around here with that stuff,” she said.Despite the mature drug market here, the Guatemala drug trafficking organization found plenty of customers. Homeland Security officials say the group may have been operating for years and might have remained undetected if not for the 2014 tip to special agents with Homeland Security Investigations.Homeland Security Investigations is a little-known part of Immigrations and Customs Enforcement, the agency best known for rounding up and deporting immigrants in the country illegally. The division, which investigates smuggling, money laundering and cybercrimes, has roughly 6,000 special agents forming the second-largest investigative law enforcement agency in the country, after the F.B.I.Agents said they initially bypassed the drugs concealed in the packaged food, even after searching for hours, because they saw no tampering. Concealing the drugs in food also helped to mask the smell of drugs from drug-sniffing dogs at the airport.The Baltimore airport stop provided federal authorities with key information that they used to obtain 19 wiretaps and listen in on the co-conspirators as they discussed drugs deals, often in code. The agents recorded video of meetings and intercepted packages shipped to various airports through the Postal Service, UPS and FedEx, air cargo and small parcel companies, where other members of the trafficking organization picked them up. The group also used Guatemalan shipping companies with even fewer controls in place.“Because they were using packages, they didn’t worry about anyone getting caught,” said Adam Parks, assistant special agent in charge of Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s Homeland Security Investigations in Baltimore. ”Even if we intercepted the packages, we couldn’t connect them to anyone because the names and addresses were fake.”At the center of the drug smuggling operation, interviews and court records showed, were Eddy German Bello, a citizen of the Dominican Republic who came to the United States and overstayed his visa, and Edin Gamez Barrios, a Guatemalan who entered the country illegally. It was unclear when the men first came to the United States.Mr. Bello and Mr. Barrios oversaw heroin shipments as they arrived at airports in New York, Atlanta, Boston, Miami and Baltimore and were picked up by operators working for both men.One of them, Raul Villatoro, the owner of a Miami import company who was trying to gain American citizenship, was sent heroin-filled packages from Guatemala and passed them on to a courier who would drive them to Baltimore for Mr. Bello. Another courier working for Mr. Barrios carried drugs from New Jersey into Baltimore on Amtrak. The courier was caught by the local police carrying a bag filled with drugs at Pennsylvania Station in Baltimore after agents were tipped off by a wiretap. Agents suspected that he had made the trips dozens of times.A later search of Mr. Lopez’s travel records by Homeland Security Investigations showed that he had made 25 similar trips that agents suspect were to deliver drugs. This helped agents identify and detain dozens of other couriers with similar travel patterns, which in turn forced the drug trafficking group to switch to sending their drugs by mail and parcels.Mr. Bello also received several shipments through the Postal Service directly from Guatemala, with the drugs mixed in with flour, chocolate and hard candy. In one instance, agents watched as a UPS package filled with heroin was delivered to a Silver Spring, Md., address where Mr. Barrios lived.Money from the drug transactions was sent back to Guatemala via money transfer services or flown back by couriers. Officials said the $2 million they seized was from just one year of drug profits in the Baltimore area.Federal investigators say Mr. Bello and Mr. Barrios reported to Salvador Ramos Miguel in Guatemala, who allegedly worked for Mayor Esduin Javier of Ipala, also known as Tres Kiebres, which roughly translates to “three times broken.” A barrel-chested, charismatic figure who once worked construction in the United States, Mr. Javier, according to federal investigators, has numerous ties to drug traffickers, particularly Colombians. Mr. Javier has denied the accusations, calling them false and offensive.Mr. Carranza, the Mexican citizen, was detained and later deported. Mr. Lopez claimed he knew nothing of about the contents of the bags; he was just delivering them. He was freed from custody, but his visa was canceled.Federal authorities and homeland security experts said the Guatemalan drug smuggling group’s exploitation of the mail and parcel systems showed a sophisticated understanding of the holes in post-Sept. 11 border security. The sheer volume of mail and packages — the Postal Service alone processes billions of packages a year — makes it next to impossible for every item or cargo to be searched for drugs, experts say.Customs and Border Protection, the parent agency of the Border Patrol, also inspects international mail and packages, but it also only randomly checks packages when it is alerted to problems.“These organizations are always adapting to whatever we do in terms of border security,” said Juliette Kayyem, a former assistant secretary at the Department of Homeland Security in the Obama administration. “You can’t just say you’re going to build a wall to stop the drugs. These groups have identified our mail and parcel systems and other modes of transportation such as trains as a weakness and exploited them.”Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.

Supported byBy Nathaniel PopperSAN FRANCISCO — The largest online black market for drugs, AlphaBay, has been down for nearly two days, raising questions about whether it was seized by law enforcement authorities or taken down in a swindle.The administrators of AlphaBay have posted on the social network Reddit that they are doing maintenance and that the site should be up again soon. But those messages were posted long after AlphaBay went down on Tuesday, leading to rampant speculation among its users.The site is one of many so-called dark net markets that came into existence after American authorities took down the first and most famous such market, the Silk Road, in 2013.AlphaBay has come under scrutiny most recently because of the many vendors who use it to sell the deadly synthetic opioids at the center of the nation’s overdose crisis. The site is also used as a marketplace for stolen credit cards and other financial data.Researchers say that AlphaBay has grown into the largest black market site by far.The site was hosting $600,000 to $800,000 in transactions daily earlier this year, according to unpublished statistics from Nicolas Christin, an associate research professor at Carnegie Mellon University who has written many papers about the scale of such sites. Those figures would make AlphaBay about twice as large as the Silk Road when it was shut down in October 2013.Operators of other large black market sites have absconded with user deposits and shut the sites, in what are known as exit scams.In some cases, the authorities, in so-called honeypot operations, have taken down black market sites, then reopened them to get more information about users.Federal authorities have not commented on, or taken responsibility for, AlphaBay’s being down. When the authorities took down the Silk Road they quickly put up a banner on the site alerting users to the operation.AlphaBay users have flocked to Reddit to speculate about what happened and express concern about their drug supplies and deposits on the site.“At least if it was a verified exit scam people could write off their btc as gone and plan accordingly,” one user wrote, using an abbreviation for Bitcoin. “I think it’s not not knowing that drives so many people crazy.”The speculation escalated after Canadian news media reported on a raid and arrests in Quebec that were said to target people involved in online black markets.The Royal Canadian Mounted Police did not immediately respond to a request for comment.AlphaBay and other sites have gone offline before because of maintenance problems and attacks by hackers, and have then come back online. One of AlphaBay’s longtime administrators, who uses the screen name trappy_AB, wrote on Reddit that that was the case this week.“I have been in touch with our devs and admins and they are working to restore AlphaBay as soon as possible,” he wrote, using shorthand terms for developers and administrators.Users were skeptical about why the site’s administrators had been so late in posting information.“Telling us 1 minute after it goes down would be fine. It literally took him like 28hrs,” a user named yellow_viper wrote on Reddit.AlphaBay is only accessible through dark web browsers, which scramble the location of users and site operators, making it all but impossible for the authorities to identify the whereabouts of the servers hosting a specific site.Users pay for goods with virtual currencies like Bitcoin, which cannot be easily tracked by financial institutions or law enforcement.The authorities took down the Silk Road because its creator, Ross Ulbricht, accidentally revealed his real email address in an early online post about the site. Mr. Ulbricht is now serving a life sentence in prison for his role as the kingpin of the worldwide digital drug-trafficking enterprise.AlphaBay operates much like eBay, hosting vendors who offer their wares and pay a commission to the site on each purchase. Customers deposit money with the site before making purchases. This is the money the operators could have stolen.In 2015, the operators of the marketplace known as Evolution closed the site and took millions of dollars of users’ money.Other sites have been taken down by law enforcement agencies in various countries using sophisticated techniques to unmask the operators’ anonymity.In recent months, authorities in the United States have arrested several large vendors on AlphaBay who had sold synthetic opioids like fentanyl and U-47700.In April, police arrested a couple in Greenville, S.C., who were allegedly connected to a popular vendor on AlphaBay known as PeterTheGreat. An 18-year-old in Portland, Ore., died after taking U-47700 that she bought from PeterTheGreat on AlphaBay, the authorities said.When large dark net markets have gone down in the past, the transactions have quickly moved to other sites. AlphaBay currently has many large competitors, including sites like Valhalla and Dream Market.Luke Rodeheffer, a cybercrime analyst with Flashpoint, said that criminals around the web were buzzing about the problems at AlphaBay.“Given that a number of Eastern European cybercriminals use AlphaBay as a marketplace, the down status is already being discussed on top-tier Russian forums,” he said.“No one has any particular insights into the cause,” he added.

Supported byBy Jonathan MartinWASHINGTON — Nancy Pelosi, the House minority leader, sent a letter on Tuesday to Speaker Paul D. Ryan urging him to bar Republicans from using hacked documents in the campaign, arguing that “defending our democracy is more important than any advantage or disadvantage in this election.”Ms. Pelosi, calling the hack into Democratic servers, apparently by Russians, “an unprecedented assault on the sanctity of our democratic process,” said Mr. Ryan should not condone either party using materials originating from the cybercrime.“Democrats and Republicans must present a united front in the face of Russia’s attempts to tamper with the will of the American people,” Ms. Pelosi wrote.Government officials have concluded that two Russian intelligence agencies, the F.S.B. and the G.R.U., are responsible for the hacking into the Democratic National Committee and the House Democratic campaign arm. Emails and other internal documents have been published by a hacker calling himself Guccifer 2.0, who is believed to be tied to the Russian intelligence agencies.Mr. Ryan’s aides referred questions about Ms. Pelosi’s request to the House Republican campaign arm, the National Republican Congressional Committee. A spokeswoman for the committee did not rule out using hacked content, but disclaimed responsibility for the one instance it had happened thus far.“Neither the N.R.C.C.’s chairman, Greg Walden, nor the speaker have control over what our independent expenditure unit does, which the D.C.C.C. chairman, Ben Ray Lujan, as well as Leader Pelosi are well aware of,” said the spokeswoman, Katie Martin, referring to the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee.Have you registered your disapproval or approval for Donald J. Trump’s candidacy by, say, discarding or returning Trump-brand clothes — or by booking a night at a Trump hotel? We want to hear your stories.To date, the only hacked documents to surface have come from the internal servers of Democratic committees, an indication that only one of America’s two major political parties is being targeted. Already, the hacks revealed that the Democratic National Committee favored Hillary Clinton and discussed ways to undermine Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont in its presidential primary, disclosures that led to the resignation of the party chairwoman, Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz.While alarmed at what is being exposed, Democrats also sense an opportunity to use the cybercrime to link Republicans to President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia. It is a task that has been made easier by the Republican presidential nominee, Donald J. Trump, who has frequently praised Mr. Putin, called to improve relations with Moscow and urged Mr. Putin’s government to hack into Mrs. Clinton’s emails.On Monday night, Mrs. Clinton told reporters that Russia’s intrusion represented “a threat from an adversarial foreign power,” and cited “credible reports about Russian interference in our elections.”And last week, Harry Reid of Nevada, the Senate Democratic leader, went even further, sending a letter to the F.B.I. director, James B. Comey, urging him to investigate Russian interference that “may include the intent to falsify official election results.”By asking Mr. Ryan to effectively declare hacked documents politically off limits, Ms. Pelosi is attempting to force him to choose between being seen as abetting the cybercrime of a hostile power and leaving potentially fruitful material unused. House Republicans have already seized on one of the hacked documents, releasing a digital ad last month that cited a House Democratic memo posted by Guccifer 2.0 that outlined the potential vulnerabilities of a Democratic candidate in Florida.The posting of House Democratic documents relating to the Florida races was apparently meant to correspond to the state’s primaries last week. While no Republican leaders have pledged not to use hacked materials, Reince Priebus, the chairman of the Republican National Committee, recently said that the hack was “not right” and that he was “not on board with whatever they did to steal this information.”For his part, Mr. Putin has denied that his government was responsible for the hacking but has made no effort to conceal his pleasure about the disclosures.“Listen, does it even matter who hacked this data?” Mr. Putin said in a Bloomberg News interview last week. “The important thing is the content that was given to the public.”

Supported byBy Andrew E. KramerMOSCOW — The blacklist includes two people suspected of cybercrimes, and four others who are military intelligence officers. All are the kinds of figures one might expect to be on a list of people targeted by the Obama administration in retaliation for Russia’s malfeasance, including efforts to influence the 2016 election.Then there is the one who calls herself “mishacker,” a globe-trotter with a rebellious online persona who is perhaps the most intriguing of the newly revealed Russian spies.On what appears to be her personal website, called “Hello, stranger,” that person, Alisa Shevchenko, introduces herself and expounds on some of her digital accomplishments, including setting up a work space for hackers in Moscow.“My name is Alisa,” the site reads. “I am a human being. Part misfit, part mishacker. A businesswoman in the past as well as in a possible future. Currently I am mostly working on vulnerabilities and exploits, while striving to minimize entropy in the process.”The White House identified the company Ms. Shevchenko founded, Zor Security, as a supplier to the Russian military’s Main Intelligence Directorate, or G.R.U., the group said to be behind the hacking attacks on the Democratic National Committee and other political organizations. The United States government said the company provided technical support to the G.R.U. for the attacks.Ms. Shevchenko had been a minor celebrity in Moscow computer industry circles as a “legal” hacker. An article in the Russian edition of Forbes magazine in 2014 described the work of her business as discovering security flaws in the software of banks and other institutions.And a year before the United States government applied sanctions against her company, the Department of Homeland Security said she had helped prevent cybercrime under a program of information sharing between the public and private sector. Ms. Shevchenko was said to have assisted a French company, Schneider Electric, in identifying vulnerabilities in its software.Ms. Shevchenko was recognized in a notice from the department’s Industrial Control Systems Cyber Emergency Response Team, set up to coordinate between the government and industry to protect “the nation’s critical infrastructure.”This nod from the American government illustrates Ms. Shevchenko’s ambiguous role and, more broadly, the diversity of people believed to be working inside Russia’s government hacking program. The inclusion of Ms. Shevchenko’s company on the American sanctions list sheds light on the sprawling scope of the effort, which drew in students, civilians and possibly criminal hackers to bolster the military and intelligence agencies’ cyberwar abilities.Praised in the Russian news media as a young talent in 2005, when she was just 21, Ms. Shevchenko worked on cyberdefense projects but embraced the symbols and parlance of criminal hackers.She has tattoos and often posts messages on Twitter under the handle “badd1e.”In a flurry of Twitter posts on Friday, Ms. Shevchenko mocked an American sanctioning agency, the Office of Foreign Assets Control, with a vulgarism, and said that she had already closed Zor Security.A message sent to Ms. Shevchenko’s Twitter account was not answered Friday.“How my little simple company (closed long ago at that) could possibly appear in the same list with the FSB and international terrorists,” she wrote, using the initials of the Russian name of the Federal Security Service, the successor to the K.G.B.The Forbes article identified Ms. Shevchenko as the winner of a hacking contest in 2014, in which she had found her way into industrial control software used for such things as running electrical power plants and grids.“I didn’t expect such triviality,” she was quoted as saying after winning the contest. She said she found “around 10 vulnerabilities in just a few hours.”On her website, Ms. Shevchenko posted a link to a blog entry on the award she won.“If exploited in real life, discovered vulnerabilities could cause harmful consequences, such as denial of service, functional failure of critical infrastructure management systems, which in its turn may disrupt normal life of an entire city,” the blog post said of her hack.Her Twitter feed cultivates the persona of a digital rebel.In Moscow, her website said, Ms. Shevchenko founded a working space for hackers in the Chistye Prudy neighborhood of the capital, called Neuron Hackspace, also ostensibly for legitimate security purposes.The more prominent of the two cybercriminal suspects designated in the sanctions announced by the Obama administration was Yevgeny M. Bogachev, who the Treasury Department said was a developer of malicious software. One product, called Zeus, was used to steal bank account information, while another, Cryptolocker, scrambled the system of victims until they paid a ransom, according to the Treasury Department. The sanction notice said Mr. Bogachev had stolen about $100 million from American companies and government agencies.While the Treasury Department imposed sanctions on Mr. Bogachev for criminal activities rather than political ones, at times in Russia’s digital underworld, the distinction is one without a difference.In the current wave of Russian politicized hacking, code from the Zeus malware showed up in phishing attacks, according to Dmitri Alperovitch, a co-founder and the chief technology officer of the American cybersecurity company CrowdStrike.The Treasury Department also imposed sanctions on Aleksei A. Belan, who is accused in the theft of email addresses and passwords from customers of three e-commerce companies.“The fact is, the Russian system of mathematical education is quite good,” Anton M. Shingarev, a vice president at Kaspersky, a Russian antivirus company, said in an interview. “And it produces a lot of computer programmers. And this is the reason why there are a lot of Russian hackers.”

Supported byBy Andrew E. KramerMOSCOW — Russia was again at the center of a global hacking scandal when computer systems the world over were frozen this weekend by a variant of malicious software known as WannaCry. But this time, Russians were among the victims of the attack, not suspected of being the perpetrators.In fact, of all the countries afflicted in the first wave of the spread of the malicious software, Russia was hit the hardest: The virus tried to infect more computers in Russia than anywhere else, according to an analysis by Kaspersky Lab, a Russian antivirus company.While government computers were crashing, banks, cellphone operators and railroads in Russia were fending off attacks designed to freeze their systems in demand for ransoms to unlock the data.Now on the business end of a cyberattack, Russian officials were quick to voice outrage.“Humanity is dealing here with cyberterrorism,” said Frants Klintsevich, the deputy chairman of the Russian Senate’s defense committee, according to the state-run Tass news agency. “It’s an alarming signal, and not just a signal but a direct threat to the normal functioning of society, and important life-support systems.”Computer researchers have yet to determine the origin of the “ransomware” attack, but Mr. Klintsevich said the hackers’ intended targets were global.“I cannot exclude that the main task consists now of frightening the whole world,” he said. “The attacks hit hospitals, railroad transport and police. Over these days, the world got a serious warning.”The malicious software, or malware, was apparently stolen from the National Security Agency’s arsenal of cyberweapons and put to use by unknown hackers. It began proliferating quickly on Friday, and by Sunday, the attack had afflicted 200,000 computers in more than 150 countries, according to Europol, the European Union’s police agency.The attack was among the highest-profile computer intrusions since security experts and American intelligence agencies accused hackers acting on behalf of the Russian government of trying to influence the outcome of the 2016 American presidential election and the recent presidential election in France.Russian officials deny that they were involved in breaching servers of the Democratic National Committee or of other political operatives in an effort to help elect Donald J. Trump last year. And they have denied culpability for efforts this month to expose private data stolen from the campaign of Emmanuel Macron in France.Hacking — far from an exclusive trick of the Russians — is a global scourge, Russian officials have said, and the ransomware attack became a painful illustration of their point.The malware was based on a program developed by the N.S.A. and stolen in a breach of the United States government’s servers. The version of the program used to demand ransoms from the operators of frozen computer systems exploits vulnerabilities in older and unlicensed versions of Microsoft Windows, used widely in Russia, that did not have security patches.On Friday, Russia’s Interior Ministry reported attacks on about 1,000 computers using the Windows operating system, but said the computers had been isolated from ministry networks.A spokeswoman for the ministry, Irina Volk, told Russian news agencies that key servers had been unaffected because they were running domestic software, including a little-known operating system called Elbrus, first developed in the late Soviet period.A new strain of ransomware spread rapidly around the world on Friday.Russian cybercriminals were among the pioneers of ransomware, although there is no evidence linking them to the latest WannaCry attack.In recent years, a prominent Russian malware system called Gameover Zeus, which had been used for bank thefts and government espionage, also distributed a particularly ruthless ransomware program called Cryptolocker.In December, the Obama administration imposed sanctions on the Russian hacker associated with Gameover Zeus, Evgeniy M. Bogachev, who is also wanted by the F.B.I. in connection with cybercrimes including bank fraud, money laundering and identity theft.Mikhail Delyagin, the director of the Institute of Problems of Globalization in Russia, said he suspected the United States government was behind the WannaCry attack, saying it could be the retaliation the Americans threatened against Russia for its hacking efforts last year.“I respect the honesty of the United States,” he said. “They threaten us with a cyberattack, and a cyberattack follows. It’s logical.”Still, prominent Russian computer researchers have refrained from blaming the United States, although the malicious software originated with the N.S.A.“Special state cyberforces evidently would not exercise such a stupid attack,” Igor Ashmanov, a member of the Council for Digital Economy, a government advisory body, said in an interview. Any government-backed attack on Russian institutions would be considered an act of war, he said.And this time, he said, “of course it wasn’t Russian hackers,” given that Russia appeared to be a main target.An earlier version of this article misstated part of the name of the agency that the malware used in a global cyberattack was stolen from. It is the National Security Agency, not the National Security Administration.

Supported byBy Alexandria Symonds and Raillan BrooksOf all the surprises Michael Schwirtz and Joseph Goldstein encountered while reporting today’s front-page story on America’s most wanted hacker, perhaps none was bigger than this: For once, the F.B.I. was excited to talk to them.“There was a willingness to speak with us about this case,” Mr. Goldstein said. “I was somewhat pleasantly surprised, and I rarely have that feeling when trying the F.B.I. for help on stories.”The bureau was so obliging, Mr. Goldstein said, in part because Evgeniy M. Bogachev is a fugitive. The attention generated by a widely read newspaper report can spur those who might have knowledge of his activities to come forward in hopes of reward money. (In this instance, the amount — $3 million — is the most ever offered in a computer-crimes case.)After the Obama administration placed sanctions on Russia following election-related hacking, Mr. Goldstein and Mr. Schwirtz set out to fill in what they saw as a hole in news media coverage of the issue: No one had attempted to profile Mr. Bogachev, one of two private Russian citizens named in the sanctions.In fact, throughout their reporting, Mr. Schwirtz and Mr. Goldstein were struck by the information hiding in plain sight and by the detail it contained — unusual for cybercrime and espionage cases.Even Mr. Bogachev’s Most Wanted poster was surprisingly rich.Mr. Goldstein compared the poster with one released by the State Department promising a $10 million reward for information leading to the capture of the Taliban leader Mullah Omar. Officials offered “virtually nothing beyond that he was the spiritual leader of the Taliban,” he said.Not so with Mr. Bogachev: “The wanted poster here described where he has real estate, his birthday, where he likes to sail his boat,” Mr. Goldstein said.They obtained the remarkable lead photo for the story — of Mr. Bogachev posing, in leopard-print pajamas, with a Bengal cat — from a Powerpoint presentation put on, at a conference, by an F.B.I. agent and cybersecurity researchers.(“Mike pinned down the breed of cat,” Mr. Goldstein said, in a testament to the power of reporting in tandem. “I would have just written ‘cat.’”)Though Mr. Schwirtz traveled to Ukraine to conduct some interviews, the two tracked down a number of sources online. They spoke to several hackers linked to Mr. Bogachev, one of whom is in prison in Kentucky and was reachable by email.And as today’s story explains, under the Russian government’s patronage, Mr. Bogachev has spurned the anonymity of a dark web hacker in favor of a flamboyant lifestyle in a beachside resort town — a lifestyle that leaves behind a digital trail.After a source tipped them off to Mr. Bogachev’s involvement in a lawsuit with a real estate company, Mr. Schwirtz took an unconventional shot: He contacted the man listed in court documents as Mr. Bogachev’s lawyer, via Facebook.Still, it was intelligence operatives — current and former, in both the United States and Ukraine — who proved the most indispensable sources.They shared, for instance, screen names Mr. Bogachev has used as a hacker — and the method they had used to isolate them. The trick, they explained, “is to go back in time as far as possible, to a point where an individual was not as security-conscious as he or she would come to be later in their career,” Mr. Schwirtz said.(Mr. Bogachev was initially identified thanks to an email “that was not nearly as secure as he eventually made all of his communications,” he elaborated.)In the end, agents were forthcoming with leads on nearly every aspect of the Bogachev case — with a single exception. “The one area that became quite fraught was the discussion of the espionage, at which point most of the agents started breathing heavily and changed the subject,” Mr. Schwirtz said. “I guess that’s understandable.”

Supported byBy Karen Zraick and Sandra Stevenson(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. President Trump gave highly classified information on ISIS to Russia in an Oval Office meeting last week, breaking a deal with an ally, officials said.He leaves Friday on his first overseas trip as president. The first stop is Saudi Arabia.Syria is likely to be at the top of the agenda in his discussions. Also Monday, the State Department released new satellite images from Syria that officials said show a crematory used to hide mass executions at a government prison._____2. The Supreme Court will stay out of a fight over a restrictive North Carolina voter ID law.That leaves in place a federal appeals court ruling that struck down parts of the law, enacted in 2013.The lower court called the measure an unconstitutional effort to “target African-Americans with almost surgical precision.”Above, an N.A.A.C.P. meeting in Raleigh erupted in cheers when members learned of the news._____3. New digital clues point to North Korean-linked hackers as likely suspects in the sweeping ransomware attacks that have crippled computer systems around the world, experts said.The cyberattacks continued to ripple through politics and markets, especially in Asia.China, which reported disruptions at nearly 40,000 organizations, was especially susceptible because of the prevalence of pirated software there.Solving cybercrimes like the ransomware attacks involves old-school sleuthing. Our animated map shows how the attack spread. Here’s how to protect yourself.Above, the headquarters of Hitachi in Japan, just one of the major companies affected._____4. Can you identify North Korea on a map?A survey of 1,700 Americans found only 36 percent could do so. Those who could were more likely to favor diplomacy over military action.Meanwhile, North Korea said that the ballistic missile it tested over the weekend could carry a nuclear warhead — and warned that American military bases were within its range.Above, a Japanese newscast about the crisis._____5. Young black leaders in the Democratic Party are pushing for a more aggressive stance toward President Trump as they eye the 2018 elections.Many of the potential candidates are looking to shore up their support among minority communities and young voters.That’s a break from the conventional Democratic strategy of trying to appeal to older white moderates in tough races.“A Democrat wins an election in Georgia by speaking truth to power,” said Representative Stacey Abrams, who is considering a run for governor._____6. The 2011 tsunami and nuclear disaster in Japan has endangered children in Cambodia.The disaster set off an unexpected shortage of iodine, an element crucial to early brain growth.Cambodia began iodizing table salt in 1999, with good results. But in 2011, the price of iodine skyrocketed.Since then, iodine concentrations in Cambodian children have dropped by 30 percent, and doctors and aid agencies are rushing to prevent permanent damage._____7. The New York Times documented every homicide last year in a patch of New York City where poverty and crime persist: the 40th Precinct in the South Bronx.Today we published the final article in the series, about a gang-related shooting that detectives said stemmed from fighting among members of the Bloods.It remains unsolved. Above, friends and relatives of the victim, Jequan Lawrence._____8. We traveled to a mountaintop village in the Philippines to meet a tattoo artist with practically mythical status.Maria Fang-od Oggay, above, thought to be 100 years old, uses the traditional tattooing methods of her ethnic group, the Kalinga.An appearance in a 2009 documentary shot her to fame, and now she attracts clients from all over the world._____ 9. U2 is touring to celebrate the 30th anniversary of its hit album “The Joshua Tree.”Our critic was at the first U.S. show, in Seattle, above, and he says the pivotal album is worth revisiting. The songs “pondered 1980s America as both myth and presence,” but “hold eerie resonances” with the present, he writes.The band also played one new song, “The Little Things That Give You Away.” They had been working on another album, but the presidential election sent them back to the studio for rewrites._____10. Finally, President Trump kissed his chief spokesman, Sean Spicer.Just kidding, that was “Saturday Night Live.” Melissa McCarthy got rave reviews for her return as an angry, angst-ridden Mr. Spicer, riding a motorized podium all the way to Trump Tower.Have a great night._____Photographs may appear out of order for some readers. Viewing this version of the briefing should help.Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing, posted weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern, and Your Weekend Briefing, posted at 6 a.m. Sundays.Want to look back? Here’s Friday night’s briefing.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.

Supported byOp-Ed ContributorBy Rebecca WexlerThe criminal justice system is becoming automated. At every stage — from policing and investigations to bail, evidence, sentencing and parole — computer systems play a role. Artificial intelligence deploys cops on the beat. Audio sensors generate gunshot alerts. Forensic analysts use probabilistic software programs to evaluate fingerprints, faces and DNA. Risk-assessment instruments help to determine who is incarcerated and for how long.Technological advancement is, in theory, a welcome development. But in practice, aspects of automation are making the justice system less fair for criminal defendants.The root of the problem is that automated criminal justice technologies are largely privately owned and sold for profit. The developers tend to view their technologies as trade secrets. As a result, they often refuse to disclose details about how their tools work, even to criminal defendants and their attorneys, even under a protective order, even in the controlled context of a criminal proceeding or parole hearing.Take the case of Glenn Rodríguez. An inmate at the Eastern Correctional Facility in upstate New York, Mr. Rodríguez was denied parole last year despite having a nearly perfect record of rehabilitation. The reason? A high score from a computer system called Compas. The company that makes Compas considers the weighting of inputs to be proprietary information. That forced Mr. Rodríguez to rely on his own ingenuity to figure out what had gone wrong.This year, Mr. Rodríguez returned to the parole board with the same faulty Compas score. He had identified an error in one of the inputs for his Compas assessment. But without knowing the input weights, he was unable to explain the effect of this error, or persuade anyone to correct it. Instead of challenging the result, he was left to try to argue for parole despite the result.Mr. Rodríguez was lucky. In the end, he made parole and left Eastern Correctional in mid-May. But had he been able to examine and contest the logic of the Compas system to prove that its score gave a distorted picture of his life, he might have gone home much earlier.Or consider the case of Billy Ray Johnson, a defendant in California who was sentenced to life without parole for a series of burglaries and sexual assaults that he says he did not commit. The prosecution relied on the results of a software program called TrueAllele that was used to analyze traces of DNA from the crime scenes.When an expert witness for Mr. Johnson sought to review the TrueAllele source code in order to confront and cross-examine its programmer about how the software works, the developer claimed it was a trade secret, and the court refused to order the code disclosed — even though Mr. Johnson’s attorney offered to sign a protective order that would safeguard the code. Mr. Johnson was thus unable to fully challenge the evidence used to find him guilty.TrueAllele’s developer maintains this decision was right. It has submitted affidavits to courts across the country alleging that disclosing the program’s source code to defense attorneys would cause “irreperable harm” to the company because it would allow competitors to steal the code. Most judges have credited this claim, quashing defense subpoenas for the source code and citing the company’s intellectual property interests as a rationale.In 2015, a California Appeals Court upheld a trade secret evidentiary privilege in a criminal proceeding — for what is likely the first time in the nation’s history — to shield TrueAllele source code from disclosure to the defense. That decision, People v. Chubbs, is now being cited across the country to deny defendants access to trade secret evidence.TrueAllele is not alone. In another case, an organization that produces cybercrime investigative software tried to invoke a trade secret evidentiary privilege to withhold its source code, despite concerns that the program violated the Fourth Amendment by surreptitiously scanning computer hard drives. In still other instances, developers of face recognition technology have refused to disclose the user manuals for their software programs, potentially obstructing defense experts’ ability to evaluate whether a program has been calibrated for certain racial groups and not for others.Likewise, the algorithms used to generate probabilistic matches for latent fingerprint analysis, and to search ballistic information databases for firearm and cartridge matches, are treated as trade secrets and remain inaccessible to independent auditors.This is a new and troubling feature of the criminal justice system. Property interests do not usually shield relevant evidence from the accused. And it’s not how trade secrets law is supposed to work, either. The most common explanation for why this form of intellectual property should exist is that people will be more likely to invest in new ideas if they can stop their business competitors from free riding on the results. The law is designed to stop business competitors from stealing confidential commercial information, not to justify withholding information from the defense in criminal proceedings.Defense advocacy is a keystone of due process, not a business competition. And defense attorneys are officers of the court, not would-be thieves. In civil cases, trade secrets are often disclosed to opposing parties subject to a protective order. The same solution should work for those defending life or liberty.The Supreme Court is currently considering hearing a case, Wisconsin v. Loomis, that raises similar issues. If it hears the case, the court will have the opportunity to rule on whether it violates due process to sentence someone based on a risk-assessment instrument whose workings are protected as a trade secret. If the court declines the case or rules that this is constitutional, legislatures should step in and pass laws limiting trade-secret safeguards in criminal proceedings to a protective order and nothing more.The future of the criminal justice system may depend on it.Rebecca Wexler is a fellow at the Legal Aid Society and a resident at the Data and Society Research Institute.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 

Supported byBy Michael Tackett, Trip Gabriel and John EligonIf the 2016 presidential election reflected a primal roar from disaffected white working class voters that delivered for President Trump and Republicans, Tuesday’s results showed the potential of a rising coalition of women, minorities, and gay and transgender people who are solidly aligning with Democrats.A black transgender activist, Andrea Jenkins, was elected to the Minneapolis City Council. A Hispanic woman won the mayor’s race in Topeka, Kan. A Sikh man was elected mayor in Hoboken, N.J. Latina, Vietnamese and transgender female candidates won state legislative races. Black candidates were elected lieutenant governor in New Jersey and Virginia. A Liberian refugee in Helena, Mont., was elected mayor.Mark Keam, a Korean-American Democrat who was re-elected on Tuesday to his seat in Virginia’s House of Delegates, said the wave of first-time minority candidates was a direct response to feeling snipped out of the American picture by Mr. Trump’s policies and divisive language.“In Trump’s America, people are getting screwed and those getting screwed more than others are people who’ve never had a voice in the government,” Mr. Keam said. “Those are motivations a white guy wouldn’t have.”Some are skeptical of reading too much into one off-year election. And even Democrats have had heated disagreements over whether identity politics help the party or drive people away. But David Ramadan, a Republican who served in the Virginia General Assembly from 2012 to 2016 said the warning for his party was clear.“Tuesday’s results show that unless the Republicans go back to being mainstream conservatives and run on issues like education, jobs and transportations instead of sanctuary cities and Confederate statues, they will hand not only Virginia to liberals, but they will hand the country to liberals and Congress to liberals next year,’’ Mr. Ramadan said.Even before her election, Danica Roem drew national attention as a transgender woman running against a Republican who had introduced a “bathroom bill” in the Virginia Legislature to bar transgender people from restrooms.Ms. Roem, 33, a former reporter for a newspaper in the Washington suburbs, tried to focus on issues like traffic, while fending off attacks from Republicans, including the state party, that she was morally degenerate and not really a woman.“Help me protect conservative values in Virginia!” her opponent, Bob Marshall, a 26-year incumbent known for his social conservatism, wrote in a campaign flier.Ms. Roem, who came out in 2013, a year after beginning her transition to a woman, campaigned in a rainbow head scarf and will be the first openly transgender person in the country seated in a state legislature.She was born and still lives in Manassas, and is something of a policy nerd. She also sings in a heavy metal band, Cab Ride Home, which she said would be taking a hiatus while she focuses as a lawmaker on raising teacher pay, Medicaid expansion — and, a top issue in her suburban district, traffic congestion.While Ralph S. Northam earned the top headlines for his surprisingly strong win over the Republican, Ed Gillespie, the victory by Justin Fairfax in the lieutenant governor’s race, also has long-term implications.Mr. Fairfax became the second African-American to be elected to that position, which has often been a stepping stone to the governor’s office, as it was for Douglas Wilder, the nation’s first elected black governor, Senator Tim Kaine and Mr. Northam himself.A former federal prosecutor and graduate of Duke University and Columbia Law School, Mr. Fairfax had never held elective office. His campaign had an upbeat feel, marked by television ads that showed him preparing peanut butter sandwiches for his young children before he drove them to school.Mr. Fairfax will instantly be seen as a top contender for governor in Virginia in 2021. Mr. Northam is limited to one, four-year term. (Virginia governors can serve multiple terms, but not two consecutively.)Jenny Durkan, who will be Seattle’s first openly lesbian mayor and its first female mayor since the 1920s is a former United States attorney and a former member of the Teamsters union.In Seattle, where socially liberal values and a labor union history are ingrained in the political culture, Ms. Durkan bragged to voters about working as baggage handler after college for a tiny airline in Alaska, where she was the only woman and learned how to fix a forklift. “That union job helped me pay for law school,” she told voters.Ms. Durkan, 59, calls herself a progressive Democrat who is also tough on crime. She touted her experience as the United States attorney, appointed by former President Barack Obama in 2009 — where she became a specialist in cybercrime. But taking a page from Senator Bernie Sanders, she also promised two years of free community or technical tuition to all Seattle high school graduates.She is a daughter of political royalty in Washington, and grew up one of eight children — a big, noisy Irish Catholic family, as she has called it — led by Martin J. Durkan Sr., who served for decades in the state Legislature, and was twice a candidate for governor of Washington.When he started reading the nasty Facebook posts and hearing the hostile comments from politicians a few years back, Wilmot Collins decided he had to do something. They were accusing refugees, like him, of being terrorists, milking the welfare system and committing crimes.“When I started listening to the rhetoric, I said, ‘This is crazy,’ ” said Mr. Collins, who settled in Helena, Mont., as a refugee from Liberia in 1994. “Here in Montana, we’re fighting the notion that refugees are terrorists. Part of me wants to show them that, ‘No, here’s the face of a refugee. These are who refugees are. Here is my family. This is what refugees look like. We are not terrorists.’ ”On Tuesday night, Mr. Collins’s efforts came full circle when he was elected mayor of Helena, unseating the 16-year incumbent, James E. Smith. Mr. Collins is believed to be the second black person elected to serve as a mayor in Montana. Edward T. Johnson won the Helena mayoral election in 1873, according to Kate Hampton of the Montana Historical Society.Mr. Collins, 54, said he saw his election as a repudiation of some of the restrictive immigration rhetoric of President Trump.“It’s telling the bigger America that this is not about race, this is not about national origin,” Mr. Collins said. He added: “What Helena said yesterday was, ‘We’re looking for a good candidate and we believe in this person.’ ”Mr. Collins (whose cousin, Helene Cooper, is a reporter for The New York Times) said that some of his major platform planks included providing funding for essential services like the fire and police departments, and creating more affordable housing in part because of the large populations of homeless veterans and teenagers in Helena.Mr. Collins, who is married with two adult children, came to the United States after fleeing the civil war in Liberia. He works for the state as a child protection investigator and has been a member of the Navy Reserve for two decades.The new mayor of Topeka, Kan., Michelle De La Isla, took a difficult and winding journey to the Midwest and politics.Born in New York and raised in Puerto Rico, she became homeless at 17 and pregnant at 19. A pastor at the church where she sang in the choir told her she was smart and should go to college on the mainland. That led Ms. De La Isla, now 41, to Wichita State University.Today she is a single mother of three, a son and two daughters, after escaping an abusive marriage with the help of a program at the Y.W.C.A. in Topeka, she said on Tuesday after narrowly winning the mayor’s race.“All these experiences I’ve turned into blessings,” Ms. De La Isla said. “It’s easier to serve people when you’re not judging them from the get-go.”Ms. De La Isla first became involved in Topeka, a city of about 122,000 with small pockets of Hispanics and African-Americans, by counseling people about their financial credit.That led to running Topeka Habitat for Humanity, which led to her attending City Council meetings on revitalizing the downtown. A councilman who was elected mayor suggested that she seek his seat, which she won four years ago.“I’ll never forget having a conversation with my girls: My youngest said if you get elected you’re showing me I can do anything,” Ms. De La Isla said. “The pressure was on. It’s been a journey.”Hala Ayala, one of two women who will be the first Latinas in the Virginia General Assembly, plunged into politics after helping to organize a contingent from Prince William County to attend the Washington Women’s March in January.“After the Women’s March it was like, no more,” she said. “Run for office. Make change.”Ms. Ayala, 44, quit a job in cybersecurity for the Coast Guard to run for office. The state party emphasized that she had a security clearance to rebuff Republican TV ads and mailers raising fears of illegal immigrants and crime.In fact, she said the attacks produced a backlash in her Northern Virginia district, which has a large military and immigrant population. Lines at polls on Tuesday were the most racially and ethnically diverse she said she had seen in a decade of volunteering.A single mother of two adult children, aged 20 and 22, Ms. Ayala has lived in the county over 35 years. She said one voter, a father with a preschool daughter, told her he hoped she would inspire his daughter. “Maybe one day she’ll run for office,” he said.Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article misstated the gender of the new lieutenant governor of New Jersey. The lieutenant governor is a woman, not a man.Michael Tackett reported from Washington, Trip Gabriel from New York and John Eligon from Vallejo, Calif. Kirk Johnson contributed reporting from Seattle.

Supported byBy Nicole PerlrothSAN FRANCISCO — Security researchers have uncovered what they believe is a significant cybercrime operation in Brazil that took aim at $3.75 billion in transactions by Brazilians.It is unclear what percentage of the $3.75 billion worth of compromised transactions was actually stolen. But if even half of that value was redirected to criminals, the scope of the swindle would eclipse any other previous electronic theft.The thieves preyed on Boleto Bancário, or Boletos, a popular Brazilian payment method that can be issued online and paid through various channels like banks and supermarkets, said researchers at the RSA Security division of the EMC Corporation.Researchers said the ring had been using what they called bolware — a play on Boletos and malware, a term for software intended for illegitimate purposes — to intercept legitimate Boletos payments and redirect them to the accounts of criminals or mules, who are people paid to stand in for the criminals.Boletos can be used for every kind of transaction, from telephone bills and health insurance premiums to mortgages and school tuition. Over six billion were issued last year, according to Brazil’s central bank. In a country where many lack bank accounts and do not trust the postal service enough to send checks by mail, it is common to see long lines at banks as Brazilians carry their Boletos to pay their bills.Bolware was first detected in 2012, but this is the first time that security researchers have been able to trace bolware to a single criminal ring and determine the scope of compromised transactions.RSA researchers in Brazil, Israel and the United States studied 19 variants of bolware for three months. Using digital logs, they were able to trace the bolware to what they believe is one group in Brazil. Based on the logs, researchers determined that 192,227 victims had been affected and 495,793 Boletos transactions worth $3.75 billion were hit.“Cybercrime is a lot more rampant in Brazil than it is in the United States, and in many ways Brazil has been the trendsetter in cybercrime,” said Avivah Litan, a cybersecurity analyst at Gartner.Cybercrime accounts for 95 percent of losses incurred by Brazilian banks, according to the Brazilian Federation of Banks, or Febraban. Brazil also has a large online population — about 107 million people, or more than 50 percent of the country’s population — and in 2012 an estimated $1.4 billion was lost to electronic fraud, according to Febraban.Now, researchers say Boletos fraud has become a serious threat to banks in Brazil. After briefing Febraban on RSA’s findings, Uri Fleyder, a researcher for RSA based in Israel, said in an interview Monday that while Boletos fraud was a known issue, “No one realized it was on this scope.”Febraban officials said they could not comment on a continuing police investigation but noted that Brazilian banks last year spent $910 million on digital security and that they were encouraging consumers to migrate from Boletos to a more secure, fully electronic payment system called Direct Debit Authorization, or D.D.A.Boletos are an enticing target because they are so common.The criminals infected PCs by sending emails with malicious links and attachments that, once clicked, downloaded the bolware onto a computer. The bolware burrowed into the Windows operating system of a computer and worked through Internet browsers — including Google’s Chrome, Mozilla’s Firefox and Microsoft’s Internet Explorer — where it modified Boletos transactions and redirected payments directly to the accounts of criminals. The bolware also collected users’ email credentials, most likely so more malicious emails could be sent to infect more computers.RSA researchers said they had also briefed the Federal Bureau of Investigation and United States Secret Service and were working with local and international law enforcement officials to help prosecute the individuals behind the ring. The current assumption is that the group has ties to organized crime in Brazil, but Mr. Fleyder cautioned that for now, that was just an assumption.Because the bolware affects only Windows PC users, researchers are advising PC users to take extra precautions before clicking on suspicious links or email attachments and to make Boletos payments using only the digital wallets on their mobile devices.But the best advice, Mr. Fleyder offered, was simply to “be vigilant.”Dan Horch contributed reporting from São Paulo, Brazil.

Supported byOp-Ed ContributorBy Nabeel RajabRIFFA, Bahrain — I write this from a Bahraini jail cell where I have been detained, largely in isolation, since the beginning of summer. This is not new to me: I have been here before, from 2012 to 2014, in 2015, and now again, all because of my work as a human rights defender.Nor am I alone: There are some 4,000 political prisoners in Bahrain, which has the highest prison population per capita in the Middle East. This is a country that has subjected its people to imprisonment, torture and even death for daring to desire democracy. My close colleague Abdulhadi al-Khawaja was tortured and sentenced to life in prison in 2011 for his human rights work.No one has been properly held to account for systematic abuses that have affected thousands. In 2015, I was arrested on new charges of “insulting a statutory body” and “spreading rumors during a time of war” for posts on Twitter. The police held me from April to July last year. I was released only after the king of Bahrain issued a pardon in an earlier case, also related to views I had expressed.Despite the pardon, the 2015 charges and a travel ban remained in place, and I was threatened with further action. The head of the cybercrimes unit at the Criminal Investigation Directorate in Bahrain summoned me and my family to a meeting, where — in front of my children — he warned me that if I didn’t stop my advocacy work, I would face up to 15 years in prison.That threat became reality when I was arrested in June. The warrant came from the same cybercrimes unit chief who threatened me last year, and I now face prosecution for my work exposing human rights abuses. The authorities even added a third charge of “insulting a neighboring country,” meaning Saudi Arabia. They have also laid a new charge against me of spreading “false news,” in relation to interviews I’ve given to the news media. It’s quite the rap sheet.My supposed “insult” to Saudi Arabia relates to tweets I posted calling for an end to the war in Yemen, a war escalated by the Saudi-led coalition to which Bahrain belongs and for which the United States provides support. The United States has authorized multibillion-dollar arms sales to the Saudis since the war began last year.From the beginning, I was against the war. The civilian death toll was immediate and catastrophic, and I spoke out against the unfolding humanitarian crisis, calling for peace. Now, I am paying the price.I met Secretary of State John Kerry on his visit to Bahrain earlier this year and was glad to talk with him about our difficult situation. Mr. Kerry criticized the boycott of the 2014 election by opposition parties, although the opposition’s demand was simply for a constitutional monarchy in place of Bahrain’s autocratic system. Since that election, the leader of the largest opposition group, the Wefaq National Islamic Society, was  sentenced to nine years for “promoting violence,” and the society was suspended and its assets frozen.I would like to ask Mr. Kerry now: Is this the kind of ally America wants? The kind that punishes its people for thinking, that prevents its citizens from exercising their basic rights?The government has gone after me not only for my comments on Yemen, but also for my domestic activism. One of my charges, “insulting a statutory body,” concerns my work shedding light on the torture of hundreds of prisoners in Jaw Prison in March 2015. The State Department has highlighted the same problem, but last year lifted the arms embargo it had placed on Bahrain since the repressions that followed the 2011 Arab Spring protests, citing “meaningful progress on human rights reforms.” Really?After I met Mr. Kerry, I was interrogated at the Interior Ministry by the chief of the cybercrimes unit, the one who later ordered my arrest. He wanted to know everything about my conversation with the secretary of state. That official interrogated me again in April after I signed an open letter, with 25 other activists, calling on President Obama to discuss human rights and the plight of activists in the Middle East when he visited Saudi Arabia earlier this year.The Bahraini government tried to pressure me into publicly disavowing the letter. I refused.Recent American statements on Bahrain’s human rights problems have been strong, and that is good. But unless the United States is willing to use its leverage, fine words have little effect. America’s actions, on the other hand, have emboldened the government to detain me and other rights advocates: Its unconditional support for Saudi Arabia and its lifting of the arms ban on Bahrain have direct consequences for the activists struggling for dignity in these countries.Instead of fanning the flames in Yemen by supplying arms to the Saudi coalition, Mr. Obama’s administration should use its leverage to resolve the conflict. Working to secure the release of people who call for peace, and are trying to build democracy in the region, would serve that aim.Update: After this Op-Ed essay was published, Nabeel Rajab was charged with publishing “false news and statements and malicious rumors that undermine the prestige of the kingdom.”Nabeel Rajab is the president of the Bahrain Center for Human Rights and an advisory committee member for Human Rights Watch’s Middle East and North Africa Division.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 

Supported byBy Adam Goldman and Michael SchwirtzWASHINGTON — Michael T. Flynn, President Trump’s former national security adviser, was paid over $65,000 by companies linked to Russia in 2015, according to a letter released on Thursday by congressional investigators.Among the companies was a cargo airline implicated in a bribery scheme involving Russian officials at the United Nations, an American branch of a cybersecurity firm believed to have ties to Russia’s intelligence services, and RT, the Russian government’s English language TV channel, according to the letter, which was sent to Mr. Trump on Thursday by Representative Elijah E. Cummings, a Maryland Democrat. Mr. Cummings is the ranking member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee.The document provides new details about Mr. Flynn’s ties to Russian entities just over a month after being forced to resign following revelations that he had misled Vice President Mike Pence and other top White House officials about his conversations last year with the Russian ambassador to the United States.The letter, addressed to Mr. Trump; James B. Comey, the director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; and Defense Secretary Jim Mattis, requested additional documents related to Mr. Flynn’s security clearances.The fees were apparently for speaking engagements by Mr. Flynn, a retired Army lieutenant general and former head of the Defense Intelligence Agency. The engagements occurred before he became an official adviser to Mr. Trump’s presidential campaign.The House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform released a set of documents on Thursday that revealed new details about a trip Michael Flynn took in December 2015 on behalf of RT, a Russian television network with close ties to the Kremlin.The letter and supporting documents provide new details about a trip Mr. Flynn took to Moscow in December 2015 on behalf of RT. As part of that trip, RT paid him more than $45,000 to deliver a speech at an opulent gala hosted by the network, where he sat next to the Russian president, Vladimir V. Putin.That summer, according to an invoice included with the letters, Mr. Flynn also received $11,250 from a Russian cargo airline named Volga-Dnepr Airlines.According to Mr. Cummings’s letter, the company came under United Nations scrutiny after allegations of bribery surfaced involving two Russian officials serving at the United Nations. As part of that investigation, the United Nations removed the company in 2007 from its approved list of vendors, the letter said.In October 2015, Mr. Flynn was paid another $11,250 by the firm, Kaspersky Government Security Solutions, which was founded by Eugene Kaspersky. Mr. Kaspersky’s Moscow-based Kaspersky Lab has long been suspected of having ties to Russian intelligence services. He studied cryptography at a high school run by the K.G.B. and Soviet Defense Ministry, and later worked for the Russian military.Mr. Kaspersky founded the lab with his wife in their Moscow apartment in 1997, and since then, it has grown into one of the most well-known and respected cybersecurity firms in the world. That prominence would make interactions with Russian intelligence unavoidable, although no concrete evidence has yet to surface showing any formal cooperation, experts and current and former American officials said.Kaspersky Lab said in a statement that Mr. Flynn was paid a fee for remarks he delivered at a 2015 cybersecurity forum in Washington.“As a private company, Kaspersky Lab has no ties to any government, but the company is proud to collaborate with the authorities of many countries, as well as international law enforcement agencies in the fight against cybercrime,” the statement said.Phone messages and emails to Mr. Flynn and his lawyer were not returned on Thursday.The information about the money Mr. Flynn received for his 2015 trip is just the latest controversy for the retired general, who was one of the president’s earliest supporters. Last week, Mr. Flynn filed papers acknowledging that he worked as a foreign agent last year representing the Turkish government.Mr. Flynn had registered as a lobbyist last year but did not file papers with the Justice Department registering as a foreign agent.Follow Adam Goldman @adamgoldmanNYT 

Supported byNew York TodayBy Jonathan WolfeGood morning on this muggy Monday.We asked New York Today readers to tell us what’s on their bucket list this summer. Maybe these plans will inspire your list:“Beach, beach, beach! I plan on renewing my summer daily residence at Jones Beach. I hope to wear shoes and sneakers as little as possible, in favor of flip-flops and sandals. I’ll exchange heavy, cooked dinners for lighter fare with fruit and veggies and anything that can be assembled without turning on the oven.”— Victor T. DePalo Jr., 70, Bayside, Queens“My husband and I work in entertainment, so with only one full day off a week, we have to plan our summer outings if we want them to happen. We’re going to get a group of other show folk together to go out to a ballgame on Coney Island. I’ve never been, but I hear it’s a scream.”— Beth DuBon, 28, Washington Heights“SummerStage’s siren song is calling. A chance to spend warm evenings with live music and to see some of the wonderful parks is too tempting to pass up. Plus, my bookshelf has been backing up something fierce, and getting lost in a novel under a shady tree is one of summer’s simplest, and best, pleasures.”— Sam States, 27, Sunnyside, Queens“Governors Island hosts a Pinknic every year, a picnic where people dress in pink. This year, I plan to have my own version of a Pinknic in Central Park with all my friends.”— Shruti Malik, 33, Midtown East“This year I will be participating in a cybercrime investigator internship at the John Jay College of Criminal Justice. I am at a loss for words because of how excited I am to attend this program. Aside from that, I will also be participating in YVote, where I will be engaging in discussions with other students across New York who are in my age group.”— Saskia Van Horn, 16, Jackson Heights, QueensWe’ll be checking back in with our respondents to see if they’ve followed through on their summer goals. Tell us about your plans in the comments.Here’s what else is happening:It should be clear and sunny for the morning commute, but watch out for showers around lunchtime.The afternoon will be warm with a high of 88, as well as windy and wet, so bring an umbrella.This afternoon’s 20 percent chance of rain may continue into the evening, but the wind should die down.• New York police officers are using surveillance video and eyewitness accounts to put together a timeline for the rampage at a Bronx hospital that left a doctor dead and six people wounded. [New York Times]•  Dr. Tracy Sin-Yee Tam, who was killed at the hospital, was only a year out of residency. Over the weekend, friends and colleagues remembered her “beautiful life.” [New York Times]• Gov. Chris Christie relaxed on a closed state beach during a government shutdown in New Jersey. [New York Times]• Two veterans who each lost an arm while serving received robotic arms that use computers, sensors and motors to allow for smooth movement. [New York Times]• “The hat is empowering,” says a Harlem woman who invested $100,000 and took a chance on a Philadelphia hat factory. [New York Times]• More terminally ill New Yorkers are choosing to die in their own beds instead of the hospital, according to city data. [New York Post]• Airport drivers now have access to outdoor bathrooms, thanks to the Port Authority. [Gothamist]• Today’s Metropolitan Diary: “A Busy Ride Uptown”• Scoreboard: Phillies push away Mets, 7-1. Astros circle around Yankees, 8-1. Dream ends Liberty, 81-72.• For a global look at what’s happening, see Your Monday Briefing.• Learn how to meditate at Kingsbridge Library in the Bronx. 10:30 a.m. [Free]• Take a tour of the heart of Central Park, led by a guide from the Central Park Conservancy, beginning at East 72nd Street and Fifth Avenue. 11 a.m. [Free]• Decompress with a riverside ballet barre class at Pier 2 in Brooklyn Bridge Park. 7 p.m. [Free]• An outdoor screening of “The Lego Batman Movie” at Paul Raimonda Playground in Astoria, Queens. 8:30 p.m. [Free]• Tomorrow: Improv teams from across the city perform at the daylong IndieFest, at the Peoples Improv Theater in Midtown. Tuesday, beginning at noon. [Prices vary]• Yankees host Blue Jays, 7:05 p.m. (YES). Mets at Nationals, 6:05 p.m. (SNY).• Alternate-side parking remains in effect until July 4.• For more events, see The New York Times’s Arts &amp; Entertainment guide.The Macy’s Fourth of July fireworks show is back on the East River this year, but it’s a bit farther north.The five barges that will hold the 60,000 or so explosives will be positioned between 24th and 41st Streets.So be warned: Lower Manhattan and Brooklyn Heights will not be the prime viewing spots this year.Instead, try Franklin D. Roosevelt Drive, said Susan Tercero, vice president for Macy’s branded entertainment. F.D.R. Drive will be closed to cars at 7 p.m. Access points are at Houston Street and 23rd, 34th and 42nd Streets.In Brooklyn, head to WNYC Transmitter Park in Greenpoint and Grand Ferry Park and East River State Park in Williamsburg. In Queens, try Hunters Point South Park and Gantry Plaza State Park in Long Island City.Or, as a ferry captain recently suggested to us, you can hop on an NYC Ferry and try to catch the show from the water.And tune in to 1010 Wins for a musical score timed to the show.New York Today is taking the day off on Tuesday, in observance of the Fourth of July. We’ll be back on Wednesday.New York Today is a weekday roundup that stays live from 6 a.m. till late morning. If you don’t get it in your inbox already, you can sign up to receive it by email here.For updates throughout the day, like us on Facebook.What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday. Follow the New York Today columnists, Alexandra Levine and Jonathan Wolfe, on Twitter.You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.

Supported byBy Vindu GoelSAN FRANCISCO — For sale: one billion Yahoo accounts, $200,000 or best offer. The passwords don’t work, but the dates of birth, telephone numbers and security questions could still be useful to an adept cyberthief.After federal prosecutors unsealed indictments this week against four men they say were responsible for a 2014 intrusion into Yahoo’s systems that affected 500 million user accounts, data on one billion accounts — stolen in another attack on the company a year earlier — appeared to remain available on underground hacker forums on Friday.The authorities were tight-lipped about their investigation of the 2013 attack, which is the largest known breach of a private company’s computer systems. The 2014 hacking of Yahoo’s servers is the second largest.“We’re not willing to comment right now if there is a connection between the two investigations,” Malcolm Palmore, who oversees the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s cybersecurity division in San Francisco, said on Wednesday in a brief interview after the government unveiled the indictments.But the two attacks share some common characteristics and may be linked in some fashion.Both of them involved highly skilled Russian hackers, according to cybersecurity experts who have studied the attacks. In both cases, the hackers had links to the Russian government. And in both cases, at least some of the data was used to send spam to Yahoo users.Alexsey Belan, the technical expert who was charged with breaking into Yahoo’s systems in 2014 at the behest of two Russian intelligence officers, has a long record of cybercrime.In 2012, he was indicted on three felony charges for hacking the computer systems of Zappos, the online shoe retailer owned by Amazon, and stealing information on as many as 24 million customers.In 2013, Mr. Belan struck again, hacking into Evernote and Scribd, two digital document storage services, according to a federal indictment filed against him that June. Law enforcement authorities arrested him in Greece later that year, but he posted bail and fled to Russia.Cybersecurity experts who have studied the incidents say the 2013 attack on Yahoo was most likely carried out by a different person. InfoArmor, an Arizona cybersecurity firm, has attributed it to a group of cyberthieves it calls Group E. That group sold the entire database at least three times, including once to an entity that InfoArmor believes was connected to the Russian government.The indictment against Mr. Belan filed this week is vague about how he and his three co-conspirators gained access to Yahoo’s systems.Alex Holden, founder of Hold Security, a cybersecurity firm, said one prevailing theory in the industry was that Mr. Belan capitalized on the earlier breach. He said the person or people behind the 2013 intrusion probably sold, traded or were forced to share their access to Yahoo’s systems with Russian intelligence services. The two Russian intelligence agents indicted in the 2014 breach are accused of using that access to conduct their own spying operation with the assistance of Mr. Belan and another conspirator in Canada.The Russian government has strenuously denied any involvement in any hacking of Yahoo’s systems.Yahoo declined to comment on Friday, but pointed a reporter to a December statement about the 2013 attack. In that statement, the company said it had not been able to find the intrusion but that it was “likely distinct” from the 2014 one.A spokeswoman for the F.B.I. declined to comment on Friday.But during a briefing with reporters in San Francisco on Wednesday, F.B.I. officials said the intrusion into Yahoo’s systems appeared to have begun with a spear-phishing attack, in which a Yahoo employee was tricked into disclosing information that allowed the attackers in.Although Yahoo security officials noticed a breach in 2014, they initially believed it was limited in scope, according to securities filings made by the company. Senior executives were aware of the attack in 2014 but failed to recognize its significance, the company said.Yahoo publicly disclosed the 2014 breach in September. It disclosed the larger, 2013 attack in December and forced all affected users who had not already done so to change their passwords.The database of one billion accounts was on offer for $200,000, which Mr. Holden, the Hold Security founder, called “an exorbitant amount of money.” The asking price for a single address is $10,000.The sellers claimed to have continued access to Yahoo’s systems. But when Mr. Holden, posing as a buyer’s representative, asked them to prove their access by giving him data about two new accounts, they could not do so.Yahoo, for its part, has said that the security holes exploited by the hackers have been patched up.The two attacks had threatened a $4.8 billion deal that Yahoo struck last summer to sell its internet businesses to Verizon Communications. Verizon sought to cut $925 million from the original selling price, but the two companies agreed last month to a $350 million reduction.Matthew Rosenberg contributed reporting from Washington.Follow Vindu Goel on Twitter @vindugoel.

Supported byVocationsInterview by Patricia R. OlsenQ. What types of clients do you work for, and what is your role?A. We’re a threat intelligence firm that works for government agencies and corporations concerned with terrorism and cybercrime. I spend my day on the deep and dark web, hidden areas that users can’t find on a regular web search, and where visitors tend to obscure their identities.What are you looking for? Can you be more specific?I mostly monitor jihadists, who are increasingly engaging in hacking and cybercrime. In addition, a client may ask us to follow a certain person in the terrorist community. I also monitor propaganda released by terrorist groups.What is your background?I have a bachelor’s from the Elliott School of International Affairs at George Washington University, with a concentration in conflict and security. I minored in religion, focused mostly on Islam and studied Arabic. Then I received a master’s in global affairs, with a concentration in transnational security from New York University. I interned at Interpol and the Afghan Embassy in Washington, and at Flashpoint.How did you get interested in this field?I grew up in the tristate area and was about 11 when the 9/11 attacks occurred. They really affected me.What kind of information do you provide?I supply information about threats as they develop, new tactics terrorists are planning and targets they’re discussing. We’ve also uncovered people’s personal information that terrorists may have stolen. If I believe that the information might mean that someone is in physical danger, we notify the client. If the information points to financial fraud, I work with the cybercrime unit here.Does what you learn about make you anxious?I’m human, so of course it makes me a little anxious. But there are tools available to monitor terrorists, which makes me feel safer. There’s a lot going on behind the scenes in the intelligence community that people don’t know about. It’s a collective effort. Knowing that we’re able to disrupt terrorist plans almost balances out any anxiety I might feel.Vocations asks people about their jobs. Interview conducted and condensed by Patricia R. Olsen.

Supported byBy Joseph Goldstein and Michael SchwirtzAlexsey Belan’s career as a successful cyberthief was nearly derailed in 2013 when he was arrested in Greece at the request of American authorities. But he evaded extradition and slipped back into Russia.Back at home, Mr. Belan stayed busy stealing credit cards and populating the internet with ads for erectile dysfunction treatments, but he was no longer working only for himself. He was put to work by Russia’s main intelligence directorate, the Federal Security Service, or F.S.B., on a very ambitious project: to breach Yahoo and steal account information from hundreds of millions of users.The relationship between Mr. Belan and two Russian agents — Dmitry Aleksandrovich Dokuchaev and Igor Anatolyevich Sushchin — was described in an indictment unsealed on Wednesday in federal court in San Francisco. If true, the allegations offer an extraordinary case study of Russian cyberespionage, and particularly the symbiotic relationship between identity thieves and spammers and Russia’s elite intelligence services.Cybersecurity experts and the F.B.I. have long suspected that Russian spies employed and protected criminal hackers to a striking degree, but evidence has been scarce. The indictment made public on Wednesday describes this collusion in detail for the first time.The Justice Department alleges that the F.S.B. agents provided Mr. Belan with the tools of Russian spycraft to minimize detection by American law enforcement. At their direction, he helped surveil foreign officials and even Russian citizens, including a newspaper reporter and an officer with the Internal Affairs Ministry.Ultimately, the team stole the subscriber information of more than 500 million accounts in 2014, and used proprietary Yahoo software to gain access to about 6,500 of them.Exactly what information the Russian spies obtained is not clear from the court papers. But prosecutors noted that some of the accounts that were penetrated belonged to American government officials, “including cybersecurity, diplomatic, military and White House personnel,” according to the indictment. The court papers also outlined a secondary scheme, in which the F.S.B. officers paid a Canadian hacker to breach individual Gmail accounts.The indictment reveals varying tactics used by Russian intelligence at a time when officials are still investigating what the American intelligence community has characterized as Russian attempts to meddle in the 2016 election. There were low-tech strategies like the basic spear-phishing attacks that have become a fact of life for anyone online. And more exotic schemes, such as tricking Yahoo into believing that a computer in Russia was in fact a certain user’s home computer, allowing Russian intelligence officials instant access to an email account without a password.The list of targets is a glimpse into both the global reach of Russia’s spying apparatus and the internecine power struggles of Russia’s competing security agencies. Russian government officials were among the victims — including an officer with the Russian Internal Affairs Ministry’s cybercrime unit — suggesting that the F.S.B. was using its own intelligence resources to gain an advantage over a rival agency.“All Russian intel agencies are competitive and carnivorous,” Mark Galeotti, a Russia expert at the Institute of International Relations in Prague, said.Mr. Belan, who is 29 and has red-tinted hair, came into the F.B.I.’s cross hairs about five years ago, and was previously indicted on charges related to hacking into e-commerce companies. In December, in response to the American intelligence community’s conclusion that Russia had tried to meddle in the presidential election, the Obama administration announced sanctions against Mr. Belan and Evgeniy M. Bogachev, who is also suspected of being a cyberthief and appears also to have ties to Russian intelligence.Arkady Bukh, the Manhattan lawyer who represented Mr. Belan after his arrest in Greece, said he had not heard from Mr. Belan since he skipped bail and returned to Russia in 2013.“For the last couple of years he cannot be reached,” Mr. Bukh said. “He disappeared.”But even while working under Russian intelligence, Mr. Belan kept up his old rackets. Once he breached Yahoo, he began searching for things to steal, such as gift cards or credit card numbers found in email accounts. According to the indictment, he ran a large spam campaign, and also tweaked some of the servers associated with Yahoo’s search engine so that men searching for erectile dysfunction medication would be redirected to an online pharmacy that paid him a commission for driving traffic to the site.The indictment does not say how Mr. Belan was recruited, or whether the idea for the Yahoo breach originated with him or the F.S.B. Nor does the indictment say how the F.B.I. identified Mr. Belan and the F.S.B. agents.Officials provided little information about Mr. Sushchin, 43, an F.S.B. supervisor who the indictment says was embedded as a cybersecurity expert in a Russian financial firm. But there is plenty of intrigue swirling about Mr. Dokuchaev, 33, whom the indictment describes as Mr. Belan’s direct F.S.B. contact.In Russia, Mr. Dokuchaev was arrested on suspicion of treason in early December and accused of passing secret information to the United States. The authorities have offered no public details of the charges, in what is the highest-profile counterintelligence detentions in the post-Soviet period.After the arrests, RBC, a respected Moscow newspaper, described Mr. Dokuchaev as a former hacker using the online pseudonym “Forb” — who agreed work for the F.S.B. to avoid prosecution for credit card fraud.In an interview with Vedomosti newspaper in 2004, a hacker identified as Forb bragged about hacking a “U.S. government website,” calling it his “crowning achievement.”Andrew Kramer contributed reporting.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the Morning Briefing newsletter.

Supported byBy Jonah Engel BromwichIn an era of digital crimes, some thieves are still doing it the old-fashioned way.When two masked men pulled up outside an A.T.M. in a ShopRite grocery store in Covington Township, Pa., early Tuesday morning, their tools consisted of a stolen dump truck, a long cable and a chain.A video shows them jumping out of the 2005 Chevrolet — which had a snowplow and a salt spreader attached and had been taken from a country club nearby — and hurrying inside to attach the chain to the A.T.M. in a vestibule on the side of the store.About 30 seconds later, with precision and impressive aim, they yanked the cash machine outside through the narrow door, shattering the glass and making their getaway.The A.T.M. had about $14,000 when it was stolen, said Bernie Klocko, the police chief of Covington Township in Lackawanna County. The truck and part of the machine were recovered in the area the same day. But the A.T.M.’s cash box was missing.Chief Klocko said on Wednesday that while there had been a string of A.T.M. thefts throughout Lackawanna County “a year or two ago,” he had never before seen a burglary quite like this one.“They were hitting the small machines that were inside restaurants or delis,” he said of the previous thefts. “Something like this is a first for us.”The Pennsylvania State Police are investigating the theft, and Connie Devens, a spokeswoman, said that these kind of crimes were “relatively rare.” She added that there weren’t a large number of A.T.M.’s being stolen in the area, but that such thefts were still occurring in the state.A.T.M.s, which typically can hold up to a thousand bills of any denomination, have long been an obvious target for thieves. But just as technological advances have disrupted legitimate industries, they have also wended their way into the criminal world.In 2013, for example, an international team of thieves working in coordination infiltrated a credit card processing company based in the United States and stole $45 million from thousands of A.T.M.s in the span of a couple of hours. (In a trial run the year before, they had stolen $5 million using a similar scheme, an indictment said.)“In the place of guns and masks, this cybercrime organization used laptops and the internet,” said Loretta E. Lynch, who was the United States attorney in Brooklyn at the time, and is now the United States attorney general.Jeremy Camhi, 40, a sales manager at A.T.M. Depot, a wholesaler, said in an interview on Wednesday that thefts of the machines had become more rare after manufacturers removed obvious points of vulnerability to criminals using analog methods.“You used to have people prying the machines open with a crowbar,” he said. “But the manufacturers came out with a metal plate that covers the entry point on the vault door.”Mr. Camhi said that while he still saw crimes like the one on Tuesday night in Pennsylvania, “mostly on the news,” they, too, had become “very rare,” partly because most business owners put their machines at the back of their stores.But even as digital crimes are on the rise, old-fashioned heists seem unlikely to ever completely go out of style.Two months before the episode in Lackawanna County, a man stole a bucket filled with $1.6 million worth of gold flakes off the back of an armored truck in Midtown Manhattan. Video shows the man scampering off in broad daylight, clutching the bucket.He is still at large, and is believed to be in Florida, the police said.

Supported byBy Dan BilefskyThe ransom demand arrived one recent morning by email, after about a dozen guests were locked out of their rooms at the lakeside Alpine hotel in Austria.The electronic key system at the picturesque Romantik Seehotel Jaegerwirt had been infiltrated, and the hotel was locked out of its own computer system, leaving guests stranded in the lobby, causing confusion and panic.“Good morning?” the email began, according to the hotel’s managing director, Christoph Brandstaetter. It went on to demand a ransom of two Bitcoins, or about $1,800, and warned that the cost would double if the hotel did not comply with the demand by the end of the day, Jan. 22.Mr. Brandstaetter said the email included details of a “Bitcoin wallet” — the account in which to deposit the money — and ended with the words, “Have a nice day!”With the 111-year-old hotel brimming with eager skiers, hikers and vacationers, some having paid about $530 for a suite with a panoramic view and sauna, Mr. Brandstaetter said he decided to cave in.Guests had already complained that their electronic room keys were not working, and receptionists’ efforts to create new ones had proved futile. Bashing down the doors was not an option.The reservation system for the hotel in the village of Turracherhöhe, about 90 minutes by car from Salzburg, was paralyzed.“We were at maximum capacity with 180 guests and decided that it was better to give in,” he said. “The hackers were very pushy.”Security experts said the attack on the hotel appeared to be a novel example of an increasingly malicious and prevalent type of modern-day piracy.The weapon? A type of software known as ransomware.The crime is as simple as it is mendacious. Victims typically receive an email with a link or attachment that contains software that encrypts files on their computer and holds them hostage until they pay a ransom. Many of the hackers who carry out such attacks operate in Russia and Eastern Europe, according to the police, and often demand a ransom in Bitcoin, a digital currency that is hard to trace.“Ransomware is becoming a pandemic,” said Tony Neate, a former British police officer who investigated cybercrime for 15 years. “With the internet, anything can be switched on and off, from computers to cameras to baby monitors.”Still, he added, “hacking a hotel and locking people out of their rooms is a new line of attack.”Mr. Neate, now chief executive of Get Safe Online, a government-backed security charity in Britain, said that demands in ransomware schemes were usually low enough that victims would acquiesce. As a result, however, hackers waged dozens of attacks a day to make them financially viable.He nevertheless counseled victims not to pay, arguing that that would only further encourage more attacks and that the funds used to pay the ransom would bankroll nefarious activity, including possibly terrorism. Hotels, he warned, should also guard against copycat crimes by reinforcing their digital security.According to the United States Justice Department, ransomware attacks quadrupled in 2016 to an average of 4,000 a day. The F.B.I. said the costs to victims of such attacks rose to $209 million in the first three months of 2016, compared with $24 million throughout 2015.It is a sign of the crime’s sinister proliferation that it has also entered popular culture.In an episode of the legal drama “The Good Wife,” a Russian hacker attacked a law firm in the middle of a prominent case, encrypting its files and demanding a $50,000 ransom. The hacker eventually relented after the firm turned the tables by infecting the extortionist’s computer with propaganda criticizing Russia’s president, Vladimir V. Putin.In the real world, however, many have been forced to pay up.Last year, hospitals in California and Kentucky were targeted in ransomware attacks. In one case, a Los Angeles hospital paid more than $17,000 to hackers to restore its computer network, and all of its digital medical files. Other victims in Europe and the United States have included a  municipal utility, companies, schools, law firms and police departments.A recent study by the Institute for Critical Infrastructure Technology, a Washington-based organization focusing on cybersecurity, noted that ransomware threatened to “wreak havoc on America’s critical infrastructure community” and called it the digital equivalent of a “centuries old criminal tactic.”Mr. Brandstaetter said he had decided to go public with the attack at his hotel so that others would be more vigilant.To guard against future attacks, however, he said the Romantik Seehotel Jaegerwirt was considering replacing its electronic keys with old-fashioned door locks and real keys of the type used when his great-grandfather founded the hotel.“The securest way not to get hacked,” he said, “is to be offline and to use keys.”Follow Dan Bilefsky on Twitter @DanBilefsky.

Supported byAsia and Australia EditionBy Charles McDermidGood morning. Here’s what you need to know:• President Trump gave highly classified information on ISIS to Russia in an Oval Office meeting last week, breaking a deal with an ally, officials said.In Washington, Senate Republicans are showing signs of edging away from Mr. Trump in order to forge a more traditional agenda and protect their political fortunes.Separately, lawmakers from both parties called on Mr. Trump to turn over any tapes of conversations with James Comey, the recently fired F.B.I. chief._____• A global cyberattack continued to ripple through politics and markets, especially in Asia.China, which reported disruptions at nearly 40,000 organizations, was especially susceptible because of the prevalence of pirated software there.Affected institutions include two of China’s most prestigious universities and blue-chip companies in Japan like Hitachi and Nissan. Solving cybercrimes like the ransomware attack involves old-school sleuthing.In Australia, Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull said the attacks seemed to be limited mostly to small businesses.Above, a cancer hospital in Jakarta where service was disrupted._____• The U.N. Security Council unanimously condemned North Korea’s missile test on Sunday.Pyongyang said the ballistic missile could carry a nuclear warhead, and warned the U.S. that its military bases in the Pacific were within its range.A survey of more than 1,700 adult Americans found that only 36 percent could place North Korea on a map. Those who could locate it were more likely to favor diplomacy over military action.Above, a map of respondents’ guesses._____• In Iran, the conservative camp appears to be consolidating ahead of Friday’s presidential election.The hard-line mayor of Tehran withdrew from the race and threw his support behind Ebrahim Raisi, a former top judiciary official, who is seen as the main threat to the moderate incumbent, President Hassan Rouhani.Few Iranians are optimistic that the election will help end a cycle of poverty and turn around a dysfunctional economy._____• How did a tsunami in Japan endanger children in Cambodia? By setting off an unexpected shortage of iodine, an element crucial to early brain growth.Cambodia began iodizing table salt in 1999, with good results. But after the 2011 disaster in Japan, the global price of iodine tripled.Since then, iodine concentrations in Cambodian children have dropped by 30 percent, and doctors and aid agencies are rushing to prevent permanent damage._____• We traveled to a mountaintop village in the Philippines to meet a tattoo artist with almost mythical status.Meet Maria Fang-od Oggay, thought to be 100 years old, who uses the traditional tattooing methods of her ethnic group, the Kalinga.An appearance in a 2009 documentary shot her to fame, and she now attracts clients from all over the world.• Saudi Arabia and Russia, the world’s biggest oil exporters, agreed to extend production cuts to shore up global prices.• Developing countries are wielding a new weapon: hacking. Vietnam is a case in point, experts say; a group that targets foreign companies appears to be state sponsored.• New Zealand’s prime minister travels to Japan, hoping to salvage elements of the Trans-Pacific Partnership.• Lyft, the ride-hailing firm, and Waymo, a unit of Google’s parent company,  will collaborate on self-driving cars.• U.S. stocks were up across the board. Here’s a snapshot of global markets.• Officials in Papua New Guinea told asylum seekers on Manus Island that they must leave the Australia-funded detention center so it can be shut down. [ABC]• The U.S. released satellite images from Syria that officials said show a crematory at a military prison outside Damascus. They say it is being used to hide mass executions. [The New York Times]• A court in northern India will decide if a 10-year-old girl who was repeatedly raped and who is now at least five months pregnant, can have an abortion or will be forced to give birth. [The New York Times]• Philippine lawmakers threw out an impeachment complaint against President Rodrigo Duterte that accused him of mass murder. [The New York Times]• In Venezuela, economic missteps, power grabs and political opportunism have pushed the country to the brink of collapse. [The New York Times]• South Korea’s new president, Moon Jae-in, who pledged to fight air pollution, suspended 10 coal power plants and vowed to eventually shut them down completely. [Quartz]• Social media platforms, meanwhile, are abuzz over President Moon’s “handsome brigade,” a reference to his attractive entourage led by a good-looking bodyguard. [Korea Times]• “My life is like a book that’s too sad to read.” An essay by a Chinese domestic helper has gone viral, propelling her to literary stardom. [Caixin]• Teff, a super grain that is a staple for distance runners from Ethiopia, could make running a marathon (slightly) easier.• There is a right way to wash your hair. A Parisian colorist has a neat trick or two on how to shampoo for volume and shine.• Recipe of the day: Weeknight salmon is much better with a parsley sauce.• The Louis Vuitton 2018 cruise collection showed a passion for Japan’s aesthetic, with references to both classical (Kabuki masks) and contemporary (1970s girl-gang films), our fashion critic writes.• Si Woo Kim, 21, became the youngest golfer to win the Players Championship, which featured 48 of the world’s top 50 players.• Chasing the Kushners. A Times journalist in Beijing tells of being kicked out of an investors’ event held by the family company of Jared Kushner, the son-in-law of President Trump.Put on your party hats: The world is celebrating a series of royal birthdays.Last week, European royals gathered in Oslo to honor the 80th birthdays of King Harald V and Queen Sonja of Norway. (He actually hit the milestone in February; she will in July.)A highlight was a cruise on the royal yacht, a fitting setting for the king, an admiral and accomplished sailor who represented Norway in three Olympics.And King Norodom Sihamoni of Cambodia, above, turned 64 on Sunday. His background as a cultural ambassador and Unesco delegate may have also helped with his royal duties. He is also an accomplished classical dancer and studied filmmaking in North Korea.A few days before, he presided over the nation’s Royal Plowing Ceremony, in which sacred oxen forecast the year’s crops. (It is predicted to be a good year for corn, beans and rice.)Back in Europe, Queen Máxima of the Netherlands celebrates a birthday on Wednesday.And arguably the biggest royal birthday comes next month, when Queen Elizabeth II of Britain celebrates her 91st. She is the world’s oldest — and longest-serving — monarch. Although she was born April 21, her birthday is officially celebrated in June each year._____This briefing was prepared for the Asian morning. We also have briefings timed for the Australian, European and American mornings. You can sign up for these and other Times newsletters here.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.

Supported byGood Thursday. Here’s what we’re watching:• Why Walmart is raising its hourly wage.• South Korea spooks the market for digital money.• Bond market investors feel some fear, but will stock market bulls?• And what will happen next with the Trump administration’s plans to reopen offshore drilling?Want this in your own email inbox? Here’s the sign-up.What the retail giant is doing:• Raising the starting wage for all hourly workers to $11 an hour, starting next month and costing an extra $300 million• Expanding maternity leave to 10 weeks and paid parental leave to six weeks• Adding a new benefit for adoption expenses of $5,000 per child• Giving out bonuses of up to $1,000 for eligible workers, determined by tenure, up to a total of $400 millionWho benefits: Walmart said in its most recent annual report that it had nearly 1.5 million associates in the U.S. That’s much bigger than any other company that has announced tax-related worker benefits to date. (AT&amp;T, for instance, has roughly 200,000 employees who will likely benefit from that company’s $1,000-per-worker bonus.)From C.E.O. Doug McMillon:“We are early in the stages of assessing the opportunities tax reform creates for us to invest in our customers and associates and to further strengthen our business, all of which should benefit our shareholders. However, some guiding themes are clear and consistent with how we’ve been investing — lower prices for customers, better wages and training for associates and investments in the future of our company, including in technology. Tax reform gives us the opportunity to be more competitive globally and to accelerate plans for the U.S.”Who benefits: Walmart said in its most recent annual report that it had nearly 1.5 million associates in the U.S. That’s much bigger than any other company that has announced tax-related worker benefits to date. (AT&amp;T, for instance, has roughly 200,000 employees who will likely benefit from that company’s $1,000-per-worker bonus.)What else is behind the move? The retailer’s efforts to keep workers amid a tightening labor market, which has led companies to fight to keep workers. (The current unemployment rate is at just 4.7 percent.)More from Matthew Boyle of Bloomberg:With the wage increase and bonus payment, the world’s biggest retailer seeks to even its pay gap with resurgent rival Target Corp., while simultaneously sending a high-profile thank you to the U.S. government for slashing the corporate tax rate.Critics’ corner— Michael J. de la MercedDropbox has filed confidentially with the Securities and Exchange Commission to go public, Bloomberg reports.The closely-held file-sharing company with a valuation of $10 billion is among a group of high-profile tech start-ups that investors have been waiting for to go public. The offering would follow the disappointing debut of another of those companies, Snap, in March. Shares of Snap are down 15 percent from their initial public offering price.Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan will be the lead underwriters on the I.P.O.Dropbox had annualized sales of more than $1 billion, its chief executive, Drew Houston, told Bloomberg in January last year.Bloomberg reports: “A timing quirk in the tax overhaul that President Donald Trump signed last month may be good news for companies such as Apple Inc., Microsoft Corp. and Cisco Systems Inc., all of which began their fiscal years before Jan. 1.”The provision at issue, “in effect, gives a company until the end of its fiscal year to measure what’s cash and what isn’t for tax purposes,”That means companies, which began their fiscal years before Jan. 1, have more time “to reduce foreign cash they’ll accumulate this year.”Apple, for one, “may be able to lop more than $4 billion off a future tax bill,” according to Stephen Shay, a tax and business law professor at Harvard Law School, who wrote the “potential loophole” last month.Shares in the money-transfer services provider were up as much as 8 percent this morning after the company said that it was testing the use of Ripple’s XRP.It’s not quite the same as becoming Long Blockchain, but it still reflects the enthusiasm among investors that arises when a company associates itself with the virtual currency industry.From Moneygram’s C.E.O., Alex Holmes:“Every day blockchain technology is changing the norm and encouraging innovation. Ripple is at the forefront of blockchain technology and we look forward to piloting xRapid. We’re hopeful it will increase efficiency and improve services to MoneyGram’s customers.”— Michael J. de la MercedHere’s what the veteran Wall Street consigliere told Bloomberg:“Cryptocurrencies create so many issues that no one agency can be legitimately expected to deal with them, and FSOC would be an ideal place to bring the agencies together.”— Michael J. de la MercedAs of this morning, Bitcoin was down 4.5 percent, Ethereum was down 9 percent and Ripple was down 13 percent, according to CoinMarketCap.Thank the South Korean government, which may  ban virtual currency trading in what has been the third-largest market.Behind the potential moveOfficials have been concerned about tax evasion and rampant speculation.More from Song Jung-a and Bryan Harris of the FT:“There are great concerns regarding virtual currencies and the justice ministry is basically preparing a bill to ban cryptocurrency trading through exchanges,” said Park Sang-ki, South Korea’s justice minister.A spokesman for President Moon Jae-in played down the comments, saying nothing was finalized. But investors remained spooked.Bitcoin fever shows no other signs of stopping, however. Binance.com, a big virtual currency exchange, said that it had signed up 240,000 users in an hour yesterday. And strategists at Goldman Sachs wrote that virtual currencies may work as real money someday, particularly in developing countries.The virtual currency flyaround• Matt Levine writes that a pump-and-dump mentality that has taken hold of some Bitcoin trading. (Bloomberg View)• The answer to Bitcoin’s energy-use problem could be a 23-million-digit prime number. (Bloomberg)• The North American Bitcoin Conference no longer takes Bitcoin for ticket payments. (CNBC)The S. &amp; P. 500 closed down slightly yesterday at 2,748.23. The Dow did the same, at 25,369.13. As Barron’s writes, “Stocks slid on Wednesday, because sometimes they do that.”But is there cause for fear? Bond investors appear to think so.What happened: The yield for 10-year Treasuries hit a nine-month intraday high of almost 2.6 percent yesterday.Why? • Central banks’ continuing withdrawal from crisis-era bond purchases• Investor worry that inflation will edge up• That Bloomberg report about China hesitating over Treasury purchases (although a Chinese government agency has cast doubt on it)The even bigger worryThat China will use its central bank to throw a brushback pitch at the U.S. Here’s what Brad Setser of the Council on Foreign Relations told the NYT:“It is possible too that China wants to signal to its people that it will not keep financing the U.S. when the U.S. is not treating China with respect.”Analysts at the Eurasia Group found that scenario unlikely in a recent note.Critics’ corner• Bill Gross declared that we’re now in a bond bear market. (Bloomberg)• Richard Barley asks, “Is the great bond blowout finally happening?” (WSJ)Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke has already removed Florida from his department’s plan to reopen oil drilling off U.S. coastlines — which pleased the state’s governor, Rick Scott, but angered nearly everyone else.Here’s who else wants out:• South Carolina, New Jersey and Maryland, all led by Republicans• New York, North Carolina, Delaware and California, all led by DemocratsMore on the stakes, from Timothy Puko of the WSJ:“If its final decisions on what is or is not open to leasing ignores environmental impact and appears to be driven by nothing but politics, the courts could set it aside,” said John Leshy, an emeritus professor at University of California, Hastings College of the Law in San Francisco who was the Interior’s solicitor during the Clinton administration.The environmental long read: “The Rockefellers vs. the Company that Made Them Rockefellers,” in New York magazine.• The naming of Ajit Jain and Greg Abel as vice chairmen of Berkshire Hathaway, as part of a dispersal of Warren Buffett’s responsibilities, “might sound like a fudge — but it’s also a sensible division of labor,” John Foley writes. (Breakingviews)• Tara Lachapelle appears to be in the “Greg Abel is the next Berkshire C.E.O.” camp. (Gadfly)• The Oracle of Omaha himself said that his health was fine and he was staying as C.E.O. He added of the two men: “They both have Berkshire in their blood. They love the company.” (NYT)As President Trump negotiates with lawmakers over a deal to protect the undocumented immigrants known as Dreamers, corporate leaders aren’t letting up.An open letter to Congressional leaders from 141 signatories — including Ginni Rometty of IBM, Jeff Bezos of Amazon, Sheryl Sandberg of Facebook, Dara Khosrowshahi of Uber and Steve Schwarzman of Blackstone — demanded a “permanent bipartisan solution.”More from the letter:In addition to causing a tremendous upheaval in the lives of DACA employees, failure to act in time will lead to businesses losing valuable talent, cause disruptions in the work force, and will result in significant costs.A roadblock: Several House Republicans have put forth an immigration proposal that clashes with Mr. Trump’s parameters for a bipartisan deal. One of them, Representative Raúl Labrador of Idaho, warned, “This is the only bill that’s going to unify the conference, and it’s going to get us to a majority of the conference.”The Washington flyaround• Mr. Trump declined to commit to being interviewed by Robert Mueller, backing away from a statement last year. And Mr. Mueller has hired Ryan Dickey, a veteran cybercrimes prosecutor. (NYT)• Mr. Trump’s companies sold more than $35 million worth of real estate last year, 70 percent of it to shell companies that obscured the buyers’ identities. (USA Today)• During a meeting about immigration, Mr. Trump suggested bringing back earmarks, the practice of stuffing funding for pet projects into legislation. (NYT)• Lawmakers in at least six states have introduced bills to forbid internet providers from blocking or slowing down sites or online services, a response to the F.C.C.’s repeal of net neutrality rules. (NYT)• The Trump administration plans to unveil a revision to banking rules that mandate lending to poor borrowers. (WSJ)The showstopper at the American Economic Association’s conference was a panel stocked with women, presenting research that showed the systemic forces arrayed against them in the field — and prompting pledges from leaders to do better.More from Jim Tankersley and Noam Scheiber of the NYT:Paper after paper presented at the American Economic Association panel showed a pattern of gender discrimination, beginning with barriers women face in choosing to study economics and extending through the life cycle of their careers, including securing job opportunities, writing research papers, gaining access to top publications and earning proper credit for published work.Over in Hollywood: Controversy has erupted over reshoots of the movie “All the Money in the World,” for which Michelle Williams was paid scale and Mark Wahlberg an additional $1.2 million.The misconduct flyaround• The creator of the anonymous “Shitty Media Men” spreadsheet revealed herself amid controversy over whether Harper’s Magazine would do so. (NYT)• James Rosen, a former correspondent for Fox News, and Joel Achenbach, a reporter at the WaPo, face allegations of workplace misconduct. (NPR, WaPo)Meet Guo Wengui, who’s living in exile in a penthouse in Central Park after lobbing hard-to-verify accusations at China’s elite.Here’s what he said of the anti-corruption czar Wang Qishan, according to Lauren Hilgers of the NYT Magazine:Wang Qishan, Guo has claimed, is hiding the money he secretly earned in the Hainan-based conglomerate HNA Group, a company with an estimated $35 billion worth of investments in the United States. (HNA Group denies any ties to Wang and is suing Guo.) He accused Wang of carrying on an affair with the actress Fan Bingbing. (Fan is reportedly suing Guo for defamation.)• Lazard has hired Andrea Bozzi, most recently the co-head of French investment banking at Credit Suisse, as a managing director in Paris, Reuters reports.• HSBC has hired Michael Parry, Liu Kang and Jimmy He for its Asia-Pacific equities team, Bloomberg reports.• Uber had a system called Ripley to remotely shut down computers and lock up data when police raided its overseas offices, according to three people with knowledge of the system. (Bloomberg)• Ferrero of Italy is close to formalizing a $2.8 billion deal for Nestlé’s U.S. candy business. (FT)• Blackstone agreed to pay about $1.1 billion for a luxury resort on the Hawaiian island of Maui, according to a person with knowledge of the deal. (Bloomberg)• Google bought Redux, a British start-up whose technology lets phone displays double as speakers. (Bloomberg)• Bain Capital, Blackstone Group and Silver Lake have expressed interest in Li Tong Group, an iPhone recycling business that could be worth as much as $1 billion, according to people familiar with the matter. (Bloomberg)• SS &amp; C Technology Holdings, which provides tech infrastructure for finance, is in advanced talks to buy DST Systems, a rival also active in the health care market, for more than $5 billion, according to people familiar with the matter. (Reuters)• Intel released test results showing that its chip security fixes would slow personal computers by no more than 10 percent. Initial reports suggested a larger impact. (Bloomberg)• The Federal Reserve’s economic stimulus campaign turned a big profit again in 2017, but the windfall is showing signs of slowing. (NYT)• Chinese-born, U.S.-trained tech talent is increasingly returning to China, drawn by plentiful venture capital and government incentives for research. (Bloomberg)• How (and why) the former Disney chairman Michael Eisner won over the fan-owners of a fourth-tier English soccer club. (NYT)• Private debt collectors brought the Internal Revenue Service $6.7 million in the last fiscal year — at a cost of $20 million. (NYT)• Canada has filed a sweeping World Trade Organization case against U.S. tariffs. (NYT)• Advisers at some of the biggest discount brokerage firms make more money if they steer clients toward more expensive products, according to disclosures from the firms and former employees. (WSJ)We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.

Supported byBy Andrew E. KramerMOSCOW — Before United States prosecutors accused him of having orchestrated one of the largest computer thefts, Dmitry A. Dokuchaev’s legal problems were deepening in Russia, where he was once known by the hacker alias Forb and specialized in purloining credit card numbers.Mr. Dokuchaev, a stocky 33-year-old who appears on an F.B.I. “wanted” poster wearing a blue suit and with a mop of sandy hair, is emerging as a central figure in fraught relations between the United States and Russia on cybersecurity issues.Those relations went into a deep chill in December, when the Obama administration accused Russian intelligence agencies of having meddled in the 2016 election by hacking computers of the Democratic National Committee to help Donald J. Trump win.Mr. Dokuchaev, a hacker-turned-security-officer in Russia, is a villain in the narratives of both countries about this conflict, for different reasons.The Russians have accused him of becoming a double agent for the United States. The American authorities say he doubled as a cybercriminal while working for Russia’s Federal Security Service, or F.S.B., the main security and intelligence agency in the country.Mr. Dokuchaev, who was arrested four months ago in Russia, is accused of treason, punishable by 20 years imprisonment, on suspicion of having passed information to the United States.While the precise nature of that information is unclear, signs have emerged that it may be related, at least indirectly, to the American accusations of electoral hacking.On Wednesday, federal prosecutors in Washington and San Francisco announced an indictment identifying Mr. Dokuchaev as one of the defendants in the theft of half a billion Yahoo accounts.“He’s a guy without many options,” said Pavel Vrublevsky, a computer entrepreneur and owner of an online payment processing company in Russia who was investigated in 2011 by Mr. Dokuchaev when he worked as an F.S.B. officer.The Kremlin on Thursday denied ties to criminal hacking. “We have repeatedly stated that there can be absolutely no question of any official agency, including the F.S.B., in any unlawful actions in cyberspace,” said Dmitri S. Peskov, the Kremlin spokesman.Mr. Dokuchaev was arrested in December along with another officer in the Center for Information Security, the cyberintelligence wing of the F.S.B. The Russian authorities have offered no details of the charges, but Novaya Gazeta, a Russian newspaper, reported they had been arrested in an investigation into leaks that had led the F.B.I. to Russian servers linked to electoral hacking.Regardless of the details, the Russian and American cases portend a bleak future for Mr. Dokuchaev, whose career encapsulates ties between criminal hackers and the security services in post-Soviet Russia.By his own account, he once went by the hacker nickname Forb. According to a 2004 interview he gave to Vedomosti, a Russian newspaper, Mr. Dokuchaev, then 20, worked from home in the provincial city of Yekaterinburg, taking orders from anonymous clients to crash websites and steal passwords.“I always believed that information should be free,” he told the newspaper. He also said carding, the online theft of credit card numbers, was the most profitable activity for Russian hackers, up to $30,000 a month, but was “the most dangerous cybercrime, punished mercilessly.”Vitali Kremez, director of research at Flashpoint, a cybersecurity company in New York that monitors underground hacking forums, said that until a few years ago, Mr. Dokuchaev had been actively involved in the world of stolen credit cards.On those forums, Mr. Dokuchaev inquired about buying skimmers, devices that allow thieves to steal credit card numbers as the cards are swiped. He also sought to buy encoders, used to transfer stolen card numbers onto new plastic cards.In January, RBC, a Russian newspaper, reported that Mr. Dokuchaev’s prosecution for credit card fraud had been averted when he agreed to work for the F.S.B.The evolution of a hacker into an F.S.B. officer was all but an open secret in Moscow. Until at least 2011, Mr. Dokuchaev was an editor of a Russian magazine titled Hacker, and he edited a section known as “Breaking In” under the byline Dmitry “Forb” Dokuchaev.By 2010, Mr. Dokuchaev was already working for the F.S.B.’s Center for Information Security and aiding the prosecution of hackers accused of crashing the online payment system of Aeroflot airlines, according to Mr. Vrublevsky, who was a defendant in that case.At the time, Russia was under diplomatic pressure from the United States and Canada to prosecute Mr. Vrublevsky on an unrelated charge of selling counterfeit Viagra pills to Americans through websites. Mr. Vrublevsky has denied ties to that scheme.In the indictment unsealed on Wednesday, the United States authorities indicated that Mr. Dokuchaev’s group also had dabbled in spam marketing for erectile dysfunction drugs.The American indictment contains no indication Mr. Dokuchaev played any role in Russian electoral hacking. But it identified him as having overseen the work of one of three others named in the indictment, a suspected cybercriminal, Aleksei Belan, whom the Obama administration had sanctioned in December after the United States intelligence agencies concluded Russia had tried to meddle in the election.Mr. Vrublevsky said he believed the treason arrests that halted Mr. Dokuchaev’s career had been related to the Aeroflot case and other events predating the presidential election.Amid diplomatic pressure from the United States and Canada to shut down the Viagra scheme, Mr. Vrublevsky said, Mr. Dokuchaev and a colleague had passed information about Russian hackers to the United States, later deemed treasonous.The information included data on payments through WebMoney, a Russian version of PayPal, used later by American law enforcement investigators to follow the trail to Russian hackers, Mr. Vrublevsky said.That data, he said, sharpened the Americans’ understanding of Russian hacking, which later aided the investigation of electoral hacking during the campaign.“America calling him a cybercriminal doesn’t rule out his being a spy as well,” Mr. Vrublevsky said.Follow Andrew E. Kramer on Twitter @AndrewKramerNYT. Vindu Goel contributed reporting from San Francisco.

