Supported byGood Friday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today._____________________• After seven years of hiding in the Ecuadorean Embassy in London, Julian Assange, the founder of WikiLeaks, was arrested on Thursday after Ecuador revoked his asylum status. Mr. Assange faces a charge in the United States of conspiring to hack a Pentagon computer as part of the 2010 release of secret American documents by Chelsea Manning.• Mr. Assange’s indictment makes no mention of the central role WikiLeaks played in the Russian campaign to undermine the 2016 presidential election. It remains unclear whether his arrest will be a key to unlocking any of the lingering mysteries surrounding Russia and the Trump campaign.• At the tiny Ecuadorean Embassy, he ran WikiLeaks, held news conferences, rode his skateboard in the halls and hosted visitors like Pamela Anderson. Here’s the story of Mr. Assange’s seven years in isolation.• The creation of WikiLeaks empowered a generation of whistle-blowers, enraging the powerful in many countries. But Mr. Assange himself became a highly problematic champion for the principles of freedom of the press and the public’s right to information.• Gregory B. Craig, a former aide to President Barack Obama, was charged with lying to the Justice Department and concealing information about work he did for the Russia-aligned government of Ukraine in 2012.• The former F.B.I. director James B. Comey said he knew of no electronic surveillance aimed at the Trump campaign during the 2016 election, contradicting Attorney General William P. Barr’s speculations that the bureau had spied on the campaign.• As the United States and China edge closer to a trade agreement, securing a firm commitment from China to hold up its end of the deal will help determine whether it's seen as a real win for President Trump or just a capitulation.• Congress is leaving for a two-week spring recess without fulfilling the most pressing item on its agenda: aid to victims of floods, fires, and hurricanes. The biggest point of contention? Helping Puerto Rico.• During the House Democrats’ annual retreat, the leadership criticized the president on immigration and his choices for the Federal Reserve, but also hoped to cut deals with him and Senate Republicans that will allow them to deliver on their campaign promises.• At least four Republican senators indicated they wouldn’t support Herman Cain, Mr. Trump’s choice for the Fed board, leaving the former pizza magnate’s chances all but dead.• Mr. Trump said Thursday that he would be open to a third summit meeting with North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un. He hopes to resuscitate negotiations that foundered six weeks ago in Vietnam._____________________Today’s On Politics briefing was compiled by Isabella Grullón Paz in New York.Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox.Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.

Supported byBy Charlie Savage, Adam Goldman and Eileen SullivanWASHINGTON — The WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange was arrested on Thursday in London to face a charge in the United States of conspiring to hack into a Pentagon computer network in 2010, bringing to an abrupt end a seven-year saga in which he had holed up in Ecuador’s embassy in Britain to avoid capture.The Ecuadorean government suspended the citizenship it had granted Mr. Assange and evicted him on Thursday, clearing the way for his arrest. His hosts had displayed growing impatience, listing grievances including recent WikiLeaks releases they said interfered with other states’ internal affairs and personal discourtesies, like the failure of Mr. Assange to clean the bathroom and look after his cat.A bedraggled and shackled Mr. Assange, 47, was dragged out of the embassy. At a court hearing, a judge swiftly found him guilty of jumping bail, and he was detained partly in connection with an American extradition warrant. Mr. Assange indicated that he would fight extradition, and legal experts said that process could take years. He is likely to argue that the case is politically motivated rather than driven by legitimate legal concerns.Mr. Assange’s arrest brought to a head long-simmering tensions that have raised profound First Amendment press freedom issues. Since Mr. Assange began publishing archives of secret American military and diplomatic documents in 2010 — provided by the former Army intelligence analyst Chelsea Manning — senior officials in two administrations had weighed whether to try to put him out of business by charging him with a crime. Ms. Manning was convicted at a court-martial trial in 2013 of leaking the documents.The Obama administration had explored whether to bring charges against Mr. Assange but decided not to, in part because of fears of creating a precedent that could chill traditional journalism. But in November, an accidental court filing appeared to disclose that the Trump administration had secretly charged him with some unspecified offense.The indictment unsealed Thursday, however, revealed that prosecutors in Northern Virginia had not charged Mr. Assange under the Espionage Act for publishing government secrets. Instead, they charged him with conspiring to commit unlawful computer intrusion based on his alleged agreement to try to help Ms. Manning break an encoded portion of passcode that would have permitted her to log on to a classified military network under another user’s identity.Because traditional journalistic activity does not extend to helping a source break a code to gain illicit access to a classified network, the charge appeared to be an attempt by prosecutors to sidestep the potential First Amendment minefield of treating the act of publishing information as a crime. Nevertheless, journalists should still be worried, said Barry Pollack, a lawyer for Mr. Assange.“While the indictment against Julian Assange disclosed today charges a conspiracy to commit computer crimes, the factual allegations against Mr. Assange boil down to encouraging a source to provide him information and taking efforts to protect the identity of that source,” Mr. Pollack said. “Journalists around the world should be deeply troubled by these unprecedented criminal charges.”Spokesmen for the Justice Department’s National Security Division and for the United States attorney in the Eastern District of Virginia declined to comment.The indictment of Julian Assange, the founder of WikiLeaks, filed in federal District Court in Virginia. (PDF, 7 pages, 0.22 MB)Mr. Assange has been in the sights of the United States government since his organization began publishing Ms. Manning’s leaks in 2010, bringing to light many secrets — like revealing that more civilians had died in Iraq than official estimates showed, detailing the accusations against Guantánamo detainees and airing American diplomats’ unvarnished takes on what was happening around the world — vaulting WikiLeaks to fame. A grand jury in Virginia began investigating people with links to WikiLeaks.Most recently, Mr. Assange has been under attack for his organization’s release during the 2016 presidential campaign of thousands of Democratic emails stolen by Russian hackers. (Russian intelligence officers apparently adopted the guise of a hacker calling itself Guccifer 2.0 when providing the files to WikiLeaks.) But the conspiracy charge against Mr. Assange is not related to WikiLeaks’ role in Russia’s operations to sabotage the election.The internal government debate over whether to charge Mr. Assange continued under the Trump administration and was accelerated by Jeff Sessions, the attorney general at the time, according to former officials involved in the discussions. It centered on whether Mr. Assange was a journalist or whether at least some of his actions could be deemed crimes unrelated to journalism.A hacking offense cited in the indictment carries an eight-year statute of limitations, which may have played a role in spurring the Trump administration to decide whether to move forward: The unsealed court papers indicated that a grand jury returned the indictment on March 6, 2018 — almost eight years to the day that Mr. Assange is accused of agreeing to help Ms. Manning try to crack the password, court papers showed.The indictment says Mr. Assange made that agreement on March 8, 2010. Had they succeeded, prosecutors said, it would have helped Ms. Manning cover her tracks by making it harder for the government to later identify who had copied files. But Mr. Assange’s efforts evidently failed — he told Ms. Manning two days later, on March 10, that he had “no luck so far,” according to the court filing.Also on March 8, prosecutors said, Ms. Manning told Mr. Assange, “After this upload, that’s all I really have got left.” Mr. Assange replied, “Curious eyes never run dry in my experience.”That exchange came at a time when Ms. Manning had copied and sent to WikiLeaks archives of logs of significant events in the Iraq and Afghanistan wars and dossiers about Guantánamo Bay detainees, but she had not yet sent the group hundreds of thousands of diplomatic cables from American embassies around the world, the indictment said. Weeks later, she began copying and uploading the State Department messages to WikiLeaks, it said.The pair also tried to cover their tracks by removing user names from the disclosed information and deleting their chat logs, according to the indictment.During her court-martial, in which some of Mr. Assange’s efforts to help were also discussed, Ms. Manning took complete responsibility for her actions and said that Mr. Assange had not pushed her to take them.“No one associated with W.L.O.” — an abbreviation she used to refer to the WikiLeaks organization — “pressured me into sending any more information,” she said at the time. “I take full responsibility.”Ms. Manning was convicted and sentenced to 35 years in prison for leaking the files and served about seven — the longest of any convicted leaker in American history — before President Barack Obama commuted most of the remainder of her sentence shortly before leaving office in 2017.Ms. Manning is in jail again. A judge held her in civil contempt last month for refusing to testify before a grand jury about her interactions with WikiLeaks.If Mr. Assange is convicted on the conspiracy to hack offense alone, he could face up to five years in prison. The government could later seek to charge him with additional offenses, but because of extradition practices, any such superseding indictment would most likely need to come soon, before Britain formally decides whether to transfer custody of him.Until recently, Mr. Assange’s Ecuadorean citizenship, granted in 2017, presented a hurdle in President Lenín Moreno’s efforts to remove him from the embassy. Ecuador’s Constitution limits the government’s ability to turn over citizens to a foreign justice system, especially if they could face torture or the death penalty, which are outlawed in Ecuador.The country’s former foreign minister, María Fernanda Espinosa, originally granted Mr. Assange’s citizenship, citing a policy that allowed certain foreigners under “international protection” to be naturalized. She argued that Mr. Assange’s refuge at the embassy was a case that qualified.However, on Thursday, Ecuador’s current foreign minister, José Valencia, said Mr. Assange’s citizenship had been suspended because of irregularities, opening the door for him to be handed to the British authorities.Mr. Assange took refuge in the Ecuadorean Embassy in June 2012 to avoid extradition to Sweden, where he faced questions about sexual assault accusations, which he has denied. Sweden rescinded its arrest warrant for Mr. Assange in 2017, but he refused to leave the embassy.Under a previous president, Ecuador had offered Mr. Assange citizenship and open-ended refuge in its embassy. But its government soured on the relationship as the years kept passing, and it eventually began to impose limits on what Mr. Assange could say and do.The Ecuadorean government said last year that it had cut off Mr. Assange’s internet access, saying that he had violated an agreement to stop commenting on, or trying to influence, the politics of other countries. The government also imposed other restrictions, like limiting his visitors. He sued in October, claiming that it was violating his rights.On Thursday, Mr. Moreno, who became Ecuador’s president in 2017, said on Twitter that his country had decided to stop sheltering Mr. Assange after “his repeated violations to international conventions and daily-life protocols.”Reporting was contributed by Katie Benner from Washington; David D. Kirkpatrick and Richard Pérez-Peña from London; Nicholas Casey from New York; and Raphael Minder from Madrid.Follow Adam Goldman, Charlie Savage and Eileen Sullivan on Twitter: @adamgoldmanNYT, @charlie_savage and @esullivannyt.

Paul Manafort’s Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dad’s Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back”House Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City Hotline2011: Arab Spring‘Can The President Be Impeached?’ We Answer Your QuestionsCalving Season

Supported byBy Charlie SavageWASHINGTON — Charges against Julian Assange, the founder and leader of WikiLeaks, that were unsealed on Thursday brought to a head a long-running debate about whether his actions could be construed as a crime and what prosecuting him would mean for American press freedoms.Mr. Assange vaulted to global fame in 2010, when his anti-secrecy website began posting archives of secret American military and diplomatic documents leaked by Chelsea Manning, an Army intelligence analyst who had downloaded them from a classified computer network she worked on at her outpost in Iraq. His image became more complicated in 2016, when WikiLeaks published stolen Democratic emails that the Russian government had hacked as part of its covert operation to damage Hillary Clinton and help Donald J. Trump win the presidency.Throughout that saga, national security and law enforcement officials in both the Obama and the Trump administrations have weighed whether they could charge Mr. Assange with a crime. That debate has raised concerns by press freedom advocates about what any precedent established by his case would mean for First Amendment rights and the future of investigative journalism in the United States.Mr. Assange is not a traditional journalist, but most of what he does at WikiLeaks is difficult to distinguish in a legally meaningful way from what traditional news organizations, like The New York Times, do every day: seek out and publish information that officials would prefer to be kept secret, including classified national security matters, and take steps to protect the confidentiality of sources.In recent years, prosecutors have begun far more regularly charging officials with leaking information to reporters under the Espionage Act, a World War I-era law. It criminalizes the disclosure of potentially damaging national security secrets to someone not authorized to receive them. On its face, the Espionage Act could also be used to prosecute reporters who publish government secrets.While many legal scholars believe that prosecuting reporters for doing their jobs would violate the First Amendment, the prospect has never been tested in court because the government has never charged a journalist under that law. The rumblings about prosecuting Mr. Assange raised the possibility that prosecutors could violate that norm and try to establish that publishing government secrets can be a crime.No. When the indictment was unsealed on Thursday, it showed that a grand jury had instead charged Mr. Assange with conspiring with Ms. Manning to illegally hack a government computer to obtain national security information.Specifically, the indictment said, on March 8, 2010, Mr. Assange agreed to help Ms. Manning try to crack part of an encoded password that would have let her log onto a classified computer network under a user name that did not belong to her. Prosecutors also cited a chat log from two days later that they said indicated that Mr. Assange had taken steps to act on that conspiracy: He said he had “no luck so far” in trying to crack the password.Not quite. For now, the case significantly reduces such concerns because it is outside traditional investigative journalism to help sources try to break passcodes so they can illegally hack into government computers.But some press freedom advocates say they remain concerned. For one thing, the Justice Department could file a superseding indictment, so there is no guarantee that Espionage Act charges will stay out of the case. Under extradition procedures, however, any additional charges would most likely have to come soon — before Britain decides whether to transfer custody of Mr. Assange.For another, prosecutors cited details that expanded beyond a narrow focus on cracking the passcode and that sounded like typical activities of a journalist. For example, the indictment talks about efforts to conceal conversations by using a special chat service and deleting certain chat logs. It also says Mr. Assange took a step to help Ms. Manning send him the files, by making a special folder for her to upload files.And it quotes a purported exchange midway through Ms. Manning’s leaks in which she wrote, “After this upload, that’s all I really have got left,” but Mr. Assange replied, “Curious eyes never run dry in my experience.” Several weeks later, according to the indictment, Ms. Manning copied and sent WikiLeaks the diplomatic cables.The Justice Department’s inclusion of those details as relevant to the case was cause for worry, said Jameel Jaffer, the executive director of the Knight First Amendment Institute at Columbia University.“The indictment and the Justice Department’s press release treat everyday journalistic practices as part of a criminal conspiracy,” he said. “Whether the government will be able to establish a violation of the hacking statute remains to be seen, but it’s very troubling that the indictment sweeps in activities that are not just lawful but essential to press freedom — activities like cultivating sources, protecting sources’ identities and communicating with sources securely.”It would not be easy.The Espionage Act does not cover the disclosure of unclassified emails like the Democratic messages, so prosecutors would have to come up with a theory in which publishing them violated some other law. Even if they could find one, a 2001 Supreme Court ruling held that the First Amendment did not permit prosecutors to charge people with crimes for publishing or broadcasting information so long as they broke no law in acquiring it — even if their sources had done something illegal to obtain it.No one has suggested that the Russians needed or had any help from Mr. Assange in hacking Democrats’ emails. And Mr. Assange has denied knowing who his source was; at the time, Russian military intelligence officers created the fictitious online persona of a hacker calling himself Guccifer 2.0 to disseminate and call attention to the files, although evidence that it was most likely a front for Russian intelligence was broadly discussed.Normally, the statute of limitations prevents prosecutors from charging people with a crime for actions that took place more than five years ago. However, a hacking provision cited in the indictment — intruding into a government computer to obtain national security secrets — has an eight-year limit. A grand jury returned the indictment of Mr. Assange on March 6, 2018, just before the eighth anniversary of the day that Mr. Assange is accused of entering into a conspiracy with Ms. Manning to violate that law.There is an oddity: As part of the USA Patriot Act after the Sept. 11 attacks, Congress added that provision to a list of crimes that get an eight-year limit under a separate law titled “extension of statute of limitation for certain terrorism offenses.” While Mr. Assange’s case involves national security, it is not about terrorism. The “terrorism” heading most likely makes no legal difference, however — just as prosecutors can use the words of the Espionage Act to charge leakers, not just spies.No. Mr. Assange is widely expected to fight extradition to the United States by arguing in British court that his prosecution is politically motivated. That fight and inevitable appeals could take years to play out.Eileen Sullivan contributed reporting.Follow Charlie Savage on Twitter: @charlie_savage.

Supported byBy Mark Mazzetti and Julian E. BarnesWASHINGTON — In June 2016, five months before the American presidential election, Julian Assange made a bold prediction during a little-noticed interview with a British television show.“WikiLeaks has a very big year ahead,” he said, just seconds after announcing that the website he founded would soon be publishing a cache of emails related to Hillary Clinton.He was right. But an indictment unsealed on Thursday charging Mr. Assange with conspiring to hack into a Pentagon computer in 2010 makes no mention of the central role that WikiLeaks played in the Russian campaign to undermine Mrs. Clinton’s presidential chances and help elect President Trump. It remains unclear whether the arrest of Mr. Assange will be a key to unlocking any of the lingering mysteries surrounding the Russians, the Trump campaign and the plot to hack an election.The Justice Department spent years examining whether Mr. Assange was working directly with the Russian government, but legal experts point out that what is known about his activities in 2016 — including publishing stolen emails — is not criminal, and therefore it would be difficult to bring charges against him related to the Russian interference campaign.Numerous significant questions are left unanswered, including what, if anything, Mr. Assange knew about the identity of Guccifer 2.0, a mysterious hacker who American intelligence and law enforcement officials have identified as a front for Russian military intelligence operatives.Court documents have revealed that it was Russian intelligence — using the Guccifer persona — that provided Mr. Assange thousands of emails hacked from the Democratic National Committee and the personal account of John D. Podesta, the chairman of the Clinton campaign.Another question is whether Mr. Assange was a conduit between the Russian hackers and the Trump campaign. Mr. Assange exchanged emails with Donald Trump Jr., Mr. Trump’s eldest son, during the campaign, and a Trump campaign official sent Roger J. Stone Jr., a longtime adviser to the president, to get information about the hacked Democratic emails, according to a January indictment by Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel.Mr. Mueller concluded his investigation without an indictment that directly connected WikiLeaks, the Russians and the Trump campaign, suggesting that prosecutors did not find sufficient evidence that Mr. Assange knowingly engaged in a conspiracy with Russia to help the Trump campaign.But the report drafted by Mr. Mueller’s team, and expected to be released next week, could have additional details about the ties between the Trump campaign and Mr. Assange. Those details could be redacted by the Justice Department, however, if officials believe the material includes classified intelligence, said Carrie Cordero, a former official with the Justice Department’s National Security Division and the Office of the Director of National Intelligence.“What was the actual interaction between Russian intelligence surrogates, WikiLeaks and Trump campaign surrogates?” she said. “That is a question that has not yet been answered.”On Thursday, congressional Democrats sent a letter to Attorney General William P. Barr again demanding that they be provided the full, unredacted report, along with underlying evidence.The special counsel also handed off his work to other prosecutors, including those who have long been examining Mr. Assange’s dealings with Guccifer, the Russian intelligence front.Many Democrats and Republicans remain convinced that Mr. Assange knowingly worked with Russian intelligence. On Thursday, Senator Richard M. Burr, the North Carolina Republican who is chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, said Mr. Assange and WikiLeaks “have effectively acted as an arm of the Russian intelligence services for years.” The committee’s Democratic vice chairman, Senator Mark Warner of Virginia, said Mr. Assange had become “a direct participant in Russian efforts to undermine the West.”Mr. Assange has long been a polarizing figure — hailed at the beginning of his career as champion for government transparency but also viewed by American national security officials as a disruptive force who conspired with Chelsea Manning, the former Army intelligence analyst, to publish hundreds of thousands of classified documents.But it was WikiLeaks’ publication of material stolen by Russian intelligence in 2016 that hardened the view of national security officials.In April 2017, in one of his first major speeches, Mike Pompeo — who was C.I.A. director at the time but months earlier, as a Republican congressman, had praised WikiLeaks for its releases that damaged the Clinton campaign — signaled that the government would take a hard line on WikiLeaks.Mr. Pompeo compared WikiLeaks to “a hostile intelligence service,” and said it sought support from anti-democratic countries as it targeted the United States with its disclosures.Mr. Pompeo’s public remarks coincided with a private push against Mr. Assange by the Trump administration. The C.I.A. intensified espionage efforts against WikiLeaks, seeking to learn more about his interactions with the Russian intelligence operatives.The timing of Mr. Assange’s actions fueled suspicions. His June 2016 interview announcing the impending release of Democratic emails came three days after a meeting at Trump Tower in New York between Russians and senior Trump campaign officials — a meeting set up on the promise that the Russians would have damaging information about Mrs. Clinton.Throughout the 2016 campaign, Mr. Assange played down accusations of Russian interference, and misled the public on his source for the damaging documents WikiLeaks released.He offered a $20,000 reward for information about the killing in Washington of Seth Rich, a young Democratic National Committee staff member shot to death in an apparent bungled street robbery. Some supporters of Mr. Trump suggested that it was Mr. Rich who had leaked the committee’s emails and that he had been killed in retaliation.During an August 2016 discussion with Dutch television about the sources of WikiLeaks’ information, Mr. Assange suddenly brought up Mr. Rich’s killing.“That was just a robbery, I believe, wasn’t it?” the interviewer said. “What are you suggesting?”“I’m suggesting that our sources take risks,” Mr. Assange said. He then declined to say if Mr. Rich was a source.

Supported byBy Sarah MervoshThe special counsel’s report confirmed this week that Seth Rich, a young Democratic National Committee employee whose unsolved killing became grist for a right-wing conspiracy theory, was not the source of thousands of internal D.N.C. emails that WikiLeaks released during the 2016 presidential race, officially debunking a notion that had persisted without support for years.Tucked amid hundreds of pages of the report’s main findings, the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, took aim at WikiLeaks and its founder, Julian Assange, for falsely implying that Mr. Rich was somehow involved in the dissemination of the emails, an act that aided President Trump’s campaign.“WikiLeaks and Assange made several public statements apparently designed to obscure the source of the materials that WikiLeaks was releasing,” according to the report, which showed that WikiLeaks corresponded with the true source of the leaked emails — Russian hackers — after Mr. Rich’s death.The confirmation comes after years of anguish for Mr. Rich’s family, who fought attempts to politicize and spread misinformation about his killing, which is believed to have happened during a bungled robbery attempt.The theory linking Mr. Rich to the email leak took root in conservative circles and was cited by prominent conservatives like Newt Gingrich and right-wing commentators like Rush Limbaugh, Sean Hannity and Alex Jones of Infowars. WikiLeaks offered a $20,000 reward for information about Mr. Rich’s killing, fueling speculation that he was the source. Fox News also published an article, which the network later retracted, suggesting that Mr. Rich was killed in retaliation for having leaked the emails.In a statement, Mr. Rich’s brother, Aaron Rich, responded to the special counsel’s report, saying it provided “hard facts that demonstrate this conspiracy is false.”“I hope that the people who pushed, fueled, spread, ran headlines, articles, interviews, talk and opinion shows, or in any way used my family’s tragedy to advance their political agendas — despite our pleas that what they were saying was not based on any facts — will take responsibility for the unimaginable pain they have caused us,” he said.Mr. Rich was 27 when he died after being shot on the streets of Washington on July 10, 2016.On July 14, WikiLeaks received an encrypted file from Russian hackers, according to the report. The organization published thousands of internal D.N.C. emails later that month, just days ahead of the Democratic convention.“That chronology is damning,” Mike Gottlieb, a lawyer for Aaron Rich, said, pointing out that Mr. Rich had already been killed when the file was sent.In statements beginning that summer, Mr. Assange and WikiLeaks “implied falsely” that Mr. Rich had been the source of the emails, the special counsel’s report said.In addition to the $20,000 reward, Mr. Assange said in an interview that he was interested in Mr. Rich’s death because “we’re very interested in anything that might be a threat to alleged WikiLeaks sources,” according to the report.Even after intelligence officials announced that Russia was behind the email hacking, Mr. Assange continued to deny Russian involvement and told a congressman that the D.N.C. hack was an “inside job,” according to the report.“Assange did untold damage to a grieving family in order to try and hide his work with Russian intelligence,” Brad Bauman, a former spokesman for Mr. Rich’s family, said in a statement after the release of the report.“He is a monster, not a journalist,” he added.Mr. Assange, whose release of secret government documents has spurred debate about press freedom issues, spent seven years holed up in the Ecuadorean Embassy in Britain before he was arrested this month on a charge of conspiring to hack into a Pentagon computer network in 2010. The charge is not related to WikiLeaks’ role in Russia’s operations to sabotage the election.Though Mr. Rich’s killing remains unsolved, the special counsel’s findings could begin to ease the pain for his family, who have described the anguish of having to watch his life and death be treated like a “political football.”His parents, Joel and Mary Rich, sued Fox News last year, claiming that the network’s coverage helped fuel damaging rumors about their son. A judge, while expressing sympathy for the family, dismissed the case because the parents had not been personally defamed by the story, despite the fact that it included “false statements or misrepresentations.” The judge noted that Mr. Rich could not be defamed by the story under New York law because he was dead.Aaron Rich is also suing for defamation over theories that falsely implicate him, purporting that he helped steal the data and cover up his brother’s killing. He accepted an apology and retraction from The Washington Times last year as part of a settlement.Mr. Gottlieb, his lawyer, said that while it was gratifying for his client to see the Mueller report lay to rest any lingering conspiracy theories, Mr. Rich was still grappling with the loss of his brother, who was the best man at his wedding.“The picture of Seth and Aaron at Aaron’s wedding is one a bunch of conspiracy theorists have used as memes,” he said.“Aaron has been called a traitor,” Mr. Gottlieb added. “He is being called every imaginable awful name you can think of and he’s never had the opportunity to grieve.”In his statement, Aaron Rich vowed to continue fighting.“We will continue to pursue justice for Seth’s murderers,” he said, “as well as those who used his murder to advance their personal or political agendas.”Follow Sarah Mervosh on Twitter: @smervosh.

Supported byBy Katie Benner and Scott ShaneWASHINGTON — The Justice Department continued to investigate WikiLeaks last year even after the secret indictment of its founder, Julian Assange, seeking to question at least two of the antisecrecy organization’s volunteers about their activities, according to interviews and a letter obtained by The New York Times.One day after prosecutors charged Mr. Assange with a single count of conspiracy to unlawfully hack into a computer, the Justice Department asked Daniel Domscheit-Berg, a former WikiLeaks activist, if it could question him about the possibility that he violated American laws prohibiting “the receipt and dissemination of secret information.” The language, in a letter to him in his native German, suggested that prosecutors had not, at least at that point, abandoned the possibility of charges based on WikiLeaks’ publication of United States government secrets.Prosecutors last summer also sought out David M. House, a former researcher at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who worked as a volunteer for WikiLeaks from 2009 to 2013.Mr. House spoke for about 90 minutes to prosecutors and also testified at length to the grand jury, according to a person who has spoken with prosecutors and agreed to an interview on the condition of anonymity. They pressed him for information about debates inside WikiLeaks over whether to redact from government documents posted online the names of vulnerable people, such as foreign citizens who worked confidentially with American military officers or diplomats, to protect them from harm.The communications with Mr. Berg and Mr. House show that even after Mr. Assange was indicted on accusations of computer hacking, the United States government was eager to build a case against a WikiLeaks associate for disseminating state secrets — a charge that spoke directly to the group’s main enterprise, but would also thrust the Justice Department into a thorny fight over First Amendment rights and galvanize supporters of WikiLeaks and of the free press.They also show that prosecutors were focused mainly on work done by WikiLeaks in 2010, when Mr. Assange received classified and secret information from Chelsea Manning, a former Army intelligence analyst, about the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and American diplomacy overseas.Mr. Assange worked with reporters at publications including The New York Times, The Guardian and the German magazine Der Spiegel to publish that information. Eric H. Holder Jr., then the attorney general, announced a criminal investigation of WikiLeaks.Justice Department officials under the Obama administration ultimately decided they could not prosecute Mr. Assange for sharing information because it risked setting a precedent that could erode press freedoms for news organizations that also publish classified information.But prosecutors in Northern Virginia continued to explore ways to crack down on WikiLeaks.The letter to Mr. Berg, dated March 7, 2018 — one day after Mr. Assange was secretly indicted — was sent by Tracy Doherty-McCormick, a cybercrime and national security specialist who worked on the Assange case while she was a federal prosecutor in Virginia under the Obama administration. She was also the acting United States attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia when Mr. Assange was indicted.Ms. Doherty-McCormick wrote that the interview would be voluntary, and it was unclear whether Mr. Berg ultimately spoke with prosecutors. The German publication Die Zeit first reported the case against Mr. Berg.A Justice Department spokesman declined to say whether the government had dropped its case against Mr. Berg or whether there were any sealed charges against him or any other WikiLeaks associates.In his interviews with prosecutors and the grand jury, Mr. House denied any role in the leak of the documents from Ms. Manning to WikiLeaks, the person said. Mr. House’s interview with prosecutors and grand jury testimony were reported earlier by  The Daily Beast and The Washington Post.He was asked about online chats among WikiLeaks workers that investigators had obtained and was questioned about discussions inside the group about when to redact names from documents posted on the internet.The question of redactions became a point of contention in 2010, after human rights groups criticized WikiLeaks for exposing the names of Afghan citizens who had assisted the United States and might be subject to retaliation. The group subsequently stripped names from many documents but remained inconsistent in its practices.It is unclear whether investigators were considering whether endangering people named in the government documents by posting them online might violate a criminal statute.Mr. Assange was ultimately accused of unsuccessfully helping Ms. Manning try to log onto a classified military network by breaking a passcode and using another person’s identity. He was charged with a single computer hacking offense.The indictment against Mr. Assange did not include any charge related to the receipt or publication of secret information, but he was accused of hacking into a government computer system “in furtherance of a criminal act” that violated laws against obtaining material to harm the United States or to aid a foreign power.Nor did the indictment mention the 2016 election or Mr. Assange’s decision to post to WikiLeaks troves of Democratic emails stolen by Russian government hackers.The special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, secured an indictment against 12 Russian military officers in the thefts, describing them as part of the Kremlin’s campaign to undermine the American electoral process and help Mr. Trump win the election. The Russians used online personas including Guccifer 2.0 to work with people and organizations in a position to spread the information, including WikiLeaks, according to the indictment.WikiLeaks’ publication of the stolen Democratic emails may have been omitted from Mr. Assange’s indictment in part because mention of the election could cast the Justice Department’s charges against Mr. Assange in a more political light, legal experts said, and harm the administration’s chances of extraditing him from Britain to stand trial in the United States.

Supported byBy David E. SangerWASHINGTON — Donald J. Trump ordered the man who would later serve briefly as his national security adviser, Michael T. Flynn, to find thousands of missing emails from Hillary Clinton’s computer server at the height of the 2016 presidential campaign, the special counsel’s report revealed on Thursday.The episode is among the closest that investigators came to uncovering an instance in which Mr. Trump himself appeared to use whatever means necessary to locate the messages, though it stops short of saying he encouraged a breach of his opponent’s computers, networks or email accounts. Mr. Trump had insisted at the time that he was only joking when he encouraged Russian hackers to find and disclose 30,000 deleted emails from Mrs. Clinton’s servers.Behind the scenes, Mr. Trump was serious, according to the report by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III. It said that Mr. Flynn, by then a retired three-star Army intelligence officer, told the investigators “that Trump made this request repeatedly, and Flynn subsequently contacted multiple people in an effort to obtain the emails.”As it turned out, Russia’s military intelligence unit and supporters of Mr. Trump’s campaign had — apparently independently — sought the email trove, convinced that it contained embarrassing material that could prove decisive on Election Day.Mrs. Clinton’s use of a private email server while she was secretary of state had been the focus of a lengthy investigation by the F.B.I., and Mr. Trump, calling his campaign opponent “Crooked Hillary,” was eager to turn attention to her actions.Moscow’s most intense efforts came just five hours after Mr. Trump first signaled his desire by declaring in Florida in July 2016, “Russia, if you’re listening, I hope you’re able to find the 30,000 emails that are missing.” Skilled Russian attackers working for two different military units of Russia’s G.R.U. intelligence agency — one called Unit 26165, another Unit 74455 — went to work on exactly that task. Mr. Mueller’s investigators never cracked the mystery of how they knew, within hours, which servers and accounts to try to breach.They failed. But Mr. Trump’s deputy campaign manager, Rick Gates, was so certain that the emails would soon be on the way that by late summer 2016, he was “planning a press strategy, a communications campaign and messaging based on the possible release of Clinton emails by WikiLeaks.”The picture of those and other hacking efforts that emerged from Mr. Mueller’s report is, not surprisingly, a complex mix of political desires in Moscow and New York, and a complex series of computer breaches that, at times, the Russians carried out with remarkable precision. Mr. Mueller concluded that “the Russian government interfered in the 2016 presidential election in sweeping and systematic fashion,” and for nearly 200 pages it lays out details of that effort.The findings from the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, are now available to the public. The redacted report details his two-year investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election.Because there will never be the equivalent of a 9/11 Commission report on perhaps the most famous and consequential state-sponsored attempt to hack an election, the report will stand as the final word on what happened, even if it does not address how to prevent future breaches.Meanwhile, a candidate who understood very little about how computers and networks operate was clamoring for the leak of data from Mrs. Clinton’s private server, the special counsel’s investigation found.Mr. Mueller found no evidence that Russians and the Trump campaign worked together, and that while the Russians easily infiltrated the Democratic National Committee and the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, they appeared to have a difficult time doing so with Mrs. Clinton’s own personal server.The account of those efforts may be the closest the nation comes to understanding the details of the largest cyberoperation ever initiated against an American election.Mr. Mueller found that Russian military intelligence units and Mr. Trump’s campaign found themselves working opposite ends of a mutually beneficial, but uncoordinated, effort. “Although the investigation established that the Russian government perceived it would benefit from a Trump presidency and worked to secure that outcome, and that the campaign expected it would benefit electorally from information stolen and released through Russian efforts,” the report concludes, there was no finding that any “member of the Trump campaign conspired or coordinated with the Russian government.”When Mr. Flynn received the request from Mr. Trump, he contacted Barbara Ledeen, a former Senate staff member close to the retired general, and Peter Smith, an investment adviser. The investigators concluded that as early as December 2015, long before the Russian hacking of the Democratic National Committee became known, Ms. Ledeen had sent a 25-page proposal to Mr. Smith about how to obtain what she believed were “classified emails” that had already been “purloined by our enemies.” The exchange was included in emails the special counsel obtained during the investigation.Ms. Ledeen urged a search of public sources, in hopes that some of the Clinton emails had been leaked by foreign intelligence services that she believed had perhaps already extracted them from Mrs. Clinton’s server in Chappaqua, N.Y. If that failed, she wanted to make contact with “various foreign services” to see if any of them had cracked the server.After initially turning down the idea, Mr. Smith eventually had a change of heart, the report states, after Mr. Trump’s requests in July 2016. Ms. Ledeen later contended she had found a trove of the emails on what she termed the “dark web” — referring to parts of the web that are not searchable, and that are often used for criminal activity. But it turned out that the trove was “not authentic,” the report says, prompting a more fevered search. Mr. Smith wrote in one message that “all 33k deleted emails” would be released by Nov. 1 on WikiLeaks, a week before the election. They never appeared.Mr. Trump continued to insist that Russia was unlikely to have been responsible for any of the hacking activity around the 2016 campaign. After meeting President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia for the first time in Hamburg, Germany, in 2017, Mr. Trump called a reporter and noted that Mr. Putin had denied being behind the breaches, quoting him as saying, “If we did, we wouldn’t have gotten caught, because we’re professionals.’’Mr. Trump said he believed that explanation, “because they are some of the best in the world.” Mr. Mueller’s report concluded that they were good but ultimately failed to cover their tracks.

Supported byBy Nicholas Casey and Jo BeckerThe secrets came directly from the phones of President Lenín Moreno of Ecuador: intimate pictures of him and his family on vacation, text messages from his wife, even a photograph of the president himself in a posh bedroom, eating a lobster in bed.The material, published last month on an anonymous website, was particularly embarrassing because Mr. Moreno was in a bruising national fight over his austerity measures. But rather than mount a defense, the president played the victim: He blamed WikiLeaks, whose founder, Julian Assange, had spent the last seven years holed up in the country’s London embassy.WikiLeaks’ actions were “despicable,” said the country’s vice president on television, vowing to take action. The group denied leaking the information, but on Thursday Ecuador made good on its threat — opening the door to British police officers who carted away Mr. Assange.With that, Mr. Assange’s long refuge inside the Ecuadorean Embassy finally came to an end, the capstone of an international cat-and-mouse game involving stolen document dumps, promises of more to come, failed efforts to contain him and accusations of blackmail.Even as Ecuador harbored Mr. Assange from international prosecution, he and WikiLeaks wielded the threat of releasing damaging information against the Ecuadorean government.In October 2016, as WikiLeaks was releasing thousands of emails hacked from the Democratic National Committee and the personal account of John D. Podesta, the chairman of the Clinton campaign, Ecuador restricted Mr. Assange’s access to the internet, citing his interference in a foreign election.The United States may have played a central role in the effort to corral Mr. Assange. On Oct. 14, with the emails upending the campaign and the election just weeks away, a confidante of the Clintons and a top aide to Secretary of State John Kerry showed up at a dinner party hosted by the Ecuadorean ambassador before a ball, lingering with him as other guests left, several attendees said.Mr. Assange’s internet was curtailed by the Ecuadorean Embassy the very next day.But WikiLeaks quickly retaliated, issuing a cryptic message that a leak against Ecuador was on its way. The tactic seemed to work. Two months later, Mr. Assange said in an interview that his internet had been restored.Mr. Assange has been hailed by many around the world as a champion of transparency and a casualty of his own success at revealing secrets.In Britain, the leader of the opposition Labour Party, Jeremy Corbyn, said this week that his country should oppose the extradition of Mr. Assange to the United States — where he faces a charge of conspiring to hack a Pentagon computer network in 2010 — because the WikiLeaks founder was being pursued for “exposing evidence of atrocities in Iraq and Afghanistan.”Diane Abbott, another Labour Party official, made the same assertion, arguing that Mr. Assange “is not being pursued to protect U.S. national security; he’s being pursued because he has exposed wrongdoing by U.S. administrations and their military forces.”But Ecuadorean officials contend that the expulsion comes from an extensive list of transgressions by Mr. Assange that soured their long — and often strained — relationship.In explaining his decision, Mr. Moreno accused Mr. Assange of installing electronic distortion equipment in the embassy, blocking security cameras, confronting and mistreating guards and gaining access to security files without permission.On Thursday, the government said it had also arrested a computer programmer in Ecuador in connection with the Assange case, contending that WikiLeaks had interfered in Ecuador’s domestic political affairs.WikiLeaks insisted it was not involved in the hack of Mr. Moreno’s phones, and that the Ecuadorean government was using the episode as a false pretext to toss out Mr. Assange.It was no secret that the United States wanted him removed. It was also clear that Mr. Moreno is eager for international loans and better relations with the United States after the tensions that festered under his leftist predecessor, who granted Mr. Assange shelter in the embassy.“I inherited this situation,” Mr. Moreno said in a video address this week.Fernando Cutz, a former senior adviser to H.R. McMaster, the former national security adviser, and a Latin America policy specialist at the White House, acknowledged that American officials regularly spoke with their Ecuadorean counterparts about handing over Mr. Assange.But Mr. Cutz argued that Ecuadorean officials did not simply cave to American demands. They wanted Mr. Assange gone as well, he said.“We would definitely raise it with Ecuador,” Mr. Cutz said. “It was a bilateral irritant, without a doubt. But I don’t think the U.S. pressure ended up being the reason for this move. Bettering relations with the U.S. was just the icing on the cake for Moreno. Assange was his own worst enemy.”Mr. Assange’s odyssey with Ecuador began in 2012, when he skipped a bail hearing to avoid being extradited to Sweden, where he was wanted for questioning in connection to accusations of “rape, sexual molestation and unlawful coercion.”Ecuador’s president at the time, Rafael Correa, had been criticized in his own country for a crackdown against the press. But in Mr. Assange, the Ecuadorean president found a symbol of his challenge to the United States, which he called an imperialist power. Mr. Assange was free to stay in the embassy as long as he pleased, Mr. Correa said.But by 2016, a change in power was afoot in both the United States and in Ecuador. Hillary Clinton, who had run the State Department during the enormous leak of information by WikiLeaks in 2010, was running for president. Mr. Assange also had reason to worry about the coming election in Ecuador, where his stay in the embassy was becoming a campaign issue as well.On Oct. 7, 2016, a tape was leaked showing Mrs. Clinton’s opponent, Donald J. Trump, boasting of sexually harassing women while filming a segment for the show “Access Hollywood,” sending Mr. Trump’s campaign into a major crisis.Less than an hour later, WikiLeaks began publishing the first of thousands of hacked emails from Mr. Podesta’s account, creating a different controversy in the Clinton camp.WikiLeaks continued to release the emails throughout October on a daily basis. American intelligence agents later concluded that the documents had been hacked by Russian operatives and laundered through WikiLeaks.When Ecuador restricted Mr. Assange’s internet access in response, Mr. Correa’s administration said that it had acted on its own accord, not because of pressure from the United States. A spokesman for Mr. Kerry also denied that the Obama administration played any role.But during the encounter on Oct. 14 — the night before Mr. Assange’s internet access was restricted — Patsy Thomasson, a veteran of the Clinton White House, and a senior aide to Mr. Kerry attended a dinner at the Ecuadorean Embassy hosted by Francisco Borja, the ambassador of Ecuador.Attendees interviewed said it struck them as odd that such high-powered players would decide to attend a party hosted by a small country’s ambassador. They noted that neither Ms. Thomasson nor the Kerry aide was dressed in black tie for the ball, and that both stayed behind with the ambassador after other guests left for the event.Ms. Thomasson, reached by phone, said she had been invited at the very last minute by someone whose wife couldn’t come, and that she did not recall having any conversations with the ambassador, “much less about Julian Assange.”WikiLeaks struck back soon after. On Oct. 16, the day after Mr. Assange’s internet was restricted, WikiLeaks tweeted a code, known in its parlance as an “insurance file,” and signaled that an upcoming leak involving Ecuador was imminent.According to former WikiLeaks insiders, Mr. Assange had damaging information about Ecuador and wasn’t bluffing.Mr. Assange certainly seemed to have acquired compromising material. In 2015, Cynthia Viteri, a prominent Ecuadorean politician, and Fernando Villavicencio, an Ecuadorean political journalist, had gotten secret documents showing that Ecuador was running a surveillance program, using an Italian company to spy on journalists and political enemies, in addition to spying on Mr. Assange at the embassy.Mr. Villavicencio said he sent the material to a WikiLeaks email address, hoping the organization would publish the information. He eventually published the documents himself. WikiLeaks never did, though it is clear from leaked 2015 chat group logs that Mr. Assange and his inner circle were aware of them.Mr. Villavicencio said he believed the documents he sent to WikiLeaks may have been among those that Mr. Assange had threatened to publish.“There was very valuable information, information of millions of dollars in expenses, tens of millions of dollars in contracts to foreign companies to do illegal hacking — and it surprised me it didn’t get out,” he said. “It was information of international and national interest.”Nothing ever came of the Ecuador-related “insurance file” WikiLeaks tweeted about in October 2016.“From 2011, WikiLeaks did not leak relevant information regarding Correa’s government,” Mr. Villavicencio said. “That certainly shows hypocrisy and a double standard, contradicting journalism principles.”The controversy was just the beginning of Mr. Assange’s difficulties. Mr. Moreno took over as president in May 2017 and soon broke with the policies of his predecessor.Advisers to Mr. Moreno met with Paul Manafort, who had served as President Trump’s campaign chairman, and raised the possibility of releasing Mr. Assange in exchange for concessions like debt relief. Mr. Moreno said repeatedly that Mr. Assange’s time in the embassy should not be forever.Then, Mr. Moreno’s government was hit by a familiar disruption: more leaks.In March, an anonymous website, INApapers.org, published around 200 private emails related to Mr. Moreno, text messages written by his wife and photos of the president and his family taking luxurious vacations in Europe.Mr. Moreno’s government was quick to blame the release on WikiLeaks, which it says Mr. Assange still controls.On Thursday, Mr. Moreno repeated the claim, telling Ecuadorean journalists that Mr. Assange didn’t have the right to “hack private accounts or phones.”Ed Wong contributed reporting from Washington, and Jose María León Cabrera from Warsaw.

Supported byHe deserves his fate, but it sets a dangerous precedent.By Michelle GoldbergOpinion ColumnistLast November, federal prosecutors accidentally revealed, in an unrelated court document, that a sealed indictment had been filed against WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange. Many people concerned with civil liberties, including some who despise Assange, were alarmed by the idea that he could be punished for his role in exposing American government secrets. “If Assange can be prosecuted merely for publishing leaked classified documents, every single media outlet is at risk of prosecution for doing the exact same thing,” the lawyer Bradley P. Moss wrote in The Atlantic.At the time, the public didn’t know what the actual charges were. Now that Assange has been dragged from the Ecuadorean Embassy in London, where he’s lived for almost seven years, and is facing extradition to the United States, we do. He’s been indicted for conspiracy to commit computer intrusion, a result of his alleged attempts nearly a decade ago to help former Army intelligence analyst Chelsea Manning crack a password to a government computer.These charges do not pose quite the threat to a free press that some feared, because hacking is not standard journalistic practice. “The indictment does not charge Assange for the act of publishing, which would have been a serious Rubicon crossed,” Ben Wizner, director of the American Civil Liberties Union’s project on speech, privacy and technology, told me. But, as Wizner emphasizes, that doesn’t mean we shouldn’t be worried about what Donald Trump’s Justice Department is up to. Elements of the Assange indictment could still set a dangerous precedent.[Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]I don’t say that out of any sympathy for Assange, an odious person who initially sought refuge in the embassy to dodge charges stemming from an alleged sexual assault in Sweden. In the 2016 election, Assange acted as a conduit for Russian intelligence services that had hacked emails from top Democrats. He helped spread the conspiracy theory that the leaked Democratic emails were actually released by Seth Rich, who worked for the Democratic National Committee and who was murdered in 2016. Surely Assange knew this wasn’t true. There is ample evidence of his misogyny and anti-Semitism. He might be known as an information anarchist, but by helping Trump become president, he became a handmaiden to authoritarianism.So Assange may well deserve to go to prison. What’s troubling, however, is that his indictment treats ordinary news gathering processes as elements of a criminal conspiracy.The Obama administration made a decision that it couldn’t prosecute Assange for disseminating classified information without threatening the First Amendment. “The problem the department has always had in investigating Julian Assange is there is no way to prosecute him for publishing information without the same theory being applied to journalists,” Matthew Miller, a former Justice Department spokesman, told The Washington Post in 2013.When Miller said that, the facts underlying the current hacking charge were already known. During Manning’s trial in 2011, military prosecutors revealed chat logs in which Manning asked Assange for help cracking the password. There was no indication, then or now, that Assange succeeded; the Assange indictment says only that the password “would have allowed” Manning to access government computers without entering her own user name.On Thursday, Miller told me there could be several reasons the Obama Justice Department didn’t pursue a hacking indictment. At the time, Ecuador was less willing to turn Assange over. “There’s no reason to bring a case against him when you can’t actually put your hands on him,” said Miller. And while he believes that the hacking charge is justified, he said, “This is not the world’s strongest case.”But the Justice Department’s desire to nail Assange for publishing information leaked by Manning never went away. Miller said that both former Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein wanted to take a new look at the case. It’s a relief that they found a way to make the case without a frontal assault on journalistic prerogatives. Still, if you read the indictment, a lot of things that journalists do routinely are part of Assange’s alleged crime.“It was part of the conspiracy that Assange and Manning took measures to conceal Manning as the source of the disclosure of classified records to WikiLeaks,” says the indictment. Most if not all investigative journalists take such measures to protect their sources. The indictment says, “It was part of the conspiracy that Assange encouraged Manning to provide information and records from departments and agencies of the United States.” Journalists often do this when they urge whistle-blowers to come forward. “It was part of the conspiracy that Assange and Manning used a special folder on a cloud drop box of WikiLeaks” to transmit classified information, the indictment continues. Like many news organizations, The New York Times does something similar, soliciting tips through an encrypted submission system called SecureDrop.For any of these actions to become part of a criminal conspiracy, there has to be a crime. But as Georgetown law professor David Super points out, “We have right now a criminal code that is bursting at the seams with offenses,” making it easy to break laws without realizing it.A prosecutor, then, might be able to find a pretext for a similar conspiracy case if, for example, someone decides to leak the Mueller report, or Trump’s tax returns. “This pattern of behavior has already been turned against journalists in many parts of the world,” Super said. Journalists “get prosecuted for pretty mundane stuff, some of which they probably did, but they wouldn’t have been charged for if they didn’t make the regime unhappy.”Assange seems to have thought that, by helping elect Trump, he would improve his own situation. As Julia Ioffe reported in The Atlantic, in 2016 WikiLeaks suggested to Donald Trump Jr. that Trump should lean on Australia to have Assange, an Australian citizen, appointed ambassador to the United States. Roger Stone, a Trump adviser who was indicted in part for lying about his communications with WikiLeaks, reportedly told an associate that he was trying to get Assange a pre-emptive presidential pardon. Now Assange has discovered, as so many others have before him, that betting on Trump can ruin your life. There’s a certain dark satisfaction in that. But any legal theory that Trump’s Justice Department uses against Assange can also be used against the rest of us.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Michelle Goldberg has been an Opinion columnist since 2017. She is the author of several books about politics, religion and women’s rights, and was part of a team that won a Pulitzer Prize for public service in 2018 for reporting on workplace sexual harassment issues.  @michelleinbklyn 

Supported byBy Michael WinesWASHINGTON — In the months before the 2016 presidential election, Russia’s military intelligence agency penetrated computer systems in at least one Florida county government and planted malware in systems at a manufacturer of election equipment, the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, said in his office’s final report on Russian interference in the election.The report did not cite any evidence that the breaches compromised election results in Florida or elsewhere, and said Mr. Mueller had left further investigation of the incidents to the F.B.I. and the Department of Homeland Security.The disclosure of the suspected breach added to accounts of Russia’s systematic effort to access voter-registration rolls and other election systems outlined last year by American intelligence officials and in federal indictments.The special counsel’s report also cited another attack on computers in Illinois, which had already been reported, while the attack in Florida had not previously been disclosed. The penetration of the election equipment manufacturer, identified elsewhere as VR Systems of Tallahassee, Fla., had been known — but not that malware specifically had been planted. The company makes electronic pollbooks and other devices that help officials run elections, but does not make voting machines.On Thursday, the Florida Department of State, which supervises elections, said that it had “no knowledge or evidence of any successful hacking attempt at the county level during the 2016 elections.” Officials said that upon learning about the information in the Mueller report, the state contacted the F.B.I. to learn more and the bureau declined to provide details of the county government breach mentioned in Mr. Mueller’s report.The state said that Homeland Security officials told it in 2017 that Russian attacks on its election systems were unsuccessful.“The Department maintains that the 2016 elections in Florida were not hacked,” the Florida Department of State said.Experts have traced Russian efforts to find vulnerabilities in election computer systems in dozens of states before the presidential election, and some now assume that every state was targeted at one time or another.Mr. Mueller’s report said that officers of the Russian military intelligence agency, commonly known as the G.R.U., targeted computers at state election boards, secretaries of state and county governments, as well as computers used by employees at those agencies.The report cited only three instances in which the officers actually gained access to computer systems. In the instance in Florida, the report stated, Russian officers sent more than 120 “spearphishing” emails to election officials in Florida counties in November 2016. “The F.B.I. believes that this operation enabled the G.R.U. to gain access to the network of at least one Florida county government,” the report stated.In Illinois, hackers infiltrated a voter registration database at the state’s elections board in June 2016 and, according to a federal indictment last year, downloaded personal details of roughly 500,000 voters before being detected.Both federal and state officials have previously said that Russian attacks on election systems did not succeed in altering any votes.In the third instance at the manufacturer of election equipment, the Mueller report states that G.R.U. agents planted malware in a company computer.In a statement on Thursday, the chief operating officer of VR Systems, Ben Martin, did not directly address the reported malware plant, saying only that details of the Russian spearphishing attempts had long been known. The company has since engaged private and federal experts to assess its security practices, the statement said.A National Security Agency report leaked in 2017 indicated that a Russian spearphishing attack probably compromised one employee’s computer, but offered few details.

Supported byBy Sharon LaFraniereWASHINGTON — In the deep leather chairs of Manhattan’s luxurious Grand Havana Room late on Aug. 2, 2016, Paul Manafort, the Trump campaign chairman, met with an associate who has been linked to Russian intelligence and discussed a plan to give Moscow control over part of eastern Ukraine.“All that is required to start the process is a very minor ‘wink’ (or a slight push)” from Donald J. Trump, the associate, Konstantin V. Kilimnik, later wrote to Mr. Manafort. If Mr. Manafort could succeed in pushing the plan forward and positioning himself to oversee it, he would be welcomed in Moscow “at the very top level,” Mr. Kilimnik wrote.Those exchanges are part of an extraordinary set of contacts between more than two dozen Russians and aides or associates of Mr. Trump’s documented in the report by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, that was released Thursday.In great detail, the report highlights a steady stream of overtures from a cast of Russians, including a mysterious woman pretending to be a niece of President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and Russian billionaires. Striving to forge inroads with and wield influence over the Trump team during the campaign and the transition, they dangled potential business deals, floated foreign policy options and repeatedly suggested a meeting between Mr. Trump and Mr. Putin.Some also offered the Russian government’s help to the Trump campaign, proposals that were a prime focus of Mr. Mueller’s inquiry. “In some instances, the campaign was receptive to the offer,” the report stated, “while in other instances the campaign officials shied away.”But even the campaign’s most eager consideration of the Kremlin’s assistance fell short of illegal conduct, prosecutors concluded, because no one conspired with the Russians to violate American laws.The parade of overtures from the Russians dovetailed with the Kremlin’s covert operation to sway the outcome of the 2016 presidential vote. Russian operatives used social media to divide American voters and undermine support for Hillary Clinton. They also publicized thousands of embarrassing emails that Russian hackers had stolen from the Clinton campaign and Democratic Party organizations.The report shows contacts beyond those previously known.For example, Petr Aven, the Russian head of Alfa-Bank, Russia’s largest commercial bank, told investigators that Mr. Putin regularly meets with about 50 Russian oligarchs at the Kremlin. In a late 2016 meeting, he said, Mr. Putin instructed him to reach out to the Trump administration about United States sanctions against Russia.Through an intermediary, Mr. Aven reached out to a Russian-born foreign policy specialist in Washington, Dimitri Simes, who had previously met with Jared Kushner, the president’s son-in-law, hoping to arrange a meeting to discuss “a high-level communications channel between Putin and the incoming administration,” the report states. The effort was called “Project A.”In a Dec. 22, 2016, email, the intermediary wrote Mr. Aven that “with so much intense interest in the Congress and the media over the question of cyber-hacking (and who ordered what), Project A was too explosive to discuss” at that time.The report also leaves questions about the interactions of some Trump aides with Russians, partly because some witnesses were uncooperative.The findings from the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, are now available to the public. The redacted report details his two-year investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election.Investigators learned, for example, that Mr. Manafort shared internal campaign polling data with Mr. Kilimnik, who prosecutors have repeatedly said is linked to Russian intelligence agencies. At Mr. Manafort’s instruction, Rick Gates, the deputy campaign chairman, repeatedly transferred data to Mr. Kilimnik, using an encrypted form of communication, beginning in spring 2016 and continuing even after Mr. Manafort was fired from the campaign in August.The report said that Mr. Gates understood Mr. Kilimnik would give the polling data to pro-Russian Ukrainian oligarchs who had previously hired Mr. Manafort, as well as to Oleg V. Deripaska, a Russian billionaire considered so close to the Kremlin that he is sometimes referred to as “Putin’s oligarch.” Mr. Deripaska has denied he ever received the polling data.At the Aug. 2, 2016, meeting with Mr. Kilimnik, Mr. Manafort outlined “the status of the Trump campaign and Manafort’s strategy for winning Democratic votes in Midwestern states,” the report stated. While investigators found no evidence that the polling data helped Russian operatives shape their election interference operations, the report said they could not “reliably determine Manafort’s purpose” in sharing the data. Nor could they figure out what, if anything, Mr. Kilimnik ultimately did with it.They also questioned Mr. Manafort’s denial that he never discussed Mr. Kilimnik’s plan to effectively cede part of eastern Ukraine to Russia with Trump campaign or administration officials, saying he had lied to them about the subject previously.Investigators were also unable to reconcile accounts of a one-on-one meeting on Dec. 13, 2016, between Mr. Kushner and Sergey Gorkov, the head of Vnesheconombank, a Russian government-owned bank then under American sanctions stemming from Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. Mr. Kushner told investigators that he and the Russian official discussed United States-Russia relations.But Mr. Gorkov said publicly that the meeting was business-related, and another witness told investigators that Mr. Gorkov was in New York to discuss “postelection issues with U.S. financial institutions.” At the time, Mr. Kushner’s family business was desperately seeking investors for its flagship property, a Manhattan skyscraper awash in debt.Mr. Gorkov requested a second meeting, but an aide to Mr. Kushner told investigators that he did not respond because of federal investigators’ interest in contacts between Russians and people in Mr. Trump’s orbit.Investigators also failed to get to the bottom of a June 2016 Moscow trip by Carter Page, a Trump campaign foreign policy adviser. Mr. Page sent an email to another campaign official saying that he had met with Arkady Dvorkovich, a Russian deputy prime minister, who had “expressed strong support for Mr. Trump.” But “Page’s activities in Russia — as described in his emails with the campaign — were not fully explained,” the report said.Investigators focused heavily on the Trump campaign’s efforts to learn about WikiLeaks’ plans to release the emails that the Russians hacked from Mrs. Clinton’s campaign and the Democratic Party.Mr. Gates, the former campaign deputy, told prosecutors that by late summer 2016, the Trump campaign had incorporated the possible release of hacked emails into its political strategy. En route to La Guardia Airport that summer, the report stated, “Candidate Trump told Gates that more releases of damaging information would be forthcoming.”Although that paragraph is partly redacted, other accounts suggest that Mr. Trump had learned that from Roger J. Stone Jr., a former campaign adviser who was in contact with the Russian hackers. Mr. Stone is now awaiting trial on charges of lying about his efforts to reach Julian Assange, the founder of WikiLeaks, and trying to influence the congressional testimony of a witness with ties to Mr. Assange.Even if it fell short of a crime, Mary McCord, who headed the Justice Department’s national security division from 2016 to 2017, said the Trump campaign’s willingness to profit from stolen documents was remarkable.“There is no way you could come away from this report without recognizing that there was a high level of interest and encouragement by people associated with the campaign in Russia continuing with its interference activities, particularly in the release of emails,” she said.Maggie Haberman contributed reporting.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.

Supported byBy Richard Pérez-PeñaLONDON — With the arrest in London of the WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange, and the news of a criminal case against him in the United States, anyone expecting him to appear in an American courtroom should be warned: Extraditing him will not be quick, and it will not be easy.The American authorities made a preliminary extradition request on Thursday, soon after Mr. Assange was jailed for jumping bail, but that was just the first in a long series of legal filings, hearings, appeals and administrative decisions. And in the end, experts say, the result is far from certain.The process is mostly up to the courts, but politicians will have a hand in it, too, and were already drawing battle lines over Mr. Assange. Complicating matters, prosecutors in Sweden could reopen a rape investigation involving Mr. Assange and request extradition to that country, forcing the British government to decide which case would take precedence.“It’s not simple, and the defense will argue everything they can,” said Rebecca Niblock, a partner at the British law firm Kingsley Napley who specializes in extradition law. “I think it is going to be a long one. I’d say minimum a year and a half, but if things get complicated, it could be much longer.”Jeremy Corbyn, the leader of Britain’s opposition Labour Party, wrote on Thursday on Twitter, “The extradition of Julian Assange to the U.S. for exposing evidence of atrocities in Iraq and Afghanistan should be opposed by the British government.”The Conservative Party government has avoided taking a position, while signaling that it takes a much less favorable view of Mr. Assange — and sees in him a potent political issue.Sajid Javid, who as home secretary has a role in the process, said in Parliament on Thursday that he “won’t be drawn into the request for extradition” or discuss “the details of the accusations against Mr. Assange, either in the U.K.’s criminal justice system, or in the U.S.”Diane Abbott, Mr. Javid’s Labour counterpart, said, “Julian Assange is not being pursued to protect U.S. national security; he’s being pursued because he has exposed wrongdoing by U.S. administrations and their military forces.”The partisan divide raises the prospect that a change of government could change Mr. Assange’s fortunes, because his case could take years to end. Britain’s next scheduled general election would be in 2022, and there is widespread speculation that Prime Minister Theresa May might call early elections.For years, Mr. Assange has been simultaneously hailed as a hero for transparency, and cursed as a reckless anarchist and publicity-seeker. In 2016, WikiLeaks published stolen Democratic Party emails, damaging the presidential campaign of Hillary Clinton.Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel who investigated Russian interference in that election, reported in court documents that Russian intelligence was the source of those emails, which Mr. Assange has denied.But Mr. Assange has been in the sights of American officials since 2010, when WikiLeaks published an immense trove of classified material, primarily about the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, taken from military computer systems by Chelsea Manning, an analyst in Army intelligence. Ms. Manning was convicted of espionage and sentenced to 35 years in prison, and spent nearly seven years in prison before her punishment was commuted by President Barack Obama.WikiLeaks and its defenders argue that it was following a standard practice of news organizations, publishing information of public interest, even if the person who supplied the information obtained it illegally.The case is about the “publishing of documents, of videos of killing of innocent civilians, exposure of war crimes,” Kristinn Hrafnsson, a WikiLeaks editor, told a news conference on Thursday. “This is journalism.”But the indictment unsealed on Thursday alleges that Mr. Assange, a native of Australia, went further, conspiring with Ms. Manning, then known as Bradley Manning, to help her hack into the military network.Mr. Assange’s defenders, including a number of human rights activists, contend that the case against him is not about hacking, but about releasing information that embarrassed the United States.For extradition to proceed under British law, the United States must submit a full extradition request, and Britain’s home secretary must certify that it is legally valid and send it to the courts — all by mid-June, Mr. Javid said. Then the matter goes to an extradition hearing before a judge, whose rulings can be appealed all the way up to Britain’s Supreme Court.Two recent, high-profile cases could point the way for Mr. Assange’s defense. The American authorities sought the extradition of Lauri Love, a British man charged with hacking into dozens of United States government computer systems, and Stuart Scott, a banker charged with currency manipulation.In each case, a judge ruled against the defendant but the decision was overturned on appeal, partly on the grounds that the alleged illegal acts occurred in Britain, which meant any prosecution should take place in Britain.If the courts uphold extradition, it is up to the home secretary to actually order it. The law gives the home secretary some leeway to defy the ruling and refuse extradition, though not much.In another hacking case, the United States sought to prosecute Gary McKinnon, who was accused of gaining unauthorized access to dozens of government computers, in search, he said, of information about U.F.O.s.After a decade of legal battles, the British courts ultimately decided against him. But in 2012, the home secretary at the time, Mrs. May, refused to order extradition based on Mr. McKinnon’s mental health and the risk that he might commit suicide.Since then, court decisions have narrowed the range of discretion available, but the courts could take Mr. Assange’s condition into account, said Ms. Niblock, the extradition lawyer.“His physical and mental health have undoubtedly deteriorated over the past seven years,” she added.In 2010, Swedish prosecutors ordered the arrest of Mr. Assange, who was living in Britain, to be questioned about allegations of sexual misconduct and rape in Sweden. While free on bail, he fought extradition to Sweden — which he said would turn him over to the United States — until he exhausted his appeals in 2012. Mr. Assange has denied the allegations against him.Rather than submit to extradition, he took refuge in the Ecuadorean Embassy in London, and the country granted him asylum. British prosecutors charged him with violating the terms of his bail.In 2017, Swedish prosecutors set aside the rape case and the extradition request, saying that the effort was moot with Mr. Assange in the embassy.On Thursday, Ecuador’s government withdrew his asylum status after almost seven years, and allowed British police to enter the embassy and arrest him. He was swiftly convicted on the bail charge, for which he could be sentenced to up to a year in prison.The next day, the Swedish Prosecution Authority said it was looking into the possibility of reopening its case against him.

Supported byThe government charged Julian Assange, founder of WikiLeaks, not with publishing classified government information, but with stealing it, skirting — for now — critical First Amendment questions.By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.The arrest in London of the WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange ends one bizarre saga, but opens a legal drama that is likely to stretch over many years and could probe uncharted areas of press freedoms and national security in the United States in the digital era. There is good reason to be watchful as the case unfolds.Mr. Assange, a 47-year-old Australian, had spent almost seven years holed up in the Ecuadorean Embassy, initially to avoid arrest by Swedish authorities in a sexual assault investigation that has since been dropped, then British charges of skipping bail. But extradition to the United States was what Mr. Assange really feared, and what the cat-and-mouse game was always about.It was in the United States that the materials posted on WikiLeaks created the greatest furor, first through the publication of a trove of classified documents supplied by an Army private, Chelsea Manning, and then by releasing material stolen from the computers of Hillary Clinton’s campaign.The Obama administration was wary of pursuing Mr. Assange because WikiLeaks was essentially involved in investigative work common to a free press. But the Trump administration saw Mr. Assange and WikiLeaks as targets as soon as it took office. (Mr. Trump loved WikiLeaks in 2016 when it was embarrassing top officials of the Clinton campaign.) Two years ago, as director of the C.I.A., Mike Pompeo labeled WikiLeaks “a nonstate hostile intelligence service” after it released a cache of C.I.A. hacking tools. Efforts got underway then to build a case against Mr. Assange. This was confirmed through an inadvertent mention in a federal court filing last November.Mr. Assange, meanwhile, managed to exhaust his welcome at the Ecuadorean Embassy, and on Thursday British police officers unceremoniously bundled the scraggly-bearded refugee off in a van. Soon after, Scotland Yard acknowledged that it was also acting on an American extradition warrant, after which a federal indictment was unsealed in the United States charging Mr. Assange with conspiring to hack a government computer.The single charge is straightforward: It alleges that Mr. Assange helped the Army private break into a government computer in 2010 to steal classified and sensitive documents. According to the indictment, when Ms. Manning told Mr. Assange that she had no more material to send him, he replied, “Curious eyes never run dry in my experience.” Ms. Manning served almost seven years of a 35-year sentence for the leak, and is now back in jail for refusing to testify before a grand jury investigating WikiLeaks.The still-unproven charge is far less contentious than had it been, as widely anticipated, for espionage-related crimes. That would have been a direct challenge to the distinction between a journalist exposing abuse of power through leaked materials — something traditional newspapers like The Times do all the time — and a foreign agent seeking to undermine the security of the United States through theft or subterfuge.These questions will arise in any event — starting with the extradition hearings, at which Mr. Assange’s lawyers are likely to argue that the American charges are politically motivated. And if Britain does extradite him, there is no certainty that the Trump administration, with its combative stance toward the press and its documented recent antipathy for Mr. Assange, will not throw more charges at him.The issues WikiLeaks raises are vitally important. The responsibilities, ethics and rules of journalism are fast changing in an era when terabytes of secret data can be dumped in a flash, and when hostile governments like Russia’s can burrow into foreign computers for compromising information and then launder it through other channels.The case of Mr. Assange, who got his start as a computer hacker, illuminates the conflict of freedom and harm in the new technologies, and could help draw a sharp line between legitimate journalism and dangerous cybercrime. Once in the United States, moreover, he could become a useful source on how Russia orchestrated its attacks on the Clinton campaign.The administration has begun well by charging Mr. Assange with an indisputable crime. But there is always a risk with this administration — one that labels the free press as “the enemy of the people” — that the prosecution of Mr. Assange could become an assault on the First Amendment and whistle-blowers.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.An earlier version of this editorial said that Julian Assange sought refuge in the Ecuadorean Embassy to avoid arrest on sex charges in Sweden that have since been dropped. Mr. Assange was never formally charged in that investigation.

Supported byA running list of some of the best writing on the intersection of technology and privacy. By The New York Times“How Companies Learn Your Secrets,” Charles Duhigg, The New York Times Magazine — The story of how Target learned that a teenager was pregnant before her parents did, reporting in great detail about how retailers collect data about their customers.“Los Angeles Accuses Weather Channel App of Covertly Mining User Data,” Jennifer Valentino-DeVries, Natasha Singer, The New York Times —  A report on how the Weather Channel app used tracking data not just for local forecasts but also for commercial purposes.“How Facebook Figures Out Everyone You’ve Ever Met,” Kashmir Hill, Gizmodo — A look at the ways Facebook uses contact information harvested from phone address books to make inferences about users’ social graphs.“Online Tracking: A 1-Million-Site Measurement and Analysis,” Steven Englehardt and Arvind Narayanan, Princeton University — This academic paper discusses the mechanics of online tracking through “fingerprinting.” For a more digestible format, see the FiveThirtyEight interview and the Boing Boing blurb.“Your Apps Know Where You Were Last Night, and They’re Not Keeping It Secret,” Jennifer Valentino-DeVries, Natasha Singer, Michael H. Keller and Aaron Krolik, The New York Times — As smartphones have become ubiquitous and technology more accurate, an industry of snooping on people’s daily habits has spread and grown more intrusive. Data reviewed by The Times shows over 235 million locations captured from more than 1.2 million unique devices over three days in 2017.“From Headline to Photograph, a Fake News Masterpiece," Scott Shane, The New York Times; “We Tracked Down a Fake-News Creator in the Suburbs. Here’s What We Learned,” Laura Sydell, National Public Radio’s “All Things Considered” —  These two articles provide numbers for how profitable online advertising can be for fake news purveyors, with the reporters chasing down the people who do it for profit.“As Domestic Abuse Goes Digital, Shelters Turn to Counter-Surveillance With Tor," George LeVines, Beta Boston — Digital surveillance as domestic abuse is becoming increasingly common. Some technological tools can mitigate it.“Breaking the Black Box,” Julia Angwin, Terry Parris Jr. and Surya Mattu, ProPublica — This four-part series looks at what Facebook knows about users, price discrimination online, and the effects of machine learning and artificial intelligence.“I Gave a Bounty Hunter $300. Then He Located Our Phone,” Joseph Cox, Motherboard — T-Mobile, AT&amp;T and Sprint sold access to their customers’ location data, allowing third parties to track down phone users at will.“What Happens When You Dare Expert Hackers to Hack You,” Kevin Roose, Fusion — A hacker specializing in social engineering gains access to Mr. Roose’s account with his cellphone provider and even gets customer support to change his password.“Miss a Payment? Good Luck Moving That Car,” Michael Corkery and Jessica Silvera-Greenberg, The New York Times — Cars secured with subprime loans are sometimes equipped with GPS and remote kill switches that allow lenders to locate and turn off cars when lessees fall behind on payments.“Machine Bias,” Julia Angwin, Jeff Larson, Suryu Mattu and Lauren Kirchner, ProPublica — An investigation into criminal-sentencing algorithms, an important glimpse into the macro harms of a data-driven society.“How Trump Consultants Exploited the Facebook Data of Millions,” Matthew Rosenberg, Nicholas Confessore and Carole Cadwalladr, The New York Times; “‘I Made Steve Bannon’s Psychological Warfare Tool’: Meet the Data War Whistle-Blower,” Carole Cadwalladr, The Guardian — How Facebook data was misappropriated by a third party without the knowledge of Facebook users and used to influence elections.“These Academics Spent the Last Year Testing Whether Your Phone Is Listening to You," Kashmir Hill, Gizmodo — A deep dive into a smartphone conspiracy theory that just won’t go away.“Privacy in Context: Technology, Policy, and the Integrity of Social Life,” Helen Nissenbaum — A theoretical work with a solid grounding in the realities of modern technology that provides a good overview of the debates around what the right to privacy is. “A right to privacy is neither a right to secrecy nor a right to control but a right to appropriate flow of personal information,” Ms. Nissenbaum writes.“The House That Spied on Me,” Kashmir Hill and Surya Mattu, Gizmodo — The writers set up a smart home to see how gadgets are collecting information on us. “The Fight Between the F.B.I. and Apple Is About Setting Precedent, Not Breaking Tech,” Sheera Frankel, BuzzFeed News — A look into Apple's fight against the F.B.I. and the future of tech companies’ compliance with government orders.“Early Notes on the Ashley Madison Hack,” John Herrman, The Awl — This article lays out the stakes of huge data breaches of personal information and the “impossibility of perfect privacy.”“The Data That Turned the World Upside Down,” Hannes Grassegger and Mikael Krogerus, Motherboard — The first big report on Cambridge Analytica, dissecting the particulars of psychographic profiling and its influence in elections.“The U.S. Government Will Be Scanning Your Face at 20 Top Airports, Documents Show,” Davey Alba, BuzzFeed News — How the Trump administration's push for border security and a “biometric entry-exit system” may usher in a new era of expansive facial recognition.“Yahoo Secretly Scanned Customer Emails for U.S. Intelligence — Sources," Joseph Menn, Reuters — How a major tech company complied with a classified government demand to invade user privacy.“Facebook Lets Advertisers Exclude Users by Race,” Julia Angwin and Terry Parris Jr., ProPublica — Using Facebook's own advertising tools to lay bare the ways in which tech platforms and their algorithms discriminate. “This Ad Fraud Scheme Stole Millions, but Almost No One Wants to Own Up to It,” Craig Silverman, BuzzFeed News — One ad industry critic: “Nobody knows how bad it is and nobody wants to know.”“Facebook, Instagram and Twitter Provided Data Access for a Surveillance Product Marketed to Target Activists of Color,” American Civil Liberties Union — A report detailing police surveillance of activists using raw feeds of social network data.“This Spyware Data Leak Is So Bad We Can't Even Tell You About It,” Lorenzo Franceschi-Bicchierai, Motherboard — Shedding light on the ethics of reporting on data leaks or breaches when the companies themselves seem unable or unwilling to fix them.Follow @privacyproject on Twitter and The New York Times Opinion Section on Facebook and Instagram.

Supported byBy Scott Shane and Steven ErlangerThe shaky video clips of Julian Assange’s arrest flashed around the world on Thursday, the white-bearded prophet of the age of leaks being hauled by unsmiling security officers to a gray van marked Police.“We must resist!” he cried. “You can resist!” It was a scene that the very image-conscious Mr. Assange might appreciate: one man literally fighting the all-powerful state.It was also the latest — and surely not the last — dramatic turn in a career marked by both brilliant achievement and dubious judgment. Mr. Assange has long had a knack for celebrity, and as a tech-savvy, global, almost stateless figure, he captured the new influence the internet could give to individual citizens.transcriptHosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Rachel Quester, Jessica Cheung, Jonathan Wolfe and Luke Vander Ploeg, and edited by Lisa TobinWe spoke with a New York Times reporter who collaborated with WikiLeaks about the ethical dilemmas involved in doing so.michael barbaroFrom The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today: First, he was seen as a hero of the free speech movement. Increasingly, he came to be seen as a threat to national security. Then, he helped Russia interfere in a U.S. election. Now, he’s been arrested. Scott Shane on the moral complexities of Julian Assange. It’s Monday, April 15. Scott, tell us what happened in London on Thursday.scott shaneSo, a large squad of police showed up at the embassy of Ecuador, where Julian Assange has been holed up for seven years, not leaving the building. And the Ecuadorian authorities got a little sick of him. He would skateboard, and they complained about his skateboarding — the noise, the damage he was doing to the building.michael barbaroHe would skateboard inside the embassy?scott shaneI mean, the guy was there for seven years. He couldn’t go outside. He would play with a soccer ball and throw it and kick it against the wall. And they got tired of that. A security guard came to take the soccer ball away, accused him of not taking care of his cat, not taking care of his bathroom. So, it was almost like a bad scene in a college dorm, I think.archived recordingWe’ve got breaking news for you — I have to tell you, the pictures are shocking from London today, where Julian Assange’s long standoff with international authorities is finally over.scott shaneFinally, the Ecuadorian authorities had made the decision to evict him. And there, the British police authorities were there, waiting to accept the body, so to speak. And he resisted, so they carried him out.archived recording (speaker 1)Oh, my God, look at him.archived recording (speaker 2)Look at him.archived recording (speaker 1)The beard. I have not seen him looking like that — clearly not being taken willingly. He’s being dragged.scott shaneAnd he was quite disheveled — white beard.archived recordingLook at how many people it’s taking to take him down. He’s not going willingly. He looks like Rip Van Winkle.scott shaneAnd he was yelling —archived recording (julian assange)We must resist. You can resist.scott shane— we can resist, we must resist. You can resist. And they sort of shoveled him into a gray police van.archived recording 1Julian Assange now faces a single U.S. federal conspiracy charge related to one of the largest-ever leaks of government secrets. The U.S. is seeking to extradite him, but Assange is vowing to fight it.scott shaneSo, you had this scene, which, in some ways, is quite appropriate, of Julian Assange, the founder of WikiLeaks, against the world, against the powerful state, taking his stand and trying to rally his troops.michael barbaroAnd Scott, what’s the significance of this moment?scott shaneWell, this was the end of a 10-year global saga that involved the U.S., the U.K., Ecuador, Sweden, Russia — everybody with their own particular interest in Julian Assange and WikiLeaks. And I hesitate to say it’s the end, but it’s at least a milestone in the very colorful career of Julian Assange. WikiLeaks had been founded by Julian Assange, this former hacker from Australia, in 2006.archived recording (julian assange)So these are, as far as we can tell, classical whistleblowers. And we have a number of ways for them to get information to us.scott shaneThey would collect whistleblower documents — various kinds of secret documents — and put them up on the web for everybody to see.archived recording (julian assange)We get information in the mail, vet it like a regular news organization, release it to the public, and then defend ourselves against —scott shaneBut they hadn’t really made much of a splash. No one had really heard of them, they hadn’t gotten much media attention, until 2010, when they got the mother lode, essentially, delivered to them by Chelsea Manning — then known as Bradley Manning — this bored Army private, low-level intelligence analyst in Iraq. And they were extremely happy to hear from her and to handle her documents.michael barbaroAnd where were you in this moment?scott shaneSo, I was in the Times Washington bureau. And a team of us were sort of on the receiving end of this giant document dump from WikiLeaks. There were, first, the War Logs, which were sort of on-the-ground, secret reports from the troops and about the troops in Afghanistan and Iraq. And then there were a quarter million confidential diplomatic cables — essentially, the letters that diplomats send back from embassies around the world to the State Department in Washington and the instructions from the State Department out to the field. And no one had seen anything like this many confidential military and diplomatic documents before.michael barbaroWell, tell me how you’re thinking about what Assange is doing here by releasing so many secretive diplomatic documents and the role that you, as a journalist, are playing in that?scott shaneI think you feel very ambivalent about a guy like Assange. He’s somewhere on the boundary between a source and a kind of journalistic collaborator. What was different about this was usually your source is a government official, and they kind of know the rules of the game, and you know the rules of the game, and they know the risk they’re running, and so on. Now, we’re dealing with somebody who is not only not a government official, but a very freewheeling, sort of ideologically-driven, fairly eccentric character. Julian Assange had pronounced this theory, I guess you’d call it, that the powerful were hoarding information and keeping it from the people.archived recording (julian assange)Information that organizations are spending economic effort into concealing. That’s a really good signal that when the information gets out, there’s a hope of it doing some good.scott shaneAnd he wanted to set it free.archived recording (julian assange)The goal is justice, the method is transparency. It’s important not to confuse the goal and the method.scott shaneSo he was inclined in a maybe, you know, oversimplified way to just throw everything out there, versus a more traditional journalistic approach — which is, first of all, we don’t want to actually get people killed by just putting up confidential documents. We were trying to do editing and pick and choose and be careful in what we put out there and be selective — and also try to make sense of it. So it was a complicated relationship on both sides. But I think that tension has been present in the relationship between WikiLeaks and traditional journalism, conventional journalism, since its founding.michael barbaroAnd what was the response from the U.S. government once they learned that you had these diplomatic cables — that WikiLeaks had dumped all of these documents on you?scott shaneWell, I literally called over to the White House and said, we have a quarter million confidential cables, and we plan to publish a lot of them and to write a lot of stories about them.michael barbaroAnd somebody peeled themself off the ground at the White House.scott shaneI think they had some inkling that something was afoot. They said, we’ll get back to you. They summoned us to the State Department at about 8 p.m., and we were led to this big room where there was, basically, a murderers’ row of senior officials from a bunch of agencies — the Defense Department, the C.I.A. — and the initial message was, you are in possession of stolen goods. We expect you to return the stolen goods — these cables — and not to write anything about them. And there was a sort of tense exchange in which Dean Baquet, who was speaking for us, made it clear, politely but firmly, that we intended to write about these things. And the meeting concluded with the idea that we would tell them which cables we intended to publish. As I recall, it was around 5:00 p.m. every day, there’d be a conference call between us and a bunch of State Department officials. And we would have identified, say, 10 cables about Afghanistan that we intended to publish. And they would have their Afghan experts on the line, and we would go through the cables. And they would say in some cases, we have no problem with number three, but there are three names we’d like you to take out of cable six. In some cases, we would discover that we’d already decided to redact those names, because it was clear that people might be endangered if we published the name. But then there were also a class of requests that, essentially, were clearly coming out of a sense of anguish at the State Department. They would say, if you publish this, it’s going to really, really upset a lot of people in the country. They’re going to be extremely angry at our diplomats. It will strain relations. And in almost all of those cases, we said, look, we’re sympathetic, but we can’t withhold something based on that, and we’re going to go ahead. So, there was a whole range of decisions. And we published it. It got a lot of attention.archived recording 1Well, this isn’t a Wiki-leak, this is a Wiki-torrent.archived recording 2WikiLeaks had help with this week’s disclosures from three of the most prominent brands in journalism.archived recording 3The New York Times, The Guardian here in Britain, and, in Germany, Der Spiegel, the weekly.archived recording 4The documents revealed previously unreported killings of Afghan citizens and U.S. fears that some Pakistani officials were cooperating with the Taliban.archived recording 5WikiLeaks has released more secret documents to The New York Times, Washington Post and NPR.archived recording 6They say it shows the extent of U.S. spying on allies and the U.N.archived recording 7The newest documents released detail extensive computer hacking operations originating in China. Why were Chinese leaders so obsessed with the web? Because, according to the cables, they were Googling themselves and unhappy with the criticisms they found.archived recording 8And here’s some of the latest revelations. China appears to be losing patience with its longtime ally, North Korea. Senior figures in Beijing even described the regime as behaving like a spoiled child. And one U.S. diplomat says that China is genuinely rattled by North Korea’s nuclear missile test.archived recording 9WikiLeaks documents made public in the past 24 hours once again are embarrassing to America. They show that U.S. officials aren’t convinced Pakistan is a reliable ally, and that nuclear material from a Pakistani reactor may end up in the hands of terrorists.archived recording 10The latest secret U.S. diplomatic correspondence unearthed by WikiLeaks reveals Afghan and American criticism of British forces in 2008.archived recording 11Meanwhile, new classified documents released by WikiLeaks reveal that TV shows like “Desperate Housewives” are helping fight extremism abroad.archived recording 12Good evening, it has happened again, and this time, it’s the Russians. In this new batch splashed across the web and on front pages in Great Britain and here in the U.S., there are allegations the Russians are running a mob state. Someone has compared Russian leaders Putin and Medvedev to Batman and Robin. And Putin comes under sharp attack as a macho character, oddly disengaged and, at times, working from home.scott shaneBut after this elaborate redaction process that WikiLeaks had participated in, Julian Assange got in a dispute with a Guardian editor, and the outcome was that Assange decided to put up all the cables — all 250,000 — on the web, unredacted and unedited.michael barbaroWow. After all those discussions and deliberations about protecting people?scott shaneYeah.archived recording 1Reckless and dangerous — that’s how the White House is describing WikiLeaks’s release of thousands of classified State Department diplomatic documents.archived recording 2Listen to this statement by the press secretary for the White House and see the vehemence and the worry that’s included in that: “By releasing stolen and classified documents, WikiLeaks has put at risk not only the cause of human rights, but also the lives and works of these individuals.”scott shaneWell, one of the things that happened at the State Department was they convened a sort of emergency task force and sent out word to their embassies and to the people who wrote the cables, in some cases, saying, hey, some of your confidential contacts in your country may be in trouble. In some cases, they said, we will help you leave your country if you think your life would be in danger. So they did a lot of warnings, a lot of assistance with people moving around the world and trying to make themselves and their families safe. Meanwhile, the Justice Department is thinking very hard about, is there a crime here?archived recording (eric holder)Let me condemn in the strongest terms the leaks of information that have come.scott shaneEric Holder, the attorney general at the time, actually announced that —archived recording (eric holder)We have a very serious, active, ongoing investigation that is criminal in nature.scott shane— they had opened a criminal investigation of WikiLeaks and the people around it.archived recording (eric holder)I personally authorized a number of things last week, and I think that’s an indication of the seriousness with which we take this matter and the highest-level involvement in the United States Department of Justice.scott shaneSo the question was, were they going to sort of cross the Rubicon here and try to find a way to treat WikiLeaks not as a journalistic organization, but as some kind of enemy intelligence organization, and prosecute? Chelsea Manning got 35 years in prison. So Julian Assange is sort of the middleman between the person who goes to prison and us, the reporters who are writing these stories. And so, in a way, he could be lumped by the government with Chelsea Manning and other leakers who may be violating the law. Or he can be lumped with us as sort of journalistic collaborators. After a whole lot of work and a whole lot of hand-wringing and contemplation, the Obama administration decided that prosecuting WikiLeaks would be, essentially, a bridge too far. It would be a danger to freedom of the press and sort of come up against the First Amendment in this country. And the decision under Obama was made — no, they were not going to do that.michael barbaroSo if the U.S. government decides to treat Assange as a journalist and kind of out of the reach of repercussions for these giant leaks, how do we end up where we are right now?scott shaneWell, Assange has a complicated life.archived recordingThe tables — well, they’ve turned on the founder of WikiLeaks. Julian Assange says he has been the victim of a leak. A British newspaper published details of a Swedish police report.scott shaneTwo women in Sweden approached the authorities with complaints about Julian Assange’s sexual conduct with them.archived recordingProsecutors want to question the Australian computer hacker about rape and sexual molestation allegations made by two WikiLeak volunteers.scott shaneThere are no charges, but the Swedish investigators want to interview Julian Assange. So Assange at this point believes that — not without reason — that the U.S. may end up charging him. He’s fearful that if he makes himself available to the Swedish authorities, that Uncle Sam will be sort of lingering in the back room. The Swedes will extradite him to the U.S., and he’ll face God knows what. So, he approaches the Ecuadorian authorities, seeks sanctuary in Ecuador’s little embassy in London — probably not expecting to spend the next seven years there, but that’s what happens.michael barbaroGot it. And then, of course —archived recordingBreaking tonight — as Dems gather in Philadelphia this coming week, a shocking new email dump of D.N.C. emails threatens to cast a shadow over their convention.michael barbaro— 2016 happens.scott shane2016 happens.archived recording 1WikiLeaks posting thousands of leaked emails between top Democratic Party officials, some of which suggest the D.N.C. favored Hillary Clinton.archived recording 219,000 emails posted by WikiLeaks show D.N.C. officials apparently scoffing at Sanders and his supporters and, in one instance, questioning his commitment to his Jewish religion.scott shaneAnd I think a lot of people who were cheering Julian Assange on when he was making public secret documents from the Iraq War suddenly found themselves with very mixed feelings.archived recording (nancy pelosi)This is a Watergate-like electronic break-in. And anyone who would exploit for the purpose of embarrassment or something like that is an accomplice to that.scott shaneIt was somewhat clear from the beginning, though not explicit, that this was the result of Russian hacking. Russia has many reasons for opposing Hillary Clinton, so they get in touch with WikiLeaks. But there is another factor that comes into play.archived recording (julian assange)The American liberal press, in falling over themselves to defend Hillary Clinton, are erecting a demon that is going to put nooses around everyone’s necks as soon as she wins the election, which she is almost certainly going to do.scott shaneAssange has it in for Hillary Clinton as well.michael barbaroWhy?scott shaneBecause Clinton had, not surprisingly, as secretary of state, she sort of was the leading voice in denouncing WikiLeaks for making available these 250,000 diplomatic cables. Those were her diplomats who were put in this very difficult situation.archived recording (hillary clinton)There is nothing laudable about endangering innocent people, and there is nothing brave about sabotaging the peaceful relations between nations on which our common security depends.scott shaneAnd now she’s running for president, and Assange, through Twitter, makes it very clear that he is going to do what he can to damage Clinton’s campaign.michael barbaroSo this starts to feel more like Putin and Assange having a similar goal here. And that’s quite different than what had happened with WikiLeaks and its role in the past.scott shaneAbsolutely. I think the Russians are sort of driving the car here. But I think it’s probably Assange who’s making these decisions to dump, three days before the Democratic Convention opens, 20,000 emails from inside the D.N.C. I mean, totally disruptive.michael barbaroAnd does this change how we treat the documents that he’s helping disseminate about the Democrats?scott shaneWell, one thing that I think the Russians and WikiLeaks understood — Julian Assange certainly understood — was that in the middle of a heated, hotly contested U.S. presidential campaign, if you give reporters catnip, which is to say, inside documents, the reporters are not going to say, geez, it would be unfair for us to use these, because we don’t have the equivalent from the other side. No, they’re going to write about them. And we at The New York Times wrote about them, everybody wrote about them.michael barbaroI wrote about them, I should acknowledge.scott shaneYou wrote about them. I mean, hundreds and hundreds of stories — and one of the most eager readers was, of course, Donald Trump.archived recording (donald trump)Hillary had no defense for her secret speeches to Wall Street and international banks that she hid from the public, and which were exposed by WikiLeaks.michael barbaroRight, and there’s this sort of fascinating dynamic that emerges during this period where Donald Trump, this nationalist Republican candidate for president, ends up going before these giant crowds celebrating this kind of anarchic figure of Julian Assange and saying that he loves his anarchic website, WikiLeaks.scott shaneExactly.archived recording (donald trump)WikiLeaks. I love WikiLeaks.scott shaneI love WikiLeaks. He said it again and again and again and again.archived recording (donald trump)We love WikiLeaks. Boy, they have really — WikiLeaks.scott shaneTalk about an odd couple, but, hey, Julian Assange was helping him in this campaign, and that was enough for Donald Trump, at least at that time.michael barbaroSo, again, Scott, I have to ask — if we were in a moment where Trump was saying, I love Julian Assange, if those leaks may have literally helped Trump get elected, how do we get to this moment where the U.S., under a Trump administration, is charging Assange with a crime?scott shaneI think we don’t know all of the details of the answer, but the basic facts are that Julian Assange was helping out Donald Trump on the campaign trail, but the campaign was over. And one thing that probably made a big difference was that in March 2017, WikiLeaks put up a large collection of extremely sensitive, highly classified documents related to C.I.A.‘s hacking program. So this infuriated people at the C.I.A. And Mike Pompeo, who was then-C.I.A. director, said publicly —archived recording (mike pompeo)As long as they make a splash, they care nothing about the lives they put at risk or the damage they cause to national security. WikiLeaks walks like a hostile intelligence service and talks like a hostile intelligence service.scott shane— that he considered WikiLeaks to be a non-state, hostile intelligence organization. And we began to get rumors that the Justice Department was again considering the possibility of some kind of prosecution.michael barbaroAnd how does the U.S. get around the journalism question this time? The fact that we have decided as a country that he is a journalist?scott shaneWell, what they do is they do an end-run around the journalism question. They find evidence, which the Obama administration Justice Department had looked at as well, that shows, at least according to the indictment, that Chelsea Manning had, essentially, asked Julian Assange for his expertise in trying to crack a password that would give her access to this big database of secret documents and would also have the effect of blurring her responsibility for the leak. It would sort of cover her tracks a little bit. And so they decide that they can interpret this as a conspiracy to commit, essentially, hacking. And they can make this into a crime.michael barbaroHmm.scott shaneAnd that breaks a law that has nothing to do with journalism, so we can charge you with this and avoid the whole uncomfortable question of are we violating the First Amendment? And the question is, is this computer intrusion charge, this conspiracy charge, really just a fig leaf for the U.S. government punishing Julian Assange and WikiLeaks for publishing material that the government didn’t want published? He can go to trial, and we’ll see if they have the evidence to prove him guilty.michael barbaroSo, Scott, what should we make of this journey over the past 10 years when it comes to Julian Assange? He has gone from this sort of internationally almost revered figure, a kind of freedom fighter, to this disheveled guy being dragged out of the embassy in London, someone who is very happy to work with the Russian government and pick sides in a U.S. election. So what are you thinking about with this arrest, having been along intimately for the entire ride?scott shaneWell, I think he’s a contradictory figure. He was sort of the right guy to see the potential of the internet for empowering the individual who felt previously, perhaps, powerless to do anything. All of a sudden, here’s WikiLeaks. I can get in touch with WikiLeaks. I have access to these documents, and they can air these crimes. They can right these wrongs. There was a journalistic imperative there, and we, certainly, at The New York Times recognized it in collaborating with WikiLeaks, which now is a global brand name. I think whistleblowers are going to continue to bring it material. It will probably continue to shed light on some very important topics. Whether Assange will still be involved from his, presumably, jail cell or not remains to be seen. But at the same time, he’s a problematic figure, to say the least. He’s just such a flawed figure at this point, but that doesn’t mean that the work he’s done is easily dismissed.michael barbaroThank you, Scott.scott shaneThanks, Mike.michael barbaroWe’ll be right back.[music]michael barbaroHere’s what else you need to know today.archived recording (donald trump)California certainly is always saying, oh, we want more people. And they want more people in their sanctuary cities — well, we’ll give them more people. We can give them a lot. We can give them an unlimited supply.michael barbaroOn Sunday, the Trump administration said it was considering a plan to send detained migrants to sanctuary cities on the East and West Coast as a form of retaliation against the president’s critics.archived recordingIs the president serious? Does he really intend to shift thousands of immigrants all across the country to cities like New York and San Francisco and a lot of other places?michael barbaroIn an interview with Fox News Sunday, White House press secretary Sarah Sanders said that the plan would force Democratically controlled cities to confront the impact of undocumented immigration on the same scale as towns near the Mexican border.archived recording (sarah sanders)And we have to look at all options across the table so that the towns right there on the border aren’t taking on the entire burden and that we’re shifting some of that burden to places who constantly claim to want to have open borders and want to have an open city. So, let’s put some of those people into their communities and into their towns and see if they are O.K., then, with that same impact.michael barbaroThe legality of the plan is unclear, and it has already triggered objections from inside the Trump administration.archived recordingTake a look at some of the objections that D.H.S. raised. They said, Congress has approved no specific money for this purpose. ICE says it would be, quote, “an unnecessary operational burden.” Sending them to sanctuary cities, which don’t cooperate with federal enforcement of immigration laws, would make it harder to round them up later. And it also might be an incentive to more illegal immigration. I guess the question is, how do you overcome all of those problems?archived recording (sarah sanders)Again, nobody thinks that this is the ideal solution. But until we can fix the crisis at the border, we have to look at all options. This is one of them.michael barbaroThat’s it for “The Daily.” I’m Michael Barbaro. See you tomorrow.[Read more about the arrest of Julian Assange.]His creation of WikiLeaks helped empower a generation of whistle-blowers and disgruntled insiders who could operate on an industrial scale, providing disclosures by the terabyte and enraging the powerful in many countries. WikiLeaks collaborated closely with major world publications, including The New York Times, in the release of secret records on the American-led wars in Afghanistan and Iraq and a quarter-million confidential State Department cables.But Mr. Assange has always elicited fervent reactions: He has been hailed as a hero of free information, or despised as a treacherous criminal worthy of death by drone — often depending on what WikiLeaks had recently been up to. Though he has always described himself as a journalist, he has been far too much of an activist to be satisfied with the role of neutral and fair-minded provider of information.He has proved a highly problematic, even embarrassing champion for the principles of press freedom and the public’s right to information, especially in recent years. For the past seven, he was hiding out at Ecuador’s tiny redbrick embassy in London, not just from American prosecutors, but also from Swedish sex-crime investigators, who eventually closed their case.Mr. Assange, the world’s most famous self-proclaimed political refugee, lived there with his cat in a small corner room. He continued to run WikiLeaks, conducted news conferences before hundreds of fawning admirers from a balcony, rode his skateboard in the halls and played host to a parade of visitors, including Lady Gaga and Pamela Anderson, a rumored lover who brought with her vegan sandwiches.The arrest came at the end of a meandering legal path that began in 2010, when the Justice Department announced it was investigating WikiLeaks. Obama administration officials eventually dropped the idea, persuaded by press advocates that prosecuting WikiLeaks would set a dangerous precedent because many mainstream news organizations regularly publish classified information.In 2016, some of Mr. Assange’s former American sympathizers turned sharply against him after he made WikiLeaks into an enthusiastic instrument of Russia’s intervention in the American presidential election, doling out hacked Democratic emails to maximize their political effect, campaigning against Hillary Clinton on Twitter and promoting a false cover story about the source of the leaks.That performance drew voluble praise from her opponent, Donald J. Trump, who regularly read from leaked Clinton campaign emails in his 2016 stump speeches and declared, “I love WikiLeaks.” But months later, while he was president, WikiLeaks posted a collection of classified documents on the C.I.A.’s hacking tools, and Mr. Trump’s first C.I.A. chief, Mike Pompeo, called Mr. Assange “a narcissist” and labeled the organization “a nonstate hostile intelligence service.”His words were a harbinger of the single charge of conspiracy to commit computer intrusion against Mr. Assange that the Justice Department unsealed on Thursday.In some ways, Mr. Assange, 47, has never fully shed the rebellious, secretive ways of the precocious Australian teenager with a complicated family background who, with two pals, formed a hacking collective called the International Subversives. In the 1997 book “Underground,” a lengthy account of the young hackers written by Suelette Dreyfus and crediting Mr. Assange as “researcher,” a hacker with the nickname Mendax clearly resembles the young Julian.Mendax found the small Australian town where Mr. Assange lived with his mother, Emerald, “dead boring,” the book says. “Sometimes Mendax went to school. Often he didn’t. The school system didn’t hold much interest for him.” A vulnerable computer network in Sydney, the book says, “was a far more interesting place to muck around in than the rural high school.”In 1991, at age 20, Mr. Assange was charged with a long list of hacking offenses, to which he pleaded guilty and got off with a fine and a warning. “There is just no evidence that there was anything other than sort of intelligent inquisitiveness and the pleasure of being able to — what’s the expression — surf through these various computers,” the judge said at his sentencing, according to an account in The New Yorker.“Underground” hints at a kind of qualified idealism, suggesting that Mendax and his comrades mostly shunned theft and vandalism in favor of disclosure. The book describes “the early Australian underground’s golden rules of hacking: Don’t damage computer systems you break into (including crashing them); don’t change the information in those systems (except for altering logs to cover your tracks); and share information.”By 2006, when he founded WikiLeaks, Mr. Assange had adopted a nomadic lifestyle, roaming the world and pronouncing sometimes cryptic principles about secrecy and information. By 2008, he was living in East Africa and exposing corruption in Kenya on the new site, which had published more than one million documents, including some from the Iraq war and the Guantánamo prison, as well as a potpourri covering less momentous topics: an early script for an Indiana Jones movie, Wesley Snipes’s tax bill and documents from the Church of Scientology and the Mormon Church.But it was Chelsea Manning, then a low-level intelligence analyst stationed at a base in Iraq, who really put WikiLeaks, and hence Mr. Assange, on the map. Bored and harboring doubts about the war and American foreign policy, she began copying thousands of documents from a classified network onto CDs that she marked as Lady Gaga songs to avoid detection.Back in the United States, she called both The New York Times and The Washington Post before connecting with WikiLeaks, where Mr. Assange and his fractious band of activist volunteers eagerly took up the cause in 2010.They first posted a devastating video of two American helicopter gunships in Iraq shooting at suspected enemies on the ground — two of whom were among those killed and turned out to be war correspondents for Reuters. The news organization had struggled to learn the details of the strike; now the world saw not just the view from the helicopters, but it heard the pilots’ casual exchanges as they opened fire three times.Military officials accused WikiLeaks of leaving out crucial context, including the presence on the ground of several rocket-propelled grenades and other weapons in the group that was targeted. WikiLeaks called the video “Collateral Murder,” an illustration of Mr. Assange’s skill at spin.That was followed by publication, in coordination with The Times and other mainstream news organizations, of 77,000 military documents from the war in Afghanistan and then 392,000 from the war in Iraq.The War Logs, as they were called, were published in coordination with Le Monde, The Guardian and Der Spiegel, and they shed new light on civilian casualties, soldiers’ morale, the treatment of detainees and the use of contractors. An editor’s note explained that they provided “a real-time history of the war,” but also struck an ambivalent chord about their source, WikiLeaks, which the note said “was not involved in the news organizations’ research, reporting, analysis and writing.”Human rights groups complained that WikiLeaks’ own publication of unredacted documents might put in danger Afghans who were named as working with the United States military, and the Iraq documents were stripped of names. When the diplomatic cables were published, The Times and other news organizations worked closely with WikiLeaks to redact names to protect vulnerable people — but later, in a dispute with a British editor, Mr. Assange decided simply to publish the massive cable collection without any edits.Meanwhile, WikiLeaks was plagued with infighting, often touched off by Mr. Assange’s astringent style and ego. Two women complained to Swedish authorities about Mr. Assange’s sexual conduct with them, setting off a yearslong quest of investigators to question him. Angry American politicians denounced Mr. Assange, whose distinctive face had become recognizable worldwide, and called for his arrest or even his execution.In 2012, Ecuador’s foreign minister announced that Mr. Assange was at the embassy in London and had asked for political asylum. Small as they were, Mr. Assange’s living quarters at the embassy did not cramp his desire to remain in the limelight. He pronounced his opinions on Twitter, briefly hosted a talk show on the Russian television channel RT and continued to oversee the publication of leaked material and even sent an associate to assist Edward Snowden, a former National Security Agency contractor, when he flew to Russia from Hong Kong — even though WikiLeaks had not played a role in Mr. Snowden’s leak of agency documents.Mr. Assange had an office equipped with a bed, sunlamp, phone, computer, kitchenette, shower, treadmill and bookshelves. Vaughan Smith, a longtime supporter of Mr. Assange who helped put up his bail money, said that “Julian’s a big bloke, with big bones, and he fills the room physically and intellectually.”“It’s a tiny embassy with a tiny balcony,” Mr. Smith added. “Small, hot and with not great air flow, and it must be jolly difficult for everyone there.”But Mr. Assange held court for admirers and famous curiosity seekers, among them the soccer star Eric Cantona and Nigel Farage, the pro-Brexit radio host and former head of the U.K. Independence Party.Eventually, Mr. Assange’s isolation began to wear on him, a friend said on Thursday, especially the long, lonely weekends in an essentially empty embassy that he could not leave.He was becoming deeply depressed and wondered about simply walking out, the friend said, speaking on the condition of anonymity. And relations with his hosts were becoming deeply strained, even adversarial, as diplomats grew tired of his behavior. Even Mr. Assange’s friends have described him as difficult, a narcissist with an outsize view of his importance and little interest in mundane matters like personal hygiene.A copy of a 2014 letter from Juan Falconí Puig, then Ecuador’s ambassador to Britain, to the Foreign Ministry, seen by The Times, complained of Mr. Assange’s penchant for riding a skateboard and playing soccer with visitors. His skateboarding, Mr. Falconí said, had “damaged floors, walls and doors.” When a security guard tried to take his soccer ball, Mr. Assange “began to shake, insult and push the agent,” reclaimed the ball and then “launched the ball at his body,” the letter said.Mr. Assange’s presence in the embassy long after the Ecuadorean president who granted him political asylum had been replaced finally became too much for the government in Quito. Last year, it severed his internet access and limited his visitors.On Thursday, President Lenín Moreno, elected in 2017, explained on Twitter and in a video the decision to evict him.“In a sovereign decision Ecuador withdrew the asylum status to Julian Assange after his repeated violations to international conventions and daily-life protocols,” he said.Mr. Moreno accused Mr. Assange of having installed forbidden “electronic and distortion equipment,” accessing the embassy’s security files without permission, blocking the embassy’s security cameras and mistreating its personnel, including guards.Appearing in the Westminster Magistrates’ Court, his silver hair tied in a bun, Mr. Assange looked composed in a navy suit. The scene underscored the obvious: that Mr. Assange will use his legal predicament as a new platform for his defiance of authority and his crusade for WikiLeaks.Outside the courthouse, a flock of cameras were pointing toward the guarded entrance, and a group of protesters chanted feebly: “Free, free, free Assange.”After Mr. Assange took his seat in court, a supporter wearing a scruffy fluorescent jacket gave him a thumbs-up from the public gallery. Mr. Assange returned the gesture.Waiting for the lawyers to enter, Mr. Assange read from a book, which he raised for the news media to see: “History of the National Security State,” by Gore Vidal.Reporting was contributed by Nicholas Casey, Palko Karasz, Iliana Magra and José María León Cabrera.

Supported byAttorney General William P. Barr addressed journalists on Thursday ahead of the release of a redacted version of the report by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III.The following are Mr. Barr’s prepared remarks, as released by the Justice Department.[Follow our live briefing for major updates and analysis throughout the day.]_____________ATTORNEY GENERAL WILLIAM P. BARR: Good Morning. Thank you all for being here today.On March 22, 2019, Special Counsel Robert Mueller concluded his investigation of matters related to Russian attempts to interfere in the 2016 presidential election and submitted his confidential report to me pursuant to Department of Justice regulations.As I said during my Senate confirmation hearing and since, I am committed to ensuring the greatest possible degree of transparency concerning the Special Counsel’s investigation, consistent with the law.At 11:00 this morning, I will transmit copies of a public version of the Special Counsel’s report to the Chairmen and Ranking Members of the House and Senate Judiciary Committees. The Department of Justice will also make the report available to the American public by posting it on the Department’s website after it has been delivered to Congress.I would like to offer a few comments today on the report.But before I do that, I want to thank Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein for joining me here today and for his assistance and counsel throughout this process. Rod has served the Department of Justice for many years with dedication and distinction, and it has been a great privilege and pleasure to work with him since my confirmation. He had well-deserved plans to step back from public service that I interrupted by asking him to help in my transition. Rod has been an invaluable partner, and I am grateful that he was willing to help me and has been able to see the Special Counsel’s investigation to its conclusion. Thank you, Rod.I would also like to thank Special Counsel Mueller for his service and the thoroughness of his investigation, particularly his work exposing the nature of Russia’s attempts to interfere in our electoral process.As you know, one of the primary purposes of the Special Counsel’s investigation was to determine whether members of the presidential campaign of Donald J. Trump, or any individuals associated with that campaign, conspired or coordinated with the Russian government to interfere in the 2016 election. Volume I of the Special Counsel’s report describes the results of that investigation. As you will see, the Special Counsel’s report states that his “investigation did not establish that members of the Trump Campaign conspired or coordinated with the Russian government in its election interference activities.”I am sure that all Americans share my concerns about the efforts of the Russian government to interfere in our presidential election. As the Special Counsel’s report makes clear, the Russian government sought to interfere in our election. But thanks to the Special Counsel’s thorough investigation, we now know that the Russian operatives who perpetrated these schemes did not have the cooperation of President Trump or the Trump campaign – or the knowing assistance of any other Americans for that matter. That is something that all Americans can and should be grateful to have confirmed.The Special Counsel’s report outlines two main efforts by the Russian government to influence the 2016 election:First, the report details efforts by the Internet Research Agency, a Russian company with close ties to the Russian government, to sow social discord among American voters through disinformation and social media operations. Following a thorough investigation of this disinformation campaign, the Special Counsel brought charges in federal court against several Russian nationals and entities for their respective roles in this scheme. Those charges remain pending, and the individual defendants remain at large.But the Special Counsel found no evidence that any Americans – including anyone associated with the Trump campaign – conspired or coordinated with the Russian government or the IRA in carrying out this illegal scheme. Indeed, as the report states, “[t]he investigation did not identify evidence that any U.S. persons knowingly or intentionally coordinated with the IRA’s interference operation.” Put another way, the Special Counsel found no “collusion” by any Americans in the IRA’s illegal activity.Second, the report details efforts by Russian military officials associated with the GRU to hack into computers and steal documents and emails from individuals affiliated with the Democratic Party and the presidential campaign of Hillary Rodham Clinton for the purpose of eventually publicizing those emails. Obtaining such unauthorized access into computers is a federal crime. Following a thorough investigation of these hacking operations, the Special Counsel brought charges in federal court against several Russian military officers for their respective roles in these illegal hacking activities. Those charges are still pending and the defendants remain at large.But again, the Special Counsel’s report did not find any evidence that members of the Trump campaign or anyone associated with the campaign conspired or coordinated with the Russian government in its hacking operations. In other words, there was no evidence of Trump campaign “collusion” with the Russian government’s hacking.The Special Counsel’s investigation also examined Russian efforts to publish stolen emails and documents on the internet. The Special Counsel found that, after the GRU disseminated some of the stolen materials through its own controlled entities, DCLeaks and Guccifer 2.0, the GRU transferred some of the stolen materials to Wikileaks for publication. Wikileaks then made a series of document dumps. The Special Counsel also investigated whether any member or affiliate of the Trump campaign encouraged or otherwise played a role in these dissemination efforts. Under applicable law, publication of these types of materials would not be criminal unless the publisher also participated in the underlying hacking conspiracy. Here too, the Special Counsel’s report did not find that any person associated with the Trump campaign illegally participated in the dissemination of the materials.Finally, the Special Counsel investigated a number of “links” or “contacts” between Trump Campaign officials and individuals connected with the Russian government during the 2016 presidential campaign. After reviewing those contacts, the Special Counsel did not find any conspiracy to violate U.S. law involving Russia-linked persons and any persons associated with the Trump campaign.So that is the bottom line. After nearly two years of investigation, thousands of subpoenas, and hundreds of warrants and witness interviews, the Special Counsel confirmed that the Russian government sponsored efforts to illegally interfere with the 2016 presidential election but did not find that the Trump campaign or other Americans colluded in those schemes.After finding no underlying collusion with Russia, the Special Counsel’s report goes on to consider whether certain actions of the President could amount to obstruction of the Special Counsel’s investigation. As I addressed in my March 24th letter, the Special Counsel did not make a traditional prosecutorial judgment regarding this allegation. Instead, the report recounts ten episodes involving the President and discusses potential legal theories for connecting these actions to elements of an obstruction offense.After carefully reviewing the facts and legal theories outlined in the report, and in consultation with the Office of Legal Counsel and other Department lawyers, the Deputy Attorney General and I concluded that the evidence developed by the Special Counsel is not sufficient to establish that the President committed an obstruction-of-justice offense.Although the Deputy Attorney General and I disagreed with some of the Special Counsel’s legal theories and felt that some of the episodes examined did not amount to obstruction as a matter of law, we did not rely solely on that in making our decision. Instead, we accepted the Special Counsel’s legal framework for purposes of our analysis and evaluated the evidence as presented by the Special Counsel in reaching our conclusion.In assessing the President’s actions discussed in the report, it is important to bear in mind the context. President Trump faced an unprecedented situation. As he entered into office, and sought to perform his responsibilities as President, federal agents and prosecutors were scrutinizing his conduct before and after taking office, and the conduct of some of his associates. At the same time, there was relentless speculation in the news media about the President’s personal culpability. Yet, as he said from the beginning, there was in fact no collusion. And as the Special Counsel’s report acknowledges, there is substantial evidence to show that the President was frustrated and angered by a sincere belief that the investigation was undermining his presidency, propelled by his political opponents, and fueled by illegal leaks. Nonetheless, the White House fully cooperated with the Special Counsel’s investigation, providing unfettered access to campaign and White House documents, directing senior aides to testify freely, and asserting no privilege claims. And at the same time, the President took no act that in fact deprived the Special Counsel of the documents and witnesses necessary to complete his investigation. Apart from whether the acts were obstructive, this evidence of non-corrupt motives weighs heavily against any allegation that the President had a corrupt intent to obstruct the investigation.Now, before I take questions, I want to address a few aspects of the process for producing the public report that I am releasing today. As I said several times, the report contains limited redactions relating to four categories of information. To ensure as much transparency as possible, these redactions have been clearly labelled and color-coded so that readers can tell which redactions correspond to which categories.As you will see, most of the redactions were compelled by the need to prevent harm to ongoing matters and to comply with court orders prohibiting the public disclosure of information bearing upon ongoing investigations and criminal cases, such as the IRA case and the Roger Stone case.These redactions were applied by Department of Justice attorneys working closely together with attorneys from the Special Counsel’s Office, as well as with the intelligence community, and prosecutors who are handling ongoing cases. The redactions are their work product.Consistent with long-standing Executive Branch practice, the decision whether to assert Executive privilege over any portion of the report rested with the President of the United States. Because the White House voluntarily cooperated with the Special Counsel’s investigation, significant portions of the report contain material over which the President could have asserted privilege. And he would have been well within his rights to do so. Following my March 29th letter, the Office of the White House Counsel requested the opportunity to review the redacted version of the report in order to advise the President on the potential invocation of privilege, which is consistent with long-standing practice. Following that review, the President confirmed that, in the interests of transparency and full disclosure to the American people, he would not assert privilege over the Special Counsel’s report. Accordingly, the public report I am releasing today contains redactions only for the four categories that I previously outlined, and no material has been redacted based on executive privilege.In addition, earlier this week, the President’s personal counsel requested and were given the opportunity to read a final version of the redacted report before it was publicly released. That request was consistent with the practice followed under the Ethics in Government Act, which permitted individuals named in a report prepared by an Independent Counsel the opportunity to read the report before publication. The President’s personal lawyers were not permitted to make, and did not request, any redactions.In addition to making the redacted report public, we are also committed to working with Congress to accommodate their legitimate oversight interests with respect to the Special Counsel’s investigation. We have been consulting with Chairman Graham and Chairman Nadler throughout this process, and we will continue to do so.Given the limited nature of the redactions, I believe that the publicly released report will allow every American to understand the results of the Special Counsel’s investigation. Nevertheless, in an effort to accommodate congressional requests, we will make available to a bipartisan group of leaders from several Congressional committees a version of the report with all redactions removed except those relating to grand-jury information. Thus, these members of Congress will be able to see all of the redacted material for themselves – with the limited exception of that which, by law, cannot be shared.I believe that this accommodation, together with my upcoming testimony before the Senate and House Judiciary Committees, will satisfy any need Congress has for information regarding the Special Counsel’s investigation.Once again, I would like to thank you all for being here today. I now have a few minutes for questions.

Supported bylettersA reader supports efforts to expose corruption, but objects to WikiLeaks’s methods. To the Editor:Re “Britain Arrests Assange, Ending 7-Year Standoff” (front page, April 12):The arrest of Julian Assange, the founder of WikiLeaks, should give all of us pause to re-examine our feelings regarding his self-described career as a journalist.Though I do support most efforts to expose corruption, my concern with Mr. Assange is that he usually fails to use filters, as most respected journalists would. He has always seemed more interested in owning the headlines (as we are only too painfully aware that narcissists like to do) and creating chaos than in righting a wrong or fighting a good fight.To obtain a story, to expose corruption, to bring a wrong into the light of day, all of these can be done with good, old-fashioned investigative reporting and persistence. Hacking into computers at the Pentagon and certain other nefarious deeds should not be seen as useful tools toward that end, but rather a “look what I can do” moment by a rebellious, criminal eccentric.Patricia WellerEmmitsburg, Md.

Supported byThe tax cut fizzled; send in the clowns!By Paul KrugmanOpinion ColumnistAs far as I know, the Federal Reserve — the world’s most important economic policy institution — doesn’t have an anthem. But if it were to adopt one now, the choice would be obvious: “Send In the Clowns.”You see, the Fed’s governing board currently has two vacancies, and Donald Trump has proposed filling those vacancies with ludicrous hacks. If he succeeds, one of our few remaining havens of serious, nonpartisan policymaking will be on its way toward becoming as corrupt and dysfunctional as the rest of the Trump administration.Stephen Moore and Herman Cain are, of course, completely unqualified — I say “of course” because their lack of qualifications is, paradoxically, a key qualification not just for Trump but for the G.O.P. in general. There are plenty of genuine monetary experts with conservative political leanings, some of them quite partisan. But modern Republicans have shown consistent disdain for such experts, perhaps because of a sense that anyone with real expertise or an independent reputation might occasionally be tempted to take a stand on principle.[For an even deeper look at what’s on Paul Krugman’s mind, sign up for his weekly newsletter.]There’s no risk that either Moore or Cain will ever take such a stand. In fact, what seems to have recommended both men to Trump was their evident willingness to completely reverse their policy views when politically expedient. Both were hard-money men during the Obama years, demanding higher interest rates despite very high unemployment. Both have now taken to berating the Fed for failing to print more money in the face of low unemployment — because that’s what Trump wants.That said, there’s a difference between the two men.I wrote about Moore a couple of weeks ago, noting that he has long been a prominent fixture in the conservative movement; he is, basically, a classic right-wing hack who tries (incompetently) to impersonate an economic expert. Cain, on the other hand, is a spam king whose business model involves making his email list available to direct marketers.Put it this way: In recent years Moore has been out there predicting magical results from tax cuts, putting out fake economic numbers, and giving speeches to FreedomFest. At the same time, Cain has been offering a platform for peddlers of get-rich schemes and cures for erectile dysfunction. So it says something about what Trump wants that he apparently sees the two men as equally valuable allies.What does Trump want? His attempted beclowning of the Fed follows, I’d argue, from the fact that his one major legislative success, the 2017 tax cut — which he predicted would be “rocket fuel” for the economy — has turned out to be a big fizzle, economically and, especially, politically.It’s true that U.S. economic growth got a bump for two quarters last year, and Trumpists are still pretending to believe that we’ll have great growth for a decade. But at this point last year’s growth is looking like a brief and rapidly fading sugar high. Meanwhile, the tax cut remains unpopular, partly because few people perceived personal benefits, partly because voters appear to be less concerned about paying too much than with the sense that the rich — the prime beneficiaries of the Trump cut — are paying too little.Some leaders might see such disappointments as reasons to make a course correction. But this is Trump: When the going gets tough, he blames someone else. Everything would have been great, he insists, if the Fed hadn’t thwarted his plans.There’s a good argument to be made that the Fed misjudged the economy’s strength, that it raised interest rates too fast and that the economy would be doing somewhat better if it hadn’t. In fact, it’s an argument I agree with.But that’s not what Trump is saying. He wants the Fed to act as if we were still in a deep depression; he wants it both to cut rates and to resume the emergency policies it pursued — and he denounced — when we had more than twice as much unemployment as we do today. This would, he insists, turn the economy into the “rocket ship” he originally promised.You don’t have to be a gold bug or even an inflation hawk to see these demands as deeply irresponsible. Indeed, they sound a lot like the “macroeconomic populism” that has repeatedly led to economic disaster in Latin America, with Venezuela the latest example. Running the printing presses to fight a depression, as the Fed did after the financial crisis, is prudent and sensible; running them because you refuse to accept the reality that your policies aren’t delivering an economic miracle is different, and always ends badly.Now, even putting both Moore and Cain on the Fed board probably wouldn’t be enough to push America over the monetary edge. And so far, markets don’t seem worried about the potential for runaway inflation.But maybe investors should be worried, at least a bit, by the spectacle of a president who would rather appoint hacks and debase the Fed’s integrity than admit that his policies aren’t working as promised. U.S. policymaking is looking ever more like that of a corrupt third-world regime. And that is bound, sooner or later, to have consequences.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Paul Krugman has been an Opinion columnist since 2000 and is also a Distinguished Professor at the City University of New York Graduate Center. He won the 2008 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences for his work on international trade and economic geography.  @PaulKrugman 

Supported byA perceived victory for Russian interference poses a serious risk for the United States.By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.The report of the special counsel Robert Mueller leaves considerable space for partisan warfare over the role of President Trump and his political campaign in Russia’s interference in the 2016 election. But one conclusion is categorical: “The Russian government interfered in the 2016 presidential election in sweeping and systematic fashion.”That may sound like old news. The Justice Department’s indictment of 13 Russians and three companies in February 2018 laid bare much of the sophisticated Russian campaign to blacken the American democratic process and support the Trump campaign, including the theft of American identities and creation of phony political organizations to fan division on immigration, religion or race. The extensive hacks of Hillary Clinton’s campaign emails and a host of other dirty tricks have likewise been exhaustively chronicled.But Russia’s interference in the campaign was the core issue that Mr. Mueller was appointed to investigate, and if he stopped short of accusing the Trump campaign of overtly cooperating with the Russians — the report mercifully rejects speaking of “collusion,” a term that has no meaning in American law — he was unequivocal on Russia’s culpability: “First, the Office determined that Russia’s two principal interference operations in the 2016 U.S. presidential election — the social media campaign and the hacking-and-dumping operations — violated U.S. criminal law.”The first part of the report, which describes these crimes, is worthy of a close read. Despite a thick patchwork of redactions, it details serious and dangerous actions against the United States that Mr. Trump, for all his endless tweeting and grousing about the special counsel’s investigation, has never overtly confronted, acknowledged, condemned or comprehended. Culpable or not, he must be made to understand that a foreign power that interferes in American elections is, in fact, trying to distort American foreign policy and national security.The earliest interference described in the report was a social media campaign intended to fan social rifts in the United States, carried out by an outfit funded by an oligarch known as “Putin’s chef” for the feasts he catered. Called the Internet Research Agency, the unit actually sent agents to the United States to gather information at one point. What the unit called “information warfare” evolved by 2016 into an operation targeted at favoring Mr. Trump and disparaging Mrs. Clinton. This included posing as American people or grass-roots organizations such as the Tea Party, anti-immigration groups, Black Lives Matter and others to buy political ads or organize political rallies.At the same time, the report said, the cyberwarfare arm of the Russian army’s intelligence service opened another front, hacking the Clinton campaign and the Democratic National Committee and releasing reams of damaging materials through the front groups DCLeaks and Guccifer 2.0, and later through WikiLeaks. The releases were carefully timed for impact — emails stolen from the Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta, for example, were released less than an hour after the “Access Hollywood” tape damaging to Mr. Trump came out.All this activity, the report said, was accompanied by the well documented efforts to contact the Trump campaign through business connections, offers of assistance to the campaign, invitations for Mr. Trump to meet Mr. Putin and plans for improved American-Russian relations. Both sides saw potential gains, the report said — Russia in a Trump presidency, the campaign from the stolen information. The Times documented 140 contacts between Mr. Trump and his associates and Russian nationals and WikiLeaks or their intermediaries. But the Mueller investigation “did not establish that members of the Trump campaign conspired or coordinated with the Russian government in its election interference activities.”That is the part Mr. Trump sees as vindication, though the activities of his chaotic campaign team that the report describes are — at best — naïve. It is obviously difficult for this president to acknowledge that he was aided in his election by Russia, and there is no way to gauge with any certainty how much impact the Russian activities actually had on voters.But the real danger that the Mueller report reveals is not of a president who knowingly or unknowingly let a hostile power do dirty tricks on his behalf, but of a president who refuses to see that he has been used to damage American democracy and national security.Since the publication of the report, Vladimir Putin and his government have been crowing that they, too, are now somehow vindicated, joining the White House in creating the illusion that the investigation was all about “collusion” rather than a condemnation of criminal Russian actions. If their hope in a Trump presidency was to restore relations between the United States and Russia, and to ease sanctions, the Russians certainly failed, especially given the added sanctions ordered by Congress over Moscow’s interference.But if the main intent was to intensify the rifts in American society, Russia backed a winner in Mr. Trump.A perceived victory for Russian interference poses a serious danger to the United States. Already, several American agencies are working, in partnership with the tech industry, to prevent election interference going forward. But the Kremlin is not the only hostile government mucking around in America’s cyberspace — China and North Korea are two others honing their cyber-arsenals, and they, too, could be tempted to manipulate partisan strife for their ends.That is something neither Republicans nor Democrats should allow. The two parties may not agree on Mr. Trump’s culpability, but they have already found a measure of common ground with the sanctions they have imposed on Russia over its interference in the campaign. Now they could justify the considerable time and expense of the special counsel investigation, and at the same time demonstrate that the fissure in American politics is not terminal, by jointly making clear to Russia and other hostile forces that the democratic process, in the United States and its allies, is strictly off limits to foreign clandestine manipulation, and that anyone who tries will pay a heavy price.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.



      By LIAM STACK, 
    
NICK CUMMING-BRUCE and 
    
MADELEINE KRUHLY

APRIL 11, 2019

Mr. Assange has been has been charged by the United States in the 2010 release of reams of secret American documents. Here are the key points in his case since WikiLeaks burst onto the scene.
Related Article
Julian Assange, the founder of WikiLeaks, has long been targeted by the United States for his role in releasing secret government documents.Now he is just one flight away from being in American custody after years of seclusion in the Ecuadorean Embassy in London. A newly unsealed indictment showed that American prosecutors charged him with conspiring to hack a government computer.Some quick background: Mr. Assange shot to international prominence in 2010 when WikiLeaks published secret material about American military activity in Iraq and Afghanistan, as well as confidential cables sent among diplomats. In 2012, he took refuge at the embassy to avoid extradition to Sweden, where he faced questions about sexual assault allegations.More recently, Mr. Assange has been under attack for his organization's release during the 2016 presidential campaign of thousands of emails stolen from the Democratic National Committee, leading to revelations that embarrassed the party and Hillary Clinton's campaign.American investigators have linked those disclosures to efforts by Donald Trump's campaign to damage Ms. Clinton, but Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel investigating Russian election meddling, did not file any charges against Mr. Assange.Here's a fuller timeline of how Mr. Assange and WikiLeaks got to this point.WikiLeaks burst onto the scene in 2010 when it published secret material about American military activity in Iraq and Afghanistan over the course of several months. In April it released a graphic decrypted video from Iraq. In July, it published a six-year archive of classified military documents about the war in Afghanistan. The group released a second cache of secret reports, this time about the Iraq war, in October. The next month it published a quarter-million confidential American diplomatic cables that offered a look at back-room bargaining.Since then, Wikileaks appears to have gradually shifted its focus to releasing material that benefits Russia, to the consternation of many of its former allies and defenders. Mr. Assange was a persistent problem for the Obama administration, releasing embarrassing documents from the United States and other countries. Meanwhile, President Trump during his campaign repeatedly expressed glee over WikiLeaks’ release of confidential emails from the Democratic National Committee and the Clinton campaign, even after American officials said the emails had been given to WikiLeaks by hackers working for Russian intelligence.Army investigators suspected that the source of the leaks was Chelsea Manning, who was then serving as an enlisted soldier. Private Manning was court-martialed in June 2010, and in August 2013 she was sentenced to 35 years in prison for passing information to WikiLeaks. President Barack Obama commuted her sentence at the end of his second term, and she was released in May 2017.Mr. Assange was investigated in August and September 2010 on charges of rape and molestation after separate complaints from two women. Sweden issued an extradition warrant for him in November that said Mr. Assange was wanted for questioning in connection with accusations of “rape, sexual molestation and unlawful coercion.” He said he was afraid that Sweden would turn him over to the United States, where WikiLeaks has been under investigation, and he vowed to fight the extradition request.A British court ruled in November 2011 that Mr. Assange could be extradited to Sweden. His lawyers challenged that decision, having argued at a February 2011 hearing that he would not receive a fair trial if extradited to Sweden. He lost his final appeal before Britain’s Supreme Court in June 2012. Ecuador rejected pressure from Britain and granted Mr. Assange political asylum in August 2012. He had already spent two months living in the country’s embassy in London. The decision left Mr. Assange confined to the embassy: Ecuador could protect him as long as he remained on Ecuadorean territory, but if he left the embassy he was subject to arrest by the British police.A United Nations rights panel said in January 2016 that Britain and Sweden had arbitrarily detained Mr. Assange, should restore his freedom of movement and should compensate him. The panel said that Swedish prosecutors had not pressed charges and had never shown Mr. Assange evidence against him or given him a chance to respond. The ruling was disregarded by both countries, and Mr. Assange remained in the embassy.Swedish prosecutors, with Ecuador’s help, questioned Mr. Assange for four hours at the embassy in London. His Swedish lawyer, Per E. Samuelson, was not summoned to attend, and on Radio Sweden, he questioned the validity of the interview.Lenín Moreno is elected president of Ecuador, succeeding Rafael Correa, a leftist who had been in power for a decade. During the campaign, several candidates had vowed to evict Mr. Assange from the embassy if they won. Mr. Moreno said he would let Mr. Assange stay, but has been significantly more critical than his predecessor, calling Mr. Assange a hacker and warning him not to meddle in politics.Swedish prosecutors said they would stop the rape investigation into Mr. Assange. The chief prosecutor, Marianne Ny, made clear that this did not mean he was being pronounced innocent: “I can conclude, based on the evidence, that probable cause for this crime still exists,” she said. Ms. Ny said that proceeding with the case would require Mr. Assange to be served notice of the charges against him and for him to be present in a Swedish court, both of which were impossible.In Britain, he still faces a warrant for failing to appear in court, and the Metropolitan Police in London have said that they would arrest him if he were to try to leave the embassy. The Justice Department in Washington has also said it is reconsidering whether to charge Mr. Assange for his role in the disclosure of highly classified information.In early 2018, Ecuador announced that it had made several moves to end the long diplomatic standoff, including granting Mr. Assange citizenship in December, a few months after he asked for it.Days later, Ecuador asked Britain to give Mr. Assange diplomatic immunity so he could leave the embassy, but Britain declined. Still, the Ecuadorean government pushed on, saying it would seek a mediator to help broker a potential deal that would free him to leave the building.A British judge twice upheld the outstanding arrest warrant against Mr. Assange for jumping bail when he took refuge in the embassy in 2012. It was not clear that a ruling in his favor would have led to his going free, because the United States and Britain have never said whether there is a secret request to extradite him to face charges in an American court.A court filing revealed that the The United States Hours before the indictment was unsealed, Mr. Assange had been arrested by the British authorities at the Ecuadorean Embassy in London, where he had lived since 2012.The single charge stemmed from what prosecutors said was his agreement to break a password to a classified United States government computer. Significantly, it was not an espionage charge, a detail that press freedom advocates had watched closely.

Supported byBy Mark MazzettiWASHINGTON — Robert S. Mueller III revealed the scope of a historic Russian campaign to sabotage the 2016 presidential election in a much-anticipated report made public on Thursday, and he detailed a frantic monthslong effort by President Trump to thwart a federal investigation that imperiled his presidency from the start.Mr. Mueller, the special counsel, laid out how his team of prosecutors wrestled with whether Mr. Trump’s actions added up to a criminal obstruction-of-justice offense. They ultimately chose not to charge Mr. Trump, citing numerous legal and factual constraints, but pointedly declined to exonerate him and suggested that it might be the role of Congress to settle the matter.The report laid bare that Mr. Trump was elected with the help of a foreign power, and cataloged numerous meetings between Mr. Trump’s advisers and Russians seeking to influence the campaign and the presidential transition team — encounters set up in pursuit of business deals, policy initiatives and political dirt about Hillary Clinton, the Democratic candidate for president.The special counsel concluded that there was “insufficient evidence” to determine that the president or his aides had engaged in a criminal conspiracy with the Russians, even though the Trump campaign welcomed the Kremlin sabotage effort and “expected it would benefit electorally” from the hacks and leaks of Democratic emails.Then, after federal investigators opened an inquiry into the extraordinary Russian campaign, the president repeatedly tried to undermine it.“If we had confidence after a thorough investigation of the facts that the president clearly did not commit obstruction of justice, we would so state,” Mr. Mueller’s investigators wrote. “Based on the facts and the applicable legal standards, however, we are unable to reach that judgment.”Fevered speculation, now put to rest, arose in some circles that Mr. Trump and his immediate family might be in legal peril from Mr. Mueller’s investigation. At the same time, the report offered reams of evidence of a climate of deceit — and a base impulse for self-preservation — among a president and his top aides not seen since the days of Richard M. Nixon.That impulse prompted some presidential advisers to try to block Mr. Trump’s demands that they take steps to protect him from federal investigators. Some feared getting wrapped up in the widening inquiry.The findings from the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, are now available to the public. The redacted report details his two-year investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election.“The president’s efforts to influence the investigation were mostly unsuccessful, but that is largely because the persons who surrounded the president declined to carry out orders or accede to his requests,” the report said.The special counsel found that Mr. Trump had the authority to make many of his most controversial decisions, including the firing of James B. Comey as the F.B.I. director, by virtue of the powers the Constitution grants him. At the same time, it is a far more damning portrayal of his behavior than the one presented last month in a four-page letter released by Attorney General William P. Barr.“The incidents were often carried out through one-on-one meetings in which the president sought to use his official power outside of usual channels,” the report said. “These actions ranged from efforts to remove the special counsel and to reverse the effect of the attorney general’s recusal; to the attempted use of official power to limit the scope of the investigation; to direct and indirect contacts with witnesses with the potential to influence their testimony. Viewing the acts collectively can help to illuminate their significance.”In his letter, Mr. Barr announced that while Mr. Mueller had made no judgment about whether Mr. Trump had obstructed justice, he had stepped in to decide that the president had not.Mr. Barr defended his decision in a news conference on Thursday and said that some of the president’s actions were understandable given the “context” of his situation.“There is substantial evidence to show that the president was frustrated and angered by a sincere belief that the investigation was undermining his presidency, propelled by his political opponents and fueled by illegal leaks,” Mr. Barr said.The Mueller report is a sometimes gripping account of a presidency consumed by a sprawling investigation, and of a president seized by paranoia about what it might unearth.transcriptHosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Rachel Quester, Theo Balcomb and Paige Cowett, and edited by Lisa TobinWe dig into the highly anticipated findings of the special counsel’s two-year investigation.speakerIt’s up. All right. It’s up. The report’s up. Sorry.[interposing voices][music]michael barbaroFrom The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.”speakerO.K. Mike?mikeYeah.speakerI want you to start on page 215 — “factual results of the obstruction investigation.”michael barbaroToday —speakerSharon, here’s what I want you to excerpt. I want you to start on page four. Nick, I want you to start at the bottom of page eight.michael barbaro448 pages, two years in the making.speakerThat’s new. We didn’t know that.michael barbaroWhat we learned from the Mueller report.speaker 1That quote is new.speaker 2It’s a pretty good quote.michael barbaroIt’s Friday, April 19.michael schmidtMichael, can you hear us?mark mazzettiHey, Michael.michael barbaroYeah. Hey, guys.michael schmidtHey.mark mazzettiHey.michael barbaroAll right. Mike Schmidt, Mark Mazzetti, it’s 9:15 on Thursday night. You’ve both now spent about 10 hours reading the Mueller report. Tell me about this thing.michael schmidtIt’s a breathtaking document. It’s over 400 pages of detailed insights and accounts of enormous issues we’ve been focused on over the past two years. It’s divided into, essentially, two halves — one for Russia, one for the president’s actions in office.michael barbaroIn other words, collusion and obstruction. Those are the two buckets.mark mazzettiRight. The first half detailing the contact between Russians and Trump advisers isn’t enormously revealing, in the sense that we had already heard some weeks ago that there had not been a, quote, “criminal conspiracy” found by Mueller. At the same time, there’s an enormous amount of detail concluding that in the midst of this really historic effort by the Russians to sabotage the election — hacking and leaking of emails, social media manipulation, fake news — it says that the Trump campaign welcomed this. They saw a real benefit of what the Russians were doing, even if at the end of the day there wasn’t an active conspiracy.michael schmidtHe’s essentially saying that they were interested, they sought out information about emails, they wanted to know more about how they could get their hands on these messages. They welcomed all this, but they never crossed the line into breaking the law. Just because they sought out the fruits of the Russian hack doesn’t mean that they were part of the crime.michael barbaroAnd just to be very clear, how is what you’re describing, collectively, not collusion?mark mazzettiWell, I think we need to be careful, because the attorney general said that there was no collusion. And the president said there was no collusion. But the Mueller report is more nuanced. And the Mueller report says, you know, this “collusion” word doesn’t really mean anything to us. There’s no legal standard of collusion. So what we’re going to look at is what is a crime, and that is conspiracy. And that’s what we have to judge all of this voluminous evidence against. And they said that a conspiracy is two parties acting together in concert to break the law. And what Mueller is very clear about is that there is, quote, “insufficient evidence” of a conspiracy. He is not saying there was nothing. He is not saying full exoneration. But he’s saying there is insufficient evidence to meet the standard that he had established of a criminal conspiracy breaking the law.michael barbaroAnd what would Mueller have needed to see for this to add up to conspiracy?michael schmidtThat would have looked like a conversation between the Trump campaign and the Russians where the Trump campaign was saying, hey guys, can you go break into the D.N.C. and steal some emails so we can then get them out and embarrass the Democrats and help us politically during the campaign? That would have gotten you down the conspiracy path. And they did not find that.michael barbaroO.K. So let’s talk about obstruction. Mike, last time we talked, a couple weeks back, Mueller had sent his report to Barr. And Barr had sent a summary of that report to Congress in advance of this full report. And the most confusing thing about that summary was that Mueller had not made a call on whether the evidence added up to obstruction of justice.michael schmidtAnd today, we get to see what Mueller’s explanation is for why he didn’t make a determination on whether the president broke the law. And it’s not clear-cut. What it essentially is is that the president, under Justice Department policy, cannot be indicted. And because the president cannot be indicted, it’s unfair to accuse him while he’s in office of breaking the law, because there’s no way for him to go to court to defend himself. So, dear American public, Mueller essentially says, I am not going to make a determination on that issue. That could be made after the president leaves office. But for now, that would be unfair. So what I will do is I will lay out for you what I found, what the potential obstruction was, why it may be illegal. And after the president leaves office, the Justice Department could make a determination that he indeed broke the law and bring a case. And at the end of explaining why a determination was not made, Mueller says, if we had confidence after a thorough investigation of the facts that the president clearly did not commit obstruction of justice, we would so state. Based on the facts and the applicable legal standards, however, we are unable to reach that judgment. So Mueller is basically saying, if we felt comfortable that the president had done nothing wrong, we would tell you. And we are not telling you that.michael barbaroWell, Mike, you mentioned the incidents that he was not going to use as a basis for charging the president, because he felt he couldn’t charge the president. What were those that he laid out in the report?michael schmidtWell, there’s about a dozen. And they follow in chronological order how Trump misled the public about his relationship with Russia, misled the public about his knowledge that Russia was behind the hacks. And as the presidency goes on and Mueller is appointed in May of 2017, right after he takes office, the president starts to sort of lose his grip as he tries to maintain control of the investigation. He was intent on using his power as the head of the executive branch to protect himself and use the tools at his disposal — the people running the Justice Department, the F.B.I., the intelligence community — to help protect him from this investigation.michael barbaroAnd what are some examples of that — specifics?michael schmidtWell, a lot of them are ones that we know well. The firing of James Comey. His efforts to get his attorney general, Jeff Sessions, to un-recuse himself from the Russia investigation, essentially reassert his control over something that he has stepped aside from because he has a conflict of interest. And when the president can’t get that done, he basically tries to get rid of Sessions and install a loyalist atop the Justice Department. These are things that had been reported in the press. We get a fuller, richer picture of them. And we really see what the president was saying behind closed doors and the immense pressure he was putting on people to try and use the system to protect himself from the system. But then we learn about incidents that we knew little about, like how the president went completely outside of his administration in government to Corey Lewandowski, his first campaign manager.michael barbaroMm-hmm.michael schmidtAnd he leaned on Corey in the summer of 2017 to try and pressure Sessions, his attorney general. So here’s the president of the United States using someone who doesn’t even work for him to get to Sessions and try and get Sessions out there publicly to help clear Trump’s name. It’s just a remarkable way of using presidential power.michael barbaroWhich suggests that the president was meeting resistance within his own administration, and therefore reached out to somebody who didn’t even work for the government to try to get him to achieve this end.michael schmidtI don’t think many in the public will want to hold up the president’s aides as heroes, and a lot of them are probably not. But there is a picture here of folks that stopped the president time and time again and thwarted him from doing things that may have actually gotten him into trouble, that may have crossed that line, that may have made a stronger argument for Mueller about why the president did obstruct justice. One of the most detailed ones is on Trump’s efforts to get rid of Mueller and how his White House counsel would not do that. He would not call the Justice Department on the president’s behalf and say Mueller has to be removed for what the White House counsel, Don McGahn, thought were some bogus reasons Trump had cooked up about why he didn’t like Mueller. And in the document, as Mueller is recounting what happened in this incident, there are Nixonian echoes. It says, on June 17, 2017, the president called McGahn at home and directed him to call the acting attorney general and say that the special counsel had conflicts of interest and must be removed. McGahn did not carry out the direction, however, deciding that he would resign rather than trigger what he regarded as a potential “Saturday Night Massacre” — a reference to when Richard Nixon fired the special counsel who was investigating him.michael barbaroI recognize that this question is a little bit meta, but if getting rid of Mueller had meant that the report was never completed, wouldn’t that have finally been obstruction of justice? Because, literally, an investigation was obstructed.mark mazzettiThere does seem to be a determination here about the success of the president’s efforts, or lack of success — that the fact that the Mueller investigation continued and finished means there is less of a case that the president obstructed justice. If there had been more of a Nixonian moment, where there was an 18-minute gap in tapes that were deliberately erased, that there was some tangible thing that had happened that had meant that prosecutors couldn’t get to the truth, there might possibly have been a different judgment and a different outcome.michael barbaroRight. I keep thinking of that 18-minute deletion when I think about Don McGahn. It’s as if nobody had ever said to Nixon what Don McGahn had said to President Trump — no, I’m not going to delete that tape. Sorry. But that’s what Don McGahn did to the president. That’s what happened with Trump over and over again.mark mazzettiBecause everyone has seen “All the President’s Men,” and they know what happens. And, you know, you don’t want to be the guy who carries out the “Saturday Night Massacre.”michael barbaroSo the president really has these people around him to thank, in a lot of ways.michael schmidtAt the end of the day, there were these folks that were not going to go that extra inch and go over the line for him. And it looks like those measures probably saved him.mark mazzettiI mean, Mueller lays this point out explicitly. This is a quote from the report. “The president’s efforts to influence the investigation were mostly unsuccessful. But that is largely because the persons who surrounded the president declined to carry out orders or cede to his requests. Comey did not end the investigation of Flynn, which ultimately resulted in Flynn’s prosecution and conviction for lying to the F.B.I. McGahn did not tell the acting attorney general that the special counsel must be removed, but was instead prepared to resign over the president’s order. Lewandowski and Dearborn did not deliver the president’s message to Sessions that he should confine the Russian investigation to future election meddling only. And McGahn refused to recede from his recollections about events surrounding the president’s direction to have the special counsel removed, despite the president’s multiple demands to do so.”michael barbaroHmm. And Mike, before seeing this report, our understanding of why Mueller may not have reached a conclusion on obstruction of justice was that obstruction has a lot to do with intent. Why did the president take the actions that he took? What did we learn from the report about how Mueller might have been thinking about that?michael schmidtWe learn that the president was intent on ending the investigation into himself, but it’s less clear about what was truly motivating him.michael barbaroI guess I don’t quite understand that. If his intent is to end the investigation, how is that not obstruction of justice?mark mazzettiThis is the heart of this dispute right now.michael schmidtYeah.mark mazzettiIt’s a clash of two theories. I mean, Mueller’s team clearly indicated that the actions come up to the line of obstruction of justice — that the intent to end the investigation to preserve his presidency does, in fact, approach something that is criminal obstruction of justice, even if they did not make that determination. The rub here is that it is at odds with the theory of Robert Mueller’s boss, Attorney General Barr. He got the job of attorney general, some say, based on his theory that the president can’t really obstruct justice. Barr says, today, in his press conference —archived recording (william barr)President Trump faced an unprecedented situation. As he entered into office and sought to perform his responsibilities as president, federal agents and prosecutors were scrutinizing his conduct before and after taking office.mark mazzettiAt the heart of a obstruction of justice investigation is whether that person has corrupt intent. And his determination is that the president didn’t. And in a way, this big debate over the intent of the president — Barr kind of goes out of his way today to fill in the blanks, to sort of say, well, let’s look at the president’s intent.archived recording (william barr)At the same time, there was relentless speculation in the news media about the president’s personal culpability. Yet, as he said from the beginning, there was, in fact, no collusion.mark mazzettiThe president felt that this was consuming his presidency.archived recording (william barr)There is substantial evidence to show that the president was frustrated and angered by his sincere belief that the investigation was undermining his presidency, propelled by his political opponents, and fueled by illegal leaks. Nonetheless, the White House fully cooperated with the special counsel’s investigation.mark mazzettiYeah. He wanted this thing over. So in a way, what was one of the things that was so extraordinary about Barr’s press conference was that he explains the president’s reasoning in a way that the president hasn’t himself.michael barbaroSo Barr would say that trying to end the investigation to protect the presidency is not corrupt motive. In fact, in his telling, it’s arguably even important, maybe even a little bit noble. It’s in the best interest of the American people.michael schmidtPerhaps patriotic.michael barbaroHmm.mark mazzettiSo there’s this totally compelling moment in the middle of the report that paints a scene of the president being told that a special counsel had just been appointed. And I’ll quote directly from the report. “The president slumped back in his chair and said, ‘Oh, my God. This is terrible. This is the end of my presidency. I’m fucked.’ The president became angry and lambasted the attorney general for his decision to recuse from the investigation, stating, ‘How could you let this happen, Jeff?’ The president said the position of attorney general was his most important appointment, and that Sessions had, quote, ‘let him down,’ contrasting him with Eric Holder and Robert Kennedy. Sessions recalled that the president said to him, ‘You were supposed to protect me,’ or words to that effect. The president returned to the consequences of the appointment and said, ‘Everyone tells me if you get one of these independent counsels, it ruins your presidency. It takes years and years, and I won’t be able to do anything. This is the worst thing that ever happened to me.’” The way this passage reads is the president’s anger about the appointment of a special counsel comes mostly from the recognition that it’s going to imperil his presidency. It means nothing will get done. It means that he’s going to spend the rest of his term fighting it. It’s not because he’s worried that Robert Mueller might find something that will one day land Donald Trump in jail. That’s one reading of this passage that would bolster the argument made by the attorney general that the president faced this extraordinary situation.michael schmidtI don’t think that makes any sense. Or at least I don’t understand it. I don’t understand how the attorney general can say there’s no issue of an underlying crime here when Donald Trump is sitting there acknowledging the potential threat from the depth and breadth of a special counsel’s investigation. He knew at that point, in May of 2017, that he had had his personal lawyer, Michael Cohen, make hush money payments to women. Donald Trump was smart enough to know that a special counsel — like in Bill Clinton or any other presidency — rummages around on one issue and ends up on another. And what happens? Mueller finds these weird transactions. He refers it to another U.S. attorney’s office. And the president is ultimately in a completely separate investigation, named as an unindicted co-conspirator.michael barbaroHmm.michael schmidtHow is there not an underlying crime that Donald Trump was afraid about? In July of 2017, myself and two colleagues go into the Oval Office to interview the president. He says, if Mueller looks at my finances, it’s crossing a red line. So what were Trump’s motivations for getting rid of Mueller? Was he really worried about Russia? Or was he worried that, hey, if this guy rummages around on Russia, he’s going to find something else? Indeed, he did.michael barbaroSo Mike, you’re saying that Barr’s argument — that the president is just protecting the presidency — doesn’t really hold up. Because we know for a fact that the president understood, at this point, that when he says, I’m effed, that he has these payments made in coordination with Michael Cohen to these women as hush money, which have nothing to do with the Russia investigation, but which obviously could be incredibly damaging to him, and maybe even criminal.michael schmidtLook, no one has questioned the president about this in a law enforcement setting. I don’t know exactly what the president’s intentions were, but the idea that there was no underlying criminality in Donald Trump’s life in May of 2017, when Mueller got appointed, is bogus. Because there was. Further, in December of 2017, there is a report out there that Mueller has subpoenaed the president’s bank records.michael barbaroMm-hmm.michael schmidtBefore the president’s lawyers are able to get the message to him that the report is wrong, he starts telling White House aides that Mueller has to go.michael barbaroHmm.michael schmidtI do think there’s a decent case to be made that there were underlying issues of criminality within his life. The Justice Department has said that itself.michael barbaroO.K. So regardless of the president’s intent, is it important whether or not he was successful in impeding this investigation, in thinking about the question of obstruction of justice?michael schmidtWell, I think for the folks at the Justice Department who had to make the call about whether the president broke the law, one of the factors that played into their declination decision was the fact that when you looked at the investigation, the efforts that the president took did not significantly damage the inquiry.michael barbaroRight.michael schmidtDespite the president’s best efforts, he was not very good at obstructing justice.michael barbaroRight. The existence of the Mueller report today suggests that the investigation did not get obstructed.michael schmidtDespite all of Donald Trump’s huffing and puffing and trying to get this person to do this and this person to do that, Bob Mueller moved ahead unimpeded for two years, finished his investigation, and the entire country got to see the fruits of it. Show us where the obstruction is, is what the president’s defenders would say.[music]michael barbaroWe’ll be right back. So finally, I want to talk about Bill Barr’s role in all this. Because the position of many Democrats today was that Barr — in reaching a decision on obstruction of justice where Mueller did not, in holding a press conference ahead of the report’s release seeming to defend the president, all taken together — has undermined any credibility that he had, and that Democrats and the country need to see for themselves what Mueller had found. How are you thinking about Barr in this moment, having now spent time with the Mueller report?mark mazzettiI mean, the one thing is clear is that this has been a lot of red meat for Democrats in Congress to keep investigating. And one of the things that they’re going to keep investigating is Barr’s role in this entire process. They are going to try to get him up to testify. They are going to try to get more underlying documents in the Mueller investigation. They now see Barr as a clear target for them. I think a lot of people, because of all these actions, have a much different picture of the attorney general than they did a month or two ago.michael barbaroAnd they’re going to try to understand the differences between what Bob Mueller thinks about all this — the supposedly nonpartisan figure — and what Bill Barr thinks about this — the presidential appointee whose allegiances are clearly closer to the president.michael schmidtThere’s one answer to this. And that is that after this entire investigation in which Bob Mueller has said nothing publicly, including today, when there was a press conference held to talk about his report, we need to hear from Bob Mueller. We need for him to explain to us more how they came to this determination that they couldn’t say whether the president violated the law or not. Does Mueller think that Barr has misrepresented some of his findings? What was his relationship with the Justice Department? Did he believe that Congress should deal with this issue and that Barr shouldn’t have made a call on whether the president violated the law? We need to hear from Mueller. We have never heard his voice in the past two years.michael barbaroSo inadvertently, in seeming to protect the president and not be representing Mueller, Bill Barr may be extending Democrats’ interest in this investigation and the trouble for the president.mark mazzettiAbsolutely. If you look back at what Barr has done in the last month, this could have turned out differently for him — if he had put out the report immediately after the letter or as soon after the letter as he could have, if he had characterized the report differently in that four-page letter, and if he hadn’t had a press conference on the day of the release before anyone had seen the report that had this appearance of trying to spin it for the president and protect the president. That seems to have created more problems both for Barr and the president than if they had just released the report.michael barbaroMark, thank you very much. Mike, thank you very much.mark mazzettiThank you.michael schmidtThanks for having us.[music]michael barbaro“The Daily” is made by Theo Balcomb, Andy Mills, Lisa Tobin, Rachel Quester, Lynsea Garrison, Annie Brown, Clare Toeniskoetter, Paige Cowett, Michael Simon Johnson, Brad Fisher, Larissa Anderson, Wendy Dorr, Chris Wood, Jessica Cheung, Alexandra Leigh Young, Jonathan Wolfe, Lisa Chow, Eric Krupke and Marc Georges. Our theme music is by Jim Brunberg and Ben Landsverk of Wonderly. Special thanks to Sam Dolnick, Mikayla Bouchard, Stella Tan, Julia Simon and Samantha Henig. That’s it for “The Daily.” I’m Michael Barbaro. See you on Monday.Immediately after learning that a special counsel had been appointed to lead the Russia investigation, the report said, Mr. Trump became distraught and slumped in his chair.“Oh, my God. This is terrible,” he said. “This is the end of my presidency. I’m fucked.”Mr. Trump had long denounced the inquiry as a politically motivated “witch hunt.” But since it began, a half-dozen former Trump aides have been indicted or convicted of crimes, most of them for lying to Congress or federal investigators.Last month’s release of Mr. Mueller’s primary conclusions seemed to blunt any momentum on Capitol Hill to initiate impeachment proceedings against Mr. Trump, and it appeared unlikely then that the far more detailed accounting of the special counsel’s work would change that dynamic.But on Thursday, top Democratic lawmakers seized on the report’s findings and suggested that the issue of impeachment was not settled. At the very least, Mr. Mueller’s report seems certain to give Democratic lawmakers — and the many Democratic presidential candidates — ample political fodder for attacks on the president until he stands for re-election late next year.The release is the culmination of an investigation that consumed the national political conversation for nearly two years and was freighted with the outsize expectations of Mr. Trump’s most fervent critics.Mr. Mueller achieved a cult status among some Americans obsessed with the prospect that he might deliver a report that would put the Trump presidency in jeopardy — an image fueled by his general refusal to give public signals about the direction of his investigation. Mr. Mueller and his staff seemed monkish and enigmatic, choosing to speak only in court appearances and highly detailed indictments of Russian intelligence operatives or some of the president’s advisers.Some Americans invested so much hope in the Mueller investigation that they made plans to hold rallies in predetermined locations if Mr. Trump fired the special counsel and terminated the investigation. He never did.The Mueller investigation began in May 2017, but its origins go back nearly a year earlier. The F.B.I. opened the original inquiry into possible ties between the Trump campaign and Russia on July 31, 2016, in the midst of a heated presidential election contest that, the world now knows, Moscow made a concerted effort to sabotage.That summer saw WikiLeaks release thousands of hacked emails meant to cripple Mrs. Clinton’s candidacy, and American intelligence and law enforcement officials saw other ominous signs of Russian attempts to subvert the election.Determining the scope of the Russian interference campaign was a centerpiece of the Mueller investigation, and will most likely be one of its enduring legacies. His report leaves no doubt that it was the Russian government that orchestrated the effort, and that many of Mr. Trump’s aides welcomed it — even if they did not actively coordinate with Moscow.At the very least, in the face of a Russian intelligence effort to make contact with Mr. Trump’s advisers, none of the advisers thought to contact the F.B.I.More than two years of criminal indictments and steady revelations about Trump campaign contacts with Russians reveal the scope of the special counsel investigation.When Mr. Mueller began his work, there were still prominent voices at both ends of the political spectrum openly debating whether the hacking and leaking of emails — and the fake news that spread like a wildfire on social media in the months before the election — was the work of Russia, China, stateless hackers or, as Mr. Trump once liked to say, “someone sitting on their bed that weighs 400 pounds.”Even last summer, standing next to President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia after a summit meeting in Finland, Mr. Trump refused to accept that the Russians had carried out the election sabotage.Now, the voices of doubt have mostly been silenced, in part because of two indictments Mr. Mueller secured last year against a total of 25 Russian military intelligence operatives and experts in social media manipulation. The indictments gave exquisite details about the entirety of the Russian operation — how Russians paid unsuspecting Americans to stage pro-Trump rallies in battleground states, how Russian hackers penetrated the personal email account of Mrs. Clinton’s campaign chairman and how a pair of Russian women took a scouting trip to the United States two years before the election to gather information for the planned assault.Just weeks into his presidency, Mr. Trump declared there had been no meetings or other communications during the campaign between his advisers and Russians or other Kremlin intermediaries. A parade of news media reports followed saying otherwise — reports that the White House denounced at the time as false but that Mr. Mueller’s report showed to be accurate.One of the most significant was a June 2016 meeting at Trump Tower set up by Donald Trump Jr., the president’s eldest son, and a group of Russians who had promised political dirt about Mrs. Clinton.When The New York Times revealed the meeting a year later, there was a frenzied effort by the president’s aides to mislead the public about its purpose — including putting out a news release that the meeting had primarily been about a Russian adoption program.The report stated that Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer “repeatedly and inaccurately denied that the president played any role in drafting Trump Jr.’s statement,” and that the special counsel investigated whether that meeting violated campaign finance laws. Mr. Mueller’s team found that the evidence was “not sufficient.”Some of the meetings with Russians were a mélange of business and politics, and Mr. Mueller’s prosecutors wrapped up their inquiry still puzzled about their purpose.In December 2016, for instance, the head of a Russian bank under sanctions met in New York with Jared Kushner, the president’s son-in law and senior adviser. Mr. Kushner told the special counsel it was a diplomatic meeting with a person close to Mr. Putin set to discuss the future of relations between the United States and Russia.The Russian banker, Sergey N. Gorkov, has given a different account of the meeting’s purpose: to sit down with Mr. Kushner, the scion of a New York real estate empire, for business purposes.In the end, the special counsel’s team “did not resolve the apparent conflicts in the accounts,” according to the report.Mr. Trump declared victory last month when Mr. Barr sent the four-page letter to Congress outlining the investigation’s main conclusions.“After three years of lies and smears and slander, the Russia hoax is finally dead,” Mr. Trump told thousands of his supporters at a Michigan rally days after Mr. Barr’s letter was made public. “Robert Mueller was a god to the Democrats. He was a god to them until he said ‘no collusion.’ They don’t like him so much now.”Even so, the revelations in Mr. Barr’s letter did not produce a noticeable bump in Mr. Trump’s approval rating, and polls taken in the weeks since Mr. Barr’s letter have shown that many Americans were reserving judgment until they had a fuller picture of Mr. Mueller’s conclusions.Other Americans made up their minds long ago, and it is unclear what the effect will be of the release of hundreds of pages of investigative conclusions by a team of seasoned prosecutors. Those already convinced that the investigation was a witch hunt, and those already convinced that Mr. Trump conspired with Russia to win the presidency, are unlikely to be moved by the conclusions of Mr. Mueller and his team.Mr. Mueller’s byzantine investigation amassed information from thousands of subpoenas, hundreds of search warrants and evidence turned over from more than a dozen foreign governments.The report released on Thursday revealed that his team of prosecutors had found enough evidence of potential crimes to make 14 different criminal referrals to other federal prosecutors.So far, only two of those have officially been made public.

Supported byBy Cecilia KangWASHINGTON — The chairman of the Federal Communications Commission said on Wednesday that he would oppose China Mobile’s application to provide cell service to Americans because of security concerns, sinking the company’s chances of entering the United States market.“It is clear that China Mobile’s application to provide telecommunications services in our country raises substantial and serious national security and law enforcement risks,” Ajit Pai, the chairman, said in a statement.He said the full commission would vote on the proposal in May. The vote of Mr. Pai, a Republican, carries tremendous sway because his party holds three of the five commission seats.The rejection escalates the United States’ battle against China’s expanding influence in the technology and telecommunications industry. The Trump administration has focused most intensely on Huawei, China’s largest telecom equipment company. The White House has accused Huawei of being an arm of the Chinese government that can be used for spying or to sabotage communications networks. Huawei has vehemently denied the accusations.The American government has stopped Huawei from selling equipment for the next generation of cellular technology, known as 5G, in the United States. But the administration’s effort to persuade other countries to avoid Huawei’s equipment has run into resistance in many places.China Mobile, one of the largest cellular providers in the world, applied for a license to connect calls between the United States and other nations in 2011. The company was not seeking to provide domestic cell service and compete in the country with businesses like AT&amp;T and Verizon.Still, China Mobile’s ability to connect calls between Americans to locations abroad worried the F.C.C. Those calls could be intercepted for surveillance and make the domestic network vulnerable to hacking and other risks, a senior official said in a call with reporters.Mr. Pai said he had rejected the application after an internal review, and upon a recommendation last year by the Commerce Department to reject China Mobile’s plans because of the potential for espionage, hacking and other security risks. The application was filed by China Mobile U.S.A., a Delaware corporation that is ultimately controlled by the Chinese government, the F.C.C. said.The application had sat for years with the commission with little public attention. Under President Trump, officials at the Commerce Department reviewed the application and recommended in July that the F.C.C. reject it. It was the first time, the commission said, that an administration had rejected a foreign telecommunications application.“After significant engagement with China Mobile, concerns about increased risks to U.S. law enforcement and national security interests were unable to be resolved,” David J. Redl, an assistant secretary in the Commerce Department, wrote in a statement in July.Foreign telecommunications companies that operate in the United States include British Telecom; T-Mobile U.S.A., a unit of Deutsche Telekom of Germany; and Telekomunikasi Indonesia International (U.S.A.), which is majority-owned by the Indonesian government. It often goes by Telin U.S.A.Mr. Pai’s decision highlights increasingly similar agendas for the F.C.C., an independent agency, and the White House. Last week, he joined Mr. Trump at a White House announcement to create a multibillion-dollar fund to get broadband to rural areas that lack good service.Mr. Trump has declared China’s booming telecommunications and tech sector a threat to Americans security and global economic leadership. The concern is focused on a global race to build 5G wireless networks that promise much faster speeds than current wireless services. Mr. Trump has declared 5G a national priority because it could enable new technologies like driverless cars, smart transportation systems and industrial robots that will depend on fast connections between internet-enabled machines.Mr. Pai has proposed a ban on any Huawei networking equipment in the United States for broadband and telecommunications providers that receive government subsidies. The ban would also apply to ZTE, another Chinese telecom equipment maker. AT&amp;T and Verizon are among the carriers that have raised concerns about the proposal, though it is still widely expected to be approved.Blair Levin, a policy adviser for New Street Research, said the action on Wednesday brought the F.C.C. closer to the administration’s broader battles with China.“The interesting question, of course, is whether the decision is really about trade policy, security policy or communications policy,” Mr. Levin said. “It probably is all of those things.”

Supported byTech We’re UsingDavid E. Sanger, a national security correspondent, recounts his gear from the computers in use when he joined The Times in 1982 to his overloaded backpack now.Featuring David E. SangerHow do New York Times journalists use technology in their jobs and in their personal lives? David E. Sanger, a national security correspondent based in Washington, discussed the tech he’s using.You previously were a bureau chief for The Times in Japan, one of your many roles for the newspaper. When you arrived in Tokyo in the late 1980s, what tech were you equipped with?In retrospect, nothing very impressive. Our “portable” computers weighed about the same as an electric typewriter, had a tiny cathode-ray tube screen that showed a paragraph or two at most and stored stories on magnetic bubble memory, which in the 1980s was supposed to replace hard drives.Needless to say, it was a technology whose time never arrived. Oh, and the computer had two black rubber cups on the top. You put the handset of a hard-line phone into them and dialed up a computer in New York to transmit at the astoundingly slow speed of 300 bits per second. Half the time we had to give up and call the dictation room, where someone would type out the story that you read to them.When we gave up on bubble memory computers and moved to the first laptops, I sent a note to New York asking what to do with these dinosaurs. The answer I got back was: Your office looks out over Tokyo Bay. Figure it out.So today the technology is lots faster, but perhaps not a lot more reliable. What’s the worst tech failure you’ve suffered?Naturally, things die when deadlines are tightest. There was the time I was rushing off the back stairs of Air Force One in the Middle East with an open laptop, story half-written and late to the editing desk, and managed to drop my computer 20 feet on the tarmac. (Not good.) I’ve had modems die in Egypt, and the blue screen of death crawl across my laptop in India. Power supplies don’t like variable current — I’ve melted my share.This has all made me focus intently on what NASA calls “mission-critical components.” If you can’t file your story — or record video, or connect up with “The Daily’’ — you might as well not be there. So I travel with a laptop and a backup iPad with a keyboard, so there is always a way to write. I take two phones — and two booster battery packs. I carry an AT&amp;T portable hot spot, and still I’ve had to fall back at times on the built-in Wi-Fi hot spot on my iPhone. Oh, and a Logitech camera that allows me to do TV hits over a Skype connection without using the built-in pinhole camera in the laptop. So my backpack weighs plenty — and my wife and our sons think carrying it everywhere is faintly ridiculous. Until they run out of cellphone power.You’d think that belt-and-suspenders approach would cover everything. It doesn’t. In Hanoi, Vietnam, this year for a summit meeting between President Trump and Kim Jong-un, we were, as my colleague Edward Wong put it, “comms cursed.” Lots of things failed. It didn’t help that I was staying in the Metropole hotel, where the meeting was being held, and security personnel blanketed the lobby with a cellphone suppression technology that keeps terrorists from detonating bombs remotely. Turns out it also keeps reporters from updating their stories on the web.You published your third book, “The Perfect Weapon: War, Sabotage and Fear in the Cyber Age,” last year. It’s a geopolitical look at how nations are using cyberweapons, and not just for espionage. Ever been a target?I’m afraid that if you are in my line of work — writing about the intersection of technology, spying, cybersabotage and national power — you attract attention from intelligence services. In Beijing in 2017 with Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, I made the mistake of looking up something about the Tiananmen Square massacre from my hotel room, over a portable hot spot. Big mistake. The hot spot stopped working. I couldn’t revive it in Japan, or back at home. We later determined that Chinese intelligence had fried the firmware.A few years ago I began seeing that big red banner over my email account that declared: “We have detected a state-sponsored attacker seeking to obtain your data.” That could be anyone: Russians who didn’t like our investigations into the 2016 presidential election and subsequent hacks; Chinese People’s Liberation Army officers who didn’t care for our work exposing Unit 61398, which stole intellectual property; North Koreans who didn’t like our coverage of the Sony hack, the Bangladeshi central bank cyberheist or the cyberattacks on their missiles.And I’ve survived enough F.B.I. leak investigations to become mildly paranoid about our own government.So what do you use to protect yourself?There is no permanent technological solution to hacking, data manipulation and, soon, deep fakes — like climate change, this is a problem we have to manage. Ultimately, we will need a mix of technology, political agreements and retaliatory responses that establish that attacks are not cost-free.That said, I’m a big fan of Google’s Advanced Protection program. It uses a combination of a key that fits in a USB slot (with a button that must be pressed) and a Bluetooth dongle, each registered to your computer or cellphone. Try to get access to someone’s accounts on a computer without that hardware present and you don’t get in.If you were cyber king for a day, what mandates would you issue?First, I’d ban the use of any voting machine that doesn’t rely on a hand-marked paper ballot, so there is something to count later. I’d require encryption for all personal information that you are asked turn over, including when I hand my passport to a hotel clerk. (Hear that, Marriott? It’s time.) And I’d make it illegal to have Social Security numbers used as an identifier on any electronic document, site, app or password combination. It’s the one number in your life you simply cannot change, without extraordinary effort. It was never intended to be used as a secure identifier. So let’s not try.What favorite cool technology do you always take with you?Sanity-preservation devices that cut me off from the world, from editors and from the complaints of presidents, secretaries of state and national security officials. The three most vital: Bose noise-canceling headphones, a small shortwave radio and a seven-piece, four-weight fly rod that breaks down to fit in a tube under a foot long. When the weather warms up, I carry the rod in that overloaded backpack along with a reel and a box of flies. No batteries required. I’ve been known to sneak out of hotels in early-morning hours to cast into rivers, harbors, ponds, you name it. I don’t even care if nothing’s biting — the casting is therapeutic.Don’t tell the bosses, O.K.?David E. Sanger is a national security correspondent. In a 36-year reporting career for The Times, he has been on three teams that have won Pulitzer Prizes, most recently in 2017 for international reporting. His newest book is “The Perfect Weapon: War, Sabotage and Fear in the Cyber Age.”  @SangerNYT • Facebook 



      Compiled by NATALIE PROULX

APRIL 16, 2019

Above is an image related to one of the news stories we followed this past week. Do you know what it shows? At the bottom of this quiz, you'll find the answer.Have you been paying attention to the news recently? See how many of these 10 questions you can get right., one of the most iconic symbols of beauty and history in , was engulfed in flames on April 15, leading to the collapse of part of its spire.Saint Mark’s Basilica; VeniceThe Cathedral of Notre-Dame; ParisThe Sagrada Familia; BarcelonaWestminster Abbey; LondonAstronomers announced on April 10 that they had at last captured an image of one of the most secretive entities in the cosmos: .a black holea sun from another universedark matterthe most distant object in the Milky Way galaxy military ousted President Omar Hassan al-Bashir on April 11, ending a 30-year authoritarian rule in the face of mass street protests.Algeria’sSouth Africa’sSudan’sVenezuela’sTiger Woods completed a comeback from personal and professional adversity on April 14, capturing his fifth  title and his 15th major tournament with a victory that snapped a decade-long championship drought and instantly returned him to the top of the sports world.British OpenMastersP.G.A. ChampionshipUnited States OpenThe WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange was arrested on April 11 in London to face a charge in the United States of  in 2010, bringing to an abrupt end a seven-year saga in which he had holed up in Ecuador’s embassy in Britain to avoid capture.conspiring to hack into a Pentagon computer networkhacking the Democratic National Committee and Clinton campaignleaking highly classified information about the National Security Agency’s mass surveillance programusing WikiLeaks technologies and products to spy on AmericansPresident Trump on April 12 targeted Representative Ilhan Omar for remarks she made during a speech on civil rights and Muslims in America with a graphic video featuring , that he tweeted to his millions of followers.a crowd at a rally cheering his ban on travel from several predominantly Muslim countriesthe burning World Trade Center towers and other images from Sept. 11, 2001the recent mosque attacks in New Zealand and other attacks on Muslimsviolent acts committed by the Taliban in Syria and IraqChoking back tears as they danced, family members, fans and hip-hop luminaries gathered on April 11 in Los Angeles to honor , the rapper who was gunned down in South Los Angeles last month. AminéDom KennedyJay RockNipsey HusslePresident Trump said on April 12 that his administration was “strongly” considering , suggesting that the idea should make liberals “very happy” because of their immigration policies.ending the campaign for building a wall on the border between the United States and Mexicoimmediately granting United States citizenship to all migrants detained at the bordermaking a deal with top-ranking Democrats that will increase immigration over the next 10 yearsreleasing migrants detained at the border into mostly Democratic “sanctuary cities”, Israel’s conservative prime minister for the past decade, appeared poised to win a fourth consecutive term in office, and a fifth over all, according to preliminary results early on April 10.Arye DeryBenjamin NetanyahuBenny GantzYaakov LitzmanThree of the articles about politics, below, were recently published in The New York Times. One is from the satirical site The Onion. Which is the fake news story?“Emboldened by His Attorney General, Trump Confronts Mueller Report Head-On”“New Study Finds 85% Of Americans Don't Know All The Dance Moves To National Anthem”“Pete Buttigieg Announces Official Start to 2020 Campaign”“The Supreme Court Will Soon Consider Whether the Census Will Include a Citizenship Question”


APRIL 10, 2019

The New York Times is launching an ongoing examination of privacy. We’ll dig into the ideas, history and future of how our information navigates the digital ecosystem and what’s at stake.
Companies and governments are gaining new powers to follow people across the internet and around the world, and even to peer into their genomes. The benefits of such advances have been apparent for years; the costs — in anonymity, even autonomy — are now becoming clearer. The boundaries of privacy are in dispute, and its future is in doubt. Citizens, politicians and business leaders are asking if societies are making the wisest tradeoffs. The Times is embarking on this monthslong project to explore the technology and where it’s taking us, and to convene debate about how it can best help realize human potential.View all Privacy articlesIllustrations by Max GutherFOLLOW ALONG As technology advances, will it continue to blur the lines between public and private? Sign up for Charlie Warzel’s limited-run newsletter to explore what’s at stake and what you can do about it.WE WANT TO HEAR FROM YOU We are collecting stories of how lives have been altered by this sharing of information, whether by our own choice or by theft. We welcome both positive experiences (if you discovered a long-lost cousin through a DNA test, for example) and negative ones (how your information was hacked and shared).Share Your Story

Supported byBy Isabella Grullón PazFrom a Department of Homeland Security shake-up to the arrest of Julian Assange, it’s been a busy week in American politics. Here are some of the biggest stories you might have missed (and some links if you’d like to read further).___________________Kirstjen Nielsen resigned as homeland security secretary on Sunday after meeting with President Trump, ending a tumultuous tenure that had made her a target of the president’s criticism. She is the latest in a long line of senior officials who have left the administration unceremoniously.To placate Congress, Mr. Trump named a new “acting” secretary for homeland security. Such temporary appointments are seemingly becoming a permanent condition of the Trump administration.A day after forcing Ms. Nielsen’s resignation, Mr. Trump accelerated a purge of the nation’s immigration and security leadership. At least five senior officials have been pushed out or are expected to leave in the coming weeks.The moves suggest that Mr. Trump is preparing to unleash an even fiercer assault on immigration, which could include making it much harder for migrants to receive asylum — or even closing the border altogether.Additional Reading• U.S. Wants to Allow More Foreign Workers While Also Restricting Immigration• Trump Says He Is Considering Releasing Migrants in ‘Sanctuary Cities’• Trump Says the U.S. Is ‘Full.’ Much of the Nation Has the Opposite Problem.• The U.S. Immigration System May Have Reached a Breaking PointAfter seven years of hiding in the Ecuadorean Embassy in London, Julian Assange, the founder of WikiLeaks, was arrested on Thursday after Ecuador revoked his asylum status. Mr. Assange faces one count of conspiracy to hack a Pentagon computer as part of the 2010 release of reams of secret American documents.Mr. Assange’s indictment makes no mention of the central role WikiLeaks played in the Russian campaign to undermine Hillary Clinton’s presidential chances and help elect Mr. Trump. It remains unclear whether his arrest will answer the remaining questions surrounding the Russians’ relationship to the Trump campaign.The creation of WikiLeaks empowered a new generation of whistle-blowers and insiders, enraging the powerful in many countries. But Mr. Assange himself became a highly problematic champion for the principles of press freedom and the public’s right to information.Additional Reading• Press Freedoms and the Case Against Julian Assange, Explained• Julian Assange’s Seven Strange Years in Self-Imposed Isolation• Extraditing Assange Promises to Be a Long, Difficult ProcessLike the proliferation of guns, capital punishment distinguishes the United States from other Western democracies, virtually all of which have banned it. Now, after decades of declining public support for the death penalty, a new generation of Democratic candidates is speaking out against it.As a married gay man and a Scripture-quoting Christian, the Democratic presidential candidate Pete Buttigieg has challenged the religious right on its own turf, confronting evangelicals over gay rights and questioning the moral authority of those who have stayed silent about Mr. Trump’s conduct.Just about every Democratic candidate seems to have a “grass-roots movement” now, not a campaign. What’s the difference? That’s not really clear.A few more candidates released their fund-raising numbers for the first quarter: Cory Booker raised $5 million, Amy Klobuchar raised $5.2 million and Elizabeth Warren raised $6 million. And Representative Eric Swalwell, a fourth-term congressman from California, joined the crowded Democratic field.Additional Reading• Booker Campaigns on Baby Bonds Program to Combat Inequality• Would ‘Medicare for All’ Save Billions or Cost Billions?• The Democratic Electorate on Twitter Is Not the Actual Democratic Electorate• On the eve of his successful bid for another term, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel vowed to annex parts of the West Bank, openly disregarding four decades of American policy. Nothing has emboldened Mr. Netanyahu more than Mr. Trump's support.• Mr. Trump on Monday labeled a powerful arm of the Iranian military as a foreign terrorist organization. It’s the first time the United States has applied that designation to part of another nation’s government.• Federal Reserve officials were worried about slowing economic growth abroad when they decided to pause interest rate increases and cut economic growth forecasts for 2019, according to minutes from the March meeting released on Wednesday.• Gregory B. Craig, a former aide to President Barack Obama, was charged with lying to the Justice Department and concealing information about work he did for the Russia-aligned government of Ukraine in 2012.• Congress is leaving for a two-week spring recess without fulfilling the most pressing item on its agenda: aid to victims of floods, fires and hurricanes. The biggest point of contention? Helping Puerto Rico.• Mr. Trump said Thursday that he would be open to a third summit meeting with North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un. Mr. Kim said he would consider it, under the right circumstances._____________________Today’s On Politics briefing was compiled by Isabella Grullón Paz in New York.Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.



      By CHARLIE WARZEL and 
    
STUART A. THOMPSON

APRIL 10, 2019

On June 9, 1999, Google made a pledge to its small but growing number of customers in a blunt 600-word statement. “Google is sensitive to the privacy concerns of its users. The internet allows individuals to explore and communicate with unprecedented ease, but it also allows websites to collect and distribute personal information with equal ease. We at Google know that many users are, understandably, concerned about such practices.”The statement, which today reads like a quaint artifact of a simpler time, would become the company’s first privacy policy — a gently lawyered explanation of how the company collects and distributes its users’ data and information. Google’s was far from the first privacy statement from a big technology business, but it’s one of the first examples of the form from a company that helped lay the foundation for the modern, information-guzzling internet.[As technology advances, will it continue to blur the lines between public and private? Sign up for Charlie Warzel’s limited-run newsletter to explore what's at stake and what you can do about it.]  And it wasn’t only Google that was “sensitive to the privacy concerns of its users.” All of today’s tech giants have made similar commitments.In 2002, the Microsoft founder Bill Gates declared, “Users should be in control of how their data is used.”Three years later, Facebook, through its founder, Mark Zuckerberg, echoed the statement in a note to its campus user base, “We give you control of your information.”Similar statements from countless technology companies have followed in the years since. Over that time, they have said they would like to protect your privacy ...… even as many companies began to collect and display information invasively.Technology companies have also tried to explain all the ways they protect your privacy ...… but the rhetoric was different from reality, where a number of companies experienced hacks and data breaches.Since the early 2000s, companies have argued that despite all the data they collect, you still own it ...… and yet default designs and settings and lax security have long left information vulnerable.Finally, since the advent of concerns about Google and Facebook’s use of personal data for advertising,  companies have pointed out that they don’t sell your data …… and nonetheless many of the companies' business models are predicated on a targeted advertising model that relies on the continued collection of increasingly personal information.It’s been almost 20 years since Google’s first privacy statement. The internet today is a significantly different place, one that’s largely powered by the transmission and transfer of our personal information. Data breaches — some of vertiginous scale — are common, as is the creeping sense that, in order to log on, we’re forced to submit to being tracked and targeted.But if the modern internet has changed greatly, the statements from the multinational corporations that transformed it have remained strikingly similar. The tech companies and their leaders have been saying we should be in charge of our information for 20 years. So why — now, more than ever — does it feel that we aren’t?Charlie Warzel, a New York Times Opinion writer at large, covers technology, media, politics and online extremism. He welcomes your tips and feedback: charlie.warzel@nytimes.com and @cwarzel. Stuart A. Thompson is the graphics director for The New York Times OpinionThe Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email:letters@nytimes.com.Follow @privacyproject on Twitter and The New York Times Opinion Section on Facebook and Instagram.The New York Times is launching an ongoing examination of privacy. We’ll dig into the ideas, history and future of how our information navigates the digital ecosystem and what’s at stake.See all Privacy articlesFrom the NewsroomApril 13, 2019See all Privacy articles

Supported byBy Chris Stanford(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning,We’re covering the aftermath of the arrest of the WikiLeaks founder, a flurry of news from outer space, and Uber’s coming public offering. And it’s Friday, so there’s a new news quiz.The indictment against the WikiLeaks founder that was unsealed on Thursday makes no mention of his website’s role in Russia’s interference in the 2016 election, so it remains unclear whether his arrest will answer lingering questions.Among them is what, if anything, Mr. Assange knew about Guccifer 2.0, a hacker whom U.S. officials have identified as a front for Russian operatives.Mr. Assange, bearded and bedraggled, was dragged from the Ecuadorean Embassy in London, where he had been sheltered since 2012. He was charged in the U.S. with conspiring to hack into a Pentagon computer network, as part of the process that brought WikiLeaks a trove of classified U.S. material in 2010. The narrow indictment was a relief to some of those who feared a case against Mr. Assange could undermine press freedoms. We explained those concerns.Closer look: From his beginnings as a teenage hacker in Australia, Mr. Assange has been a deeply divisive figure. Two of our reporters traced his history.What’s next: Mr. Assange indicated that he would fight extradition, and legal experts said that the process could take years. He is likely to argue that the case is politically motivated.President Omar Hassan al-Bashir lost his 30-year grip on the country on Thursday, after months of street demonstrations.But protesters’ jubilation was tempered by uncertainty about what might replace Mr. al-Bashir, 75. The military said it would lead a two-year transition, with Sudan’s Constitution suspended.Background: Mr. al-Bashir had long played up his humble origins, but even for an autocrat, he had a low reputation in the West. The International Criminal Court has accused him of playing “an essential role” in the genocide in the western region of Darfur in the 2000s. Military officials said today that they had no intention of extraditing Mr. al-Bashir and that he would be tried in Sudan.Quotable: “He’s like the spider at the center of the web — he could pick up on the smallest tremor, then deftly use his personalized political retail skills to manage the politics of the army,” one Sudan expert said.Scott Kelly, who spent 340 days on the International Space Station, experienced genetic mutations and declines in cognitive test scores. NASA reported the findings on Thursday, offering a hint at how space travel affects the body.Mr. Kelly’s twin brother, Mark, himself a former astronaut, underwent identical tests on Earth to provide a comparison. Here are four takeaways from the study.Yesterday: An Israeli moon lander appeared to have crashed. It would have been the first private spacecraft to reach the lunar surface. Separately, SpaceX successfully launched its Falcon Heavy rocket, now the most powerful in the world, for the second time. Another angle: Capturing the first image of a black hole required the work of more than 200 researchers. About 40 were women, and one, Katie Bouman, became a face for the project.Before what’s expected to be the largest initial public offering in years, the ride-hailing service said on Thursday that it had lost $1.8 billion last year, renewing questions about the sustainability of its business. The company’s prospectus also showed a slowdown in revenue growth.The details: Uber’s main rival in North America, Lyft, went public last month and appears to be growing faster. Here’s how the companies stack up.Another angle: The I.P.O., expected next month, could value Uber around $100 billion. Many stand to get rich, although not most of the drivers integral to Uber’s success. “Fortress North America” is a concept that has long comforted military planners in the U.S. and Canada. In the worst case, distance, ocean and ice would offer protection.The ice is now melting. But the cold remains a formidable challenge, as two Times journalists found when they embedded with military forces readying to counter Russia.Plan for “sanctuary cities”: The White House considered releasing apprehended migrants into so-called sanctuary cities represented by Democratic lawmakers, according to people familiar with the proposal. The idea was rejected by the immigration authorities.New charges for Michael Avenatti: Already facing claims of fraud and extortion, the lawyer known for representing the porn star Stormy Daniels was accused by federal prosecutors on Thursday of stealing millions from clients and lying about his income.Ex-Obama aide is indicted: Gregory Craig has been charged with lying to the Justice Department and hiding information about his work for the government of Ukraine.Arrest in church fires: The 21-year-old son of a sheriff’s deputy has been charged after three predominantly black churches in Louisiana were set ablaze.Disney’s streaming service: The company has offered long-awaited details about its plan to fight the tech giants that have moved into the entertainment business. Disney Plus, a subscription video service, will cost $7 a month and arrive on Nov. 12.Perspective: The Department of Energy wants to roll back efficiency standards for light bulbs. The bulb’s inventor, Thomas Edison, wouldn’t approve, two of his great-grandchildren write in an Op-Ed.Snapshot: Above, the funeral procession for the rapper Nipsey Hussle in Los Angeles on Thursday. Thousands of mourners, including Stevie Wonder and Snoop Dogg, gathered for a bittersweet memorial to the local hero, who was fatally shot last month. News quiz: Did you follow the headlines this week? Test yourself.Modern Love: In this week’s column, a woman reaches 50 and decides to donate a kidney, secretly.Late-night comedy: Seth Meyers had some advice for Michael Avenatti: “When you rip people off you gotta play it cool with the money. You’re like the guy who buys a Ferrari and asks for the vanity plate ‘BNK RBBR.’ ” What we’re reading: This essay in The Atlantic. “The writer, Caitlin Flanagan, was once an unhappy college counselor at a private school in Los Angeles,” says Lynda Richardson, an editor for Travel. “She’s uniquely equipped to dissect the parental behavior in the college cheating scandal. Entitlement doesn’t even begin to cover what she finds in the court documents.”Cook: This rainbow sprinkle cake doesn’t need a special occasion.Watch: Alex Ross Perry’s new feature, “Her Smell,” focuses on an all-female band’s lead singer (a raw, charismatic Elisabeth Moss) as she runs off the rails.Listen: The composer George Crumb turns 90 this year. The Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center is presenting two concerts in tribute, but, if you can’t make those, we have a Spotify playlist of his compositions.Read: In “Horizon,” the environmentalist Barry Lopez reconstructs decades’ worth of his observations of the natural world. It’s one of eight new books we recommend.Smarter Living: Your lawn has an environmental impact. To reduce it, try low-maintenance ground cover, like clover, creeping thyme or native plants — but take care to avoid invasive ones. Whatever you plant, avoid pesticides and aerate the soil instead.And we have guidance on how to go paperless on tax records, securely. Want to go to a party tonight? You could say yes, but you could also say “Poyekhali!” (poe-YEK-hoe-lee). That’s “Let’s go!” in Russian.That’s what the cosmonaut Yuri Gagarin radioed to controllers during liftoff for the world’s first human spaceflight, 58 years ago today. The term will be bandied around the world this evening, in Yuri’s Night celebrations.The Soviet Union commemorated the flight by establishing Cosmonautics Day, which has been celebrated since with parades and space-themed events.The hipper Yuri’s Night began in the U.S. in 2000, with raves and parties for scientists. It caught on. The crew of the International Space Station sometimes sends greetings.Parties are planned on at least five continents, including at a research station in Antarctica.Loretta Hidalgo Whitesides, a writer, public speaker and spaceflight proponent who founded Yuri’s Night with her husband, urges partyers to “have a beer with a rocket scientist.”That’s it for this briefing. The weekend is coming (as is the “Game of Thrones” premiere). Enjoy.— ChrisThank youTo Mark Josephson, Eleanor Stanford and James K. Williamson for the break from the news. Andrew Kramer, our Moscow correspondent, wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about Israel’s election, as seen by a young Palestinian.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Fruit sometimes added to salsa (5 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • Dennis Overbye, the cosmos correspondent for The Times, answered readers’ questions on black holes and his life as a science reporter on Reddit. An earlier version of this briefing misstated the name of the rocket that SpaceX tested successfully for the second time on Thursday. It is the Falcon Heavy, not the FalconX.Chris Stanford is the writer of the U.S. edition of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles a weekly news quiz. He was previously a home page producer at The Times. Before 2013, he worked at The Washington Post and other news outlets.  @stanfordc 

Supported byBy Palko KaraszLONDON — A British security researcher who was hailed as a hero for helping to stop a global “ransomware” cyberattack in 2017 has pleaded guilty to charges in the United States of writing malicious software in a separate case.The researcher, Marcus Hutchins, was arrested at the Las Vegas airport in 2017, as he was on his way back to Britain from a conference.“As you may be aware, I’ve pleaded guilty to two charges related to writing malware in the years prior to my career in security,” Mr. Hutchins, known online as MalwareTech, said in a statement on his website on Friday. “I regret these actions and accept full responsibility for my mistakes.”Mr. Hutchins faces up to five years in prison and $250,000 in fines for each of the charges, according to United States court documents.In February, an American judge refused an application from Mr. Hutchins to suppress a statement he made at the Las Vegas Airport after his arrest, when he said he had been intoxicated, the BBC reported.In 2017, a federal grand jury in the United States returned a six-count indictment against Mr. Hutchins. The indictment said Mr. Hutchins, then 23, and an unidentified accomplice conspired to create and sell malware intended to steal login information and other financial data from online banking sites.A version of the program, known as Kronos banking Trojan and created by Mr. Hutchins, was sold by the accomplice for $2,000 in June 2015, the indictment said. But the document did not include details of how widely the malware was used.The government has said it will move to dismiss the remaining charges in exchange for Mr. Hutchins’s guilty plea.The global cyberattack that Mr. Hutchins helped stop disrupted Britain’s National Health Service and hundreds of other organizations worldwide, spreading to more than 70 countries. It used a variant of WannaCry, a piece of malicious software that locks victims out of their systems and demands ransoms. Mr. Hutchins was credited with disabling it.In a blog post at the time, he explained that he had noticed the malicious software trying to contact a particular internet address, discovered the address was unregistered and bought it, which turned out to trigger a “kill switch” in the software.Researchers at Symantec, a security company, attributed the attack at the time to a team of hackers known as the Lazarus Group, which United States intelligence experts say is most likely linked to North Korea. The attack used computer vulnerabilities revealed in documents leaked from America’s National Security Agency.“Having grown up, I’ve since been using the same skills that I misused several years ago for constructive purposes,” Mr. Hutchins said in his statement on Friday about his work as a security researcher. “I will continue to devote my time to keeping people safe from malware attacks,” he added.

Supported byBy Scott Shane, Adam Goldman and Matthew RosenbergWASHINGTON — The 35-page dossier, spiced up with tales of prostitutes and spies, sketched out a hair-raising story more than two years ago. Russian intelligence had used bribery and blackmail to try to turn Donald J. Trump into a source and ally, it said, and the Kremlin was running some Trump campaign aides practically as agents.But the release on Thursday of the report by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, underscored what had grown clearer for months — that while many Trump aides had welcomed contacts with the Russians, some of the most sensational claims in the dossier appeared to be false, and others were impossible to prove. Mr. Mueller’s report contained over a dozen passing references to the document’s claims but no overall assessment of why so much did not check out.Now the dossier — financed by Hillary Clinton’s campaign and the Democratic National Committee, and compiled by the former British intelligence agent Christopher Steele — is likely to face new, possibly harsh scrutiny from multiple inquiries.Republicans in Congress have vowed to investigate. The Justice Department’s inspector general is considering whether the Federal Bureau of Investigation improperly relied on the dossier in applying to the secret Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court for a warrant to eavesdrop on Carter Page, a Trump adviser. The inspector general wants to know what the F.B.I. learned about Mr. Steele’s sources and whether it disclosed any doubts about their veracity to the court.And Attorney General William Barr has said he will review the F.B.I.’s conduct in the Russia investigation. His remark that there was “spying” on the Trump campaign has already encouraged Republican accusations of misconduct.Interviews with people familiar with Mr. Steele’s work on the dossier and the F.B.I.’s scramble to vet its claims suggest that misgivings about its reliability arose not long after the document became public — and a preoccupation of Trump opponents — in early 2017. Mr. Steele has made clear to associates that he always considered the dossier to be raw intelligence — not established facts, but a starting point for further investigation.By January 2017, F.B.I. agents had tracked down and interviewed one of Mr. Steele’s main sources, a Russian speaker from a former Soviet republic who had spent time in the West, according to a Justice Department document and three people familiar with the events, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. After questioning him about where he’d gotten his information, they suspected he might have added his own interpretations to reports passed on by his sources, one of the people said. For the F.B.I., that made it harder to decide what to trust.Agents did not believe that either the source or Mr. Steele was deliberately inventing things, according to the former official. How the dossier ended up loaded with dubious or exaggerated details remains uncertain, but the document may be the result of a high-stakes game of telephone, in which rumors and hearsay were passed from source to source.Another possibility — one that Mr. Steele has not ruled out — could be Russian disinformation. That would mean that in addition to carrying out an effective attack on the Clinton campaign, Russian spymasters hedged their bets and placed a few land mines under Mr. Trump’s presidency as well.Oleg D. Kalugin, a former K.G.B. general who now lives outside Washington, saw that as plausible. “Russia has huge experience in spreading false information,” he said.Mr. Steele declined to comment for this article. But Joshua A. Levy, a lawyer for Fusion GPS, the firm that commissioned the dossier, said the Mueller inquiry substantiated “the core reporting” in the Steele memos — including “that Trump campaign figures were secretly meeting Kremlin figures,” and that Russia’s president, Vladimir V. Putin, had directed “a covert operation to elect Donald J. Trump.”While The New York Times and many other news organizations published little about the document’s unverified claims, social media partisans and television commentators discussed them almost daily over the past two years. The dossier tantalized Mr. Trump’s opponents with a worst-case account of the president’s conduct. And for those trying to make sense of the Trump-Russia saga, the dossier infused the quest for understanding with urgency.In blunt prose, it suggested that a foreign power had fully compromised the man who would become the next president of the United States.The Russians, it asserted, had tried winning over Mr. Trump with real estate deals in Moscow — which he had not taken up — and set him up with prostitutes in a Moscow hotel in 2013, filming the proceedings for future exploitation. A handful of aides were described as conspiring with the Russians at every turn.Mr. Trump, it said, had moles inside the D.N.C. The memos claimed that he and the Kremlin had been exchanging intelligence for eight years and were using Romanian hackers against the Democrats, and that Russian pensioners in the United States were running a covert communications network.Such shocking claims may have seemed more plausible because of the conduct of Mr. Trump and his advisers. He was outspoken in his praise for Mr. Putin and hostile toward NATO. And a dozen associates, including his son Donald Jr., met or corresponded with Russians, including some with suspected intelligence connections, while failing to report the contacts to the F.B.I.Mr. Trump’s former lawyer Michael D. Cohen negotiated for a Trump Tower project in Moscow many months into the campaign — and later admitted lying about it to Congress, along with tax evasion and other crimes. But Mr. Cohen did not, as the dossier claimed, travel to Prague to conspire in the Russian hacking of Democrats, the Mueller report makes clear.Similarly, Mr. Page, a foreign policy adviser, was invited to address a prestigious Moscow institute in July 2016 in what seems to have been a calculated Russian attempt to curry favor. But Mr. Mueller, after a two-year investigation involving roughly 40 F.B.I. agents and other specialists, provided no evidence to support the claim that the adviser had collected a brokerage fee for the sale of a share of the Russian oil giant Rosneft. Nor has any evidence emerged to support the dossier’s claims about D.N.C. moles, Romanian hackers, Russian pensioners — or years of Trump-Putin intelligence trading.Other dossier assertions remain neither proved nor disproved, notably its claim about Mr. Trump’s alleged dalliance with prostitutes. The Mueller report says a Russian businessman texted Mr. Cohen a week before the election to say that he had “stopped the flow of tapes from Russia but not sure if there’s anything else.” The businessman, Giorgi Rtskhiladze, later said he was referring to compromising tapes of Mr. Trump — but had been told they were fake.The dossier began as part of a conventional opposition research operation by a small Washington firm, Fusion GPS. During the early part of the campaign, Fusion was paid by The Washington Free Beacon, a conservative publication funded by the billionaire Paul Singer, to scrutinize Mr. Trump, with the evident goal of uncovering dirt to help his Republican primary opponents.After Mr. Trump emerged as the likely nominee, Fusion kept working but turned to a new source of funding: the law firm representing the Clinton campaign, Perkins Coie. Noticing in May 2016 the Trump campaign’s unexpected affinity for Russia, Fusion hired Mr. Steele, a veteran of Britain’s MI6 intelligence agency, to dig deeper. Mr. Steele has told acquaintances that he did not know the ultimate client was the Clinton campaign.Former F.B.I. and Central Intelligence Agency officers who knew him respected Mr. Steele, who had served in Moscow before leading the Russia desk at MI6’s headquarters. After leaving government service, he had helped the F.B.I. with an investigation of FIFA, the international governing body of soccer, and with other matters involving Russia.Mr. Steele, who co-owns a private intelligence firm in London, Orbis Business Intelligence, reached out to sources he had relied on in past Russia-related investigations. Between June and December 2016, he sent Fusion at least 17 reports, ranging from one to three pages, describing raw, unconfirmed information on a wide range of alleged connections between Mr. Trump, his aides and Russian operatives.Mr. Steele decided early on that what he was hearing posed a grave danger to the United States. He alerted an F.B.I. agent he knew well, and on Sept. 19, 2016, his reports reached the team in Washington that had started investigating Trump-Russia connections nearly two months earlier.The F.B.I. assembled a group of analysts to check every line of Mr. Steele’s short memos. Agents hit the streets to find and interview his sources, eventually identifying and speaking with at least two.By summer 2017, with Mr. Mueller’s investigation in high gear, the F.B.I. still could not vouch for much of the dossier. One often-discussed claim — the detailed account of Mr. Cohen’s supposed trip to Prague — appeared to be false. Mr. Cohen’s financial records and C.I.A. queries to foreign intelligence services revealed nothing to support it.F.B.I. agents on Mr. Mueller’s team debriefed Mr. Steele himself in London for two days in September 2017, according to a person familiar with the meeting.Last year, in a deposition in a lawsuit filed against Buzzfeed, Mr. Steele emphasized that his reports consisted of unverified intelligence. Asked whether he took into account that some claims might be Russian fabrications, he replied, “Yes.”F.B.I. agents considered whether Russia had polluted the stream of intelligence, but did not give it much credence, according to the former official.But that is an issue to which multiple inquiries are likely to return. There has been much chatter among intelligence experts that Mr. Steele’s Russian informants could have been pressured to feed him disinformation.Daniel Hoffman, a former C.I.A. officer who served in Moscow, said he had long suspected the dossier was contaminated by Russian fabrications. The goal, he said, would be to deepen American divisions and blur the line between truth and falsehood.“How many times have hearings on Capitol Hill used information from the dossier?” Mr. Hoffman said. “How much damage has it already caused?”

Supported byBy Steven Erlanger and Nicholas CaseyThe spectacle of Julian Assange, bearded and haggard, resisting arrest while London police officers dragged him through the street, punctuated the end of seven confounding years inside the Ecuadorean Embassy, where he lived with his cat in a small corner room as the world’s most famous self-proclaimed political refugee.Mr. Assange, 47, has long fashioned himself as a crusader for revealing secrets. The internet group he founded, WikiLeaks, published caches of classified American government communications, as well as emails hacked by Russian intelligence clearly intended to damage the presidential candidacy of Hillary Clinton.Though arrested Thursday morning by the British for skipping bail, Mr. Assange was immediately charged in the United States for conspiracy to hack a government computer.To supporters, Mr. Assange was a martyr and champion of free speech. To the United States government, he was a pariah and a  lackey of the Kremlin. But it was the hardened opinion of Ecuador’s government that perhaps mattered most.He had become an unwanted houseguest.At the tiny red-brick embassy, he continued to run his internet group, conducted news conferences before hundreds of fawning admirers from a balcony, rode his skateboard in the halls, and played host to a parade of visitors, including Lady Gaga and Pamela Anderson, a rumored lover who brought vegan sandwiches.On Thursday, Ms. Anderson sent out a batch of Twitter messages attacking the arrest as a “vile injustice” and called Britain and the United States “devils and liars and thieves.”In interviews with The New York Times in 2016, as part of a long look at his ties to Russia, Mr. Assange denied any link to Russian intelligence, in particular regarding the leaked Democratic emails. Mrs. Clinton and the Democrats were “whipping up a neo-McCarthyist hysteria about Russia,” he said. There is “no concrete evidence” that what WikiLeaks publishes comes from intelligence agencies, he said, even as he indicated that he would happily accept such material.Small as they were, Mr. Assange’s living quarters at the embassy, close to the lavish self-indulgence of Harrods, the famous department store, did not cramp his desire to remain in the limelight.Mr. Assange had an office equipped with a bed, sunlamp, phone, computer, kitchenette, shower, treadmill and bookshelves. Three years ago, one person familiar with the setup called it “a gas station with two attendants.”Vaughan Smith, who had been a longtime supporter of Mr. Assange and helped put up his bail money, said that “Julian’s a big bloke, with big bones, and he fills the room physically and intellectually.”“It’s a tiny embassy with a tiny balcony,” he added, “small, hot and with not great air flow, and it must be jolly difficult for everyone there.”But from there, Mr. Assange for years held court for admirers and famous curiosity seekers, among them the soccer star Eric Cantona, and Nigel Farage, the pro-Brexit radio host and former head of U.K. Independence Party.Still, Mr. Assange’s isolation was wearing on him, a friend said on Thursday, especially the long, lonely weekends in an essentially empty embassy he could not leave.Even his friends have described him as difficult, a narcissist with an outsized view of his importance and a disinterest in mundane matters like personal hygiene.He was becoming deeply depressed and wondered about simply walking out, the friend said, speaking on condition of anonymity. And relations with his hosts were becoming deeply strained, even adversarial.A copy of a 2014 letter from Juan Falconí Puig, then Ecuador’s ambassador to Britain, to the Foreign Ministry, seen by The New York Times, outlined the growing resentment between the diplomats and Mr. Assange over his behavior at the embassy.Among Mr. Falconí’s top concerns was Mr. Assange’s penchant for riding a skateboard and playing soccer with visitors. His skateboarding, Mr. Falconí said, had “damaged floors, walls and doors.”The ambassador said the soccer games had destroyed embassy equipment. When an embassy security agent stopped the game and took away the ball, Mr. Assange “began to shake, insult and push the agent,” reclaimed the ball and then “launched the ball at his body.”The letter said Mr. Assange had invited a television reporter to interview them at the embassy and had showed the visitor off-limits parts of the building.At one point, according to the letter, Mr. Assange used the alarm setting on a megaphone “to attract the police” to record them for the show.“This last action, in the middle of the night, was a clear attempt to annoy the police,” Mr. Falconí wrote.Another time, the letter said, Mr. Assange “violently hit the embassy control room door” demanding in a “threatening manner” that one of the guards come out to speak to him.The guards came out, only to be harassed by Mr. Assange, who yelled and shoved them, Mr. Falconí wrote.Mr. Assange’s long presence in the embassy, long after the Ecuadorean president who granted him political asylum had been replaced, finally became too much for the Ecuadorean government. President Lenin Moreno, elected in 2017, explained the decision on Twitter and in a video.“In a sovereign decision Ecuador withdrew the asylum status to Julian Assange after his repeated violations to international conventions and daily-life protocols,” he said.He accused Mr. Assange of having installed forbidden “electronic and distortion equipment,” accessing the embassy’s security files without permission, blocking the embassy’s security cameras and mistreating its personnel, including guards.In March of last year, the Ecuadorean government severed his internet access, saying that he had violated an agreement to stop commenting on, or trying to influence, the politics of other countries.The government also limited his visitors and required him to clean his bathroom and look after his cat. Mr. Assange then sued the Ecuadorean government in October, claiming that it was violating his rights.He hired the Spanish human rights jurist, Baltasar Garzón, who filed suit against the Ecuadorean government in its own courts, saying Mr. Assange’s rights were violated. He also filed a second complaint with the Inter-American Human Rights Commission, an international body that mediates rights issues.Both cases were rejected by officials, and further angered Mr. Moreno’s government.A recent leak of papers last month related to Mr. Moreno, which the government blamed on WikiLeaks, further angered officials before Mr. Assange’s eviction. The vast trove of emails, text messages and photos were known in Ecuador as the INA papers, named after a company linked to the president’s brother.The leaked papers, first published by an independent Ecuadorean news site, described an extravagant life of the president and his family that included lavish dinners, expensive watches and trips around the world.They included text messages between the president’s wife telling friends about family trips to Switzerland and New York and private pictures of Mr. Moreno, including one of him in a hotel room bed with a lobster meal. WikiLeaks denied involvement in the leaks, though it promoted the story on its Twitter site.Days later, Mr. Moreno said that Mr. Assange had “repeatedly violated” the terms of his asylum and that Mr. Assange could not “hack private accounts or phones.”“Finally,” Mr. Moreno said in his statement announcing the withdrawal of asylum, “two days ago, WikiLeaks, Mr. Assange’s allied organization, threatened the government of Ecuador. My government has nothing to fear and does not act under threats.”Mr. Moreno appeared to be referring to an effort by WikiLeaks to reveal the scale of surveillance of Mr. Assange within the embassy.The editor in chief of WikiLeaks, Kristinn Hrafnsson, charged in a news conference this week that there had been “extensive spying” on Mr. Assange, and that Ecuador was part of a plot to extradite him to the United States.“What we have established is security has monitored his every move and every meeting with visitors,” Mr. Hrafnsson said. “We also know there was a request to hand over visit logs and video recordings from within the embassy.”“We believe this has been handed over to the Trump administration,” Mr. Hrafnsson added.Mr. Hrafnsson also charged that the spying was part of a 3 million-euro extortion plot against Mr. Assange involving sex tapes.The British police arrested Mr. Assange on Thursday on charges that he had jumped bail after his initial arrest in 2010 on a Swedish warrant.The Swedes had wanted to question Mr. Assange on allegations of sexual misconduct and rape; in June 2012, Mr. Assange, even then fearing extradition to the United States, left his backers to lose their bail money while he successfully sought political asylum in the Ecuadorean Embassy.Only in May 2017, after many attempts to secure Mr. Assange and finally interview him on those charges, did Sweden give up and drop its arrest warrant.Mr. Assange also gradually offended some of his early supporters, like Edward Snowden and the heiress Jemima Goldsmith Khan. He suffered from vitamin D deficiency, dental problems and depression. For some, he became a sort of joke, and many mocked his fear of extradition.But there were times when thousands of supporters cheered Mr. Assange’s work and what many considered his martyrdom in the name of individual rights and internet freedom. Hundreds would sometimes gather outside the embassy, to hear Mr. Assange address them from that tiny balcony.British police officers arrived Thursday about 9:15 a.m. at the embassy, where the ambassador offered to serve Mr. Assange documentation revoking his asylum. He didn’t go easily.He resisted arrest and had to be restrained by officers, who struggled to handcuff him and received assistance from officers outside the embassy.“This is unlawful, I’m not leaving,” he told them, according to the account given at the Westminster Magistrates Court, where Mr. Assange later appeared, his silver hair tied in a bun, his tight lips visible behind a long, white beard, and looking composed in a navy suit.Outside the court, a flock of cameras were pointing toward the guarded entrance, and a group of protesters chanted feebly “Free, free, free Assange.”After Mr. Assange took his seat in court, a supporter wearing a scruffy fluorescent jacket gave him an enthusiastic thumbs-up from the public gallery.Mr. Assange turned his head clinically toward the gallery, raised his arm, and returned the gesture.While awaiting the lawyers to enter, Mr. Assange read from a book, which he raised for the media to see: “History of the National Security State,” by Gore Vidal.Reporting was contributed by Palko Karasz, Iliana Magra and José María León Cabrera.

Supported byBy Kaly SotoWelcome to the weekend. Sometimes news is more than informative, it’s awe-inspiring. A case in point, this week we saw the first image of a black hole. We also learned what space does to the human body. There were other developments, too. Here are some great reads, in case you missed them.____From his beginnings as a teenage hacker in Australia to his arrest this week in London, the WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange has been a deeply divisive figure.____The rise of Candida auris embodies a serious and growing public health threat: drug-resistant germs.____After a woman fell to her death during a raid on a Queens massage parlor, her brother conducted his own investigation. He’s now returning to China with her ashes.[Also read: “The Case of Jane Doe Ponytail”]____Astronomers at last have captured a picture of one of the most secretive entities in the cosmos.[Also read: “Scott Kelly Spent a Year Taking Photos in Space. They’re Beautiful.”]____Over 30 years, he forged a maze of security agencies and militias to bind his often ruthless rule. But he was undone in a middle-class revolt over the economy.[Also read: “Omar Hassan al-Bashir Is Removed as Sudan’s President”]____Answers to everything you ever wanted to know — and some things you didn’t.____About 450,000 government-subsidized households are in flood plains, a risk that is growing more urgent in the era of climate change.____The inaugural class of third and fourth graders at the school have posted extraordinary results on its first set of test scores.____A new train from the Ethiopian capital to the Djibouti coast offers a desert journey into parts of East Africa that have been off the tourist track.____Companies and governments are gaining new powers to follow people across the internet and around the world, and even to peer into their genomes, putting the boundaries of privacy in dispute. Citizens, politicians and business leaders are asking if societies are making the wisest trade-offs.____If you are counting down to the Season 8 premiere, this guide has it all. Favorites to win “Game of Thrones,” recaps from previous seasons, previous coverage of the show and more.Follow me on Twitter (kalyTsoto) for more great reads.

Supported byA racetrack veteran compares the Self Racing Cars contest in California to hot-rod modders of old: “This event, with its hackers, tinkerers and engineers, is just like that.”By Bradley BermanPhotographs and Video by Aaron WojackWILLOWS, Calif. — Faraz Khan’s all-electric Kia Soul is his workaday car, but on a drizzly weekend last month, he and his teammate, Jose Rojas, were hoping it would drive them to a racing milestone.So they squeezed on safety helmets, booted up their laptops and inched toward the west track of Thunderhill Raceway in rural Willows. Poised behind the wheel at the starting line, Mr. Khan stared into a laptop balanced on his partner’s knees. “In theory, this should work,” he said. “Although it might be an embarrassment.” The two men laughed off their nerves as Mr. Rojas initiated the car’s homegrown autonomous controls.Mr. Khan and Mr. Rojas, both software engineers, have been using evenings and weekends since last fall to hack the Kia. They are among a loose-knit community of perhaps 50 independent hobbyist-engineers who — for fun and the sake of learning — rip open vehicle dashboards and splice essential wires to turn cars into robots. “The bar is high. You need to get a car, and then you need to really mess with it,” Mr. Khan said with another laugh. “Most people aren’t comfortable with that.”This 2.1-mile serpentine course usually rumbles with Porsches, Mazda roadsters and heaps of American muscle. In late March, however, the paddock hummed with mild-mannered hybrid and electric cars. Several dozen gear heads of a different stripe were here for the fourth installment of Self Racing Cars — an annual open-track event for autonomous vehicles to race against the clock.The auto industry is in the middle of its biggest technology shift in a century, with untold fortunes to be made — eventually. But for now, the promise of self-driving cars often outpaces the reality. This competition in Northern California suggests that it might be easier to let the cars run before they can walk. The racetrack strips away all of the distractions, variables and traffic of street driving and lets the rubber meet the road.Self Racing Cars is the brainchild of Joshua Schachter, a Silicon Valley entrepreneur and an amateur racecar driver. Mr. Schachter hasn’t hacked his personal vehicle but gets a kick out of turning everyday objects, like shopping carts, Etch-a-Sketch toys and water droppers, into improbable robots.A month before the event, he explained that Self Racing Cars was an extension of his interests. “I want to see other people’s solutions to a problem,” he said. “And to learn about problems that I didn’t know existed.”Mr. Khan and Mr. Rojas named their project OpenCaret, and they use laptops and Arduino boards — an open-source microcontroller platform — to trick the car into working as if it were being driven by a person. Mr. Khan mounted a $50 camera on the dashboard to provide vision.Two weeks before the race, in an abandoned Sears parking lot near Mr. Khan’s home, they allowed me to “drive” from the passenger’s seat using a Microsoft Xbox controller. It was a video game come to life. Mr. Khan’s foot hovered over the brake pedal in case my thumb steered off course.Mr. Schachter knows that automated driving is a dangerous challenge on real streets, even for the big names. His event boils it down: Who can log the fastest lap?To transform the track into an engineering laboratory, Mr. Schachter enlisted the help of experienced racing officials. “When Joshua asked me to be a part it, I didn’t hesitate,” said Terry Geiser, who over decades has overseen millions of miles of racing at Northern California’s famed motorsports venues, like Laguna Seca and Sonoma Raceway. He’s the track coordinator and safety engineer for Self Racing Cars.“In 1950, you couldn’t buy a hot rod and take it to a drag strip,” said Mr. Geiser, a retired management consultant. “You had to build it yourself.” He explained the camaraderie shared by old-school car guys — his generation favored British roadsters in the 1960s — who compared notes about better ways to tune an engine or modify an exhaust system. “This event, with its hackers, tinkerers and engineers, is just like that for me,” he said.On their first run, Mr. Khan’s Kia Soul barely made it through the first of Thunderhill’s twists and turns before the steering wheel swung all the way right, all the way left and back, in a loop. He pulled the plug and drove the Kia back to the paddock.Mr. Geiser’s voice then boomed over the loudspeaker: “Humans, you’re up next.”During long pauses in track activity, while coders squash bugs, the course is opened to vehicles driven by red-blooded drivers. Mr. Schachter invited me for a ride in his bright-orange 1992 racing-spec Mazda Miata. It’s entirely manual — no anti-lock brakes and definitely no Xbox controllers.Mr. Schachter precisely maneuvered around the course, flicking the gear-shifter and slamming the brakes before corners. The tail whipped around, and we were on the straightaway approaching 100 miles an hour. How could software and sensors ever compete against a driver’s eyes, hands and firing synapses?On this day of intermittent rain and sun, a five-foot triangular patch of concrete coming off the course’s third turn had a puddle. With each lap, Mr. Schachter refined his approach to the wet spot, adjusting his speed and steering into the skid. “You have to feel it with your hands,” he said.Three years ago, at the first Self Racing Cars event, Audi showed an autonomous sports-sedan prototype. Chris Urmson, a former chief technology officer for Google’s self-driving car company, which eventually became Waymo, was on hand. Other industry luminaries mingled.By contrast, this year’s competition was more like a home-brew computer club. Only four teams, mostly small independent projects, competed.A Tesla Model X joined in. It wasn’t an official entrant but belongs to Andrew Navarro, one of the half-dozen members of Team Soulless, another competitor. Mr. Navarro is a systems engineer and a former Army National Guard aviation officer. He now works at Polysync, a company in Portland, Ore., that makes hardware and software to help companies digitally control steering, brake and throttle controls for development and testing. Polysync lent its silver Kia Niro hybrid to his team.Mr. Navarro is a big fan of Tesla’s Autopilot technology. “As far as vehicles that have lane-keeping and adaptive cruise control, it’s the best around,” he said. But he’s quick to point out that a driver must monitor the Autopilot at all times.For the first couple of turns, the Model X S.U.V. wouldn’t let Mr. Navarro engage Autopilot. The vision system, assisted by radar and ultrasonics, is not designed for a track, so the vehicle couldn’t find the lane markings and other highway objects it expected to see. Autopilot finally engaged, but the vehicle got too close to the track’s edge and quit.If Tesla’s Autopilot couldn’t make it, there wasn’t much hope for Mr. Khan and Mr. Rojas from OpenCaret, the students from Team Soulless or Qibus (a three-week-old company creating remote vehicle-control systems). AEye, an artificial perception outfit, also tested its sensor technology at the track.But lo and behold, a red Lexus CT 200h hybrid hatchback fielded by Point One Navigation was zipping around the track on its own. (All teams must put an engineer behind the wheel ready to take over in a split second.)Aaron Nathan, chief executive for Point One, feels the pain of his competitors. Three years ago, Point One attended as a new company with four people. Now it has 14 employees and is marketing its software to major automakers.“In the beginning, we came just to meet people and talk shop,” Mr. Nathan said. “It was much more like a track day, so people were not reserved like at a trade show.”Mr. Nathan and his co-founder, Bryan Galusha, both have advanced engineering degrees from Cornell. The university participated in the 2000s in the Darpa challenge, an autonomous-vehicle prize competition sponsored by the Defense Department. “I’m very familiar with what it takes to build something that works at Darpa,” Mr. Nathan said. “I feel like Self Racing Cars is the closest thing we have to that now.”Autonomous technology faces many hurdles. Point One focuses on a single critical element: knowing precisely where the vehicle is on the road. The cornerstone of its system is stationary GPS monitoring devices dispersed across the country. Just one will cover a city the size of San Francisco. The white boxes are about the size of a loaf of bread and have an antenna attached. They analyze errors in satellite communications caused by atmospheric interference — and beam the corrections to the vehicle via a cell signal. The technology can pinpoint a car’s location down to half a tire’s worth of precision. It works even in tunnels and other locations that traditional GPS can’t reach. “We do a lot of math,” Mr. Nathan said.To plot the Lexus’ fastest racing line, Mr. Galusha, the company’s chief operating officer and an amateur racer, first drove his 2005 Mitsubishi Lancer Evolution at Thunderhill West. Point One precisely recorded the Mitsubishi’s line. This route was then transferred to the Lexus, allowing it to race around the track at up to 70 m.p.h.Two years ago, the company managed a lap in 3 minutes 38 seconds. After sitting out last year, Point One returned last month with a performance of 2 minutes 6 seconds, an event record. That was only 20 seconds slower than Mr. Galusha’s fastest lap in the Lexus. The company’s navigation algorithms performed reliably for 10 nearly identical laps over the weekend.Point One was the only team this year to complete an autonomous lap. But the advantage of its technology would disappear with multiple cars racing at once. Mr. Schachter is considering that proposition.“The essence of racing is dealing with a changing situation,” he said. “I was thinking next year about throwing a tire into the track.”

Supported byBy Charlie SavageWASHINGTON — Investigators for the special counsel spent months trying to get answers from President Trump: what he knew about a meeting between senior campaign aides and Russians; about changes to the Republican Party platform making it more Russia-friendly; about his associates’ outreach to WikiLeaks as it prepared to publish Democratic emails stolen by Russian hackers.After months of resistance, his lawyers finally turned over written answers in November to those questions and others. But the public has not seen them.Now, the question of whether they become part of the available history of Russia’s 2016 election interference and its aftermath — along with whatever else the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, may have gathered — turns on Attorney General William P. Barr. Since Mr. Mueller submitted a nearly 400-page report on his investigation two weeks ago, Mr. Barr, his aides and other law enforcement officials have been reviewing it to determine which portions to provide to lawmakers and the public — and what to black out.Democrats in Congress, who have demanded to see the entire document, have expressed growing impatience with Mr. Barr. And members of Mr. Mueller’s team have told associates that Mr. Barr failed to adequately convey findings that were damaging to Mr. Trump in a letter he sent to Congress two weeks ago laying out their chief conclusions.Mr. Barr has promised to give lawmakers — by mid-April, “if not sooner” — as much of the report as possible, subject to several categories of necessary deletions. But much will turn on how expansively or narrowly he interprets those categories.The first category that Mr. Barr planned to black out is secret grand jury information. A federal rule of criminal procedure generally forbids disclosure of such material, like citing a witness’s testimony before the jury or a disclosing that a document was obtained with a grand jury subpoena.Notably, however, for the investigation into whether Mr. Trump obstructed justice, the special counsel gathered information from witnesses primarily through F.B.I. interviews, according to lawyers familiar with the inquiry.Mr. Barr could share grand jury information with Congress if a judge issues an order permitting it, as happened in 1974 during the Watergate scandal. But it is not clear whether the Trump administration’s Justice Department would consent or instead fight any request by lawmakers to see the grand jury material. Nor is it clear that such a ruling would extend to letting the public see that material.It is also not clear whether a key difference from 1974 — the House Judiciary Committee had already opened an impeachment inquiry against President Richard M. Nixon, but none are pending against Mr. Trump — would change the outcome. On Friday, the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia, in an unrelated case, adopted a narrow reading of when courts may authorize the disclosure of grand-jury information and criticized the legal basis for the Watergate precedent, but stopped short of overturning it.Still, Samuel W. Buell, a Duke University law professor and former prosecutor, said the House should ask a judge to intervene.“There is going to be an awful lot of redaction, and the question becomes, ‘What is Congress going to do about that?’” he said. “It seems to me that they can and should go to court. It’s not up to the Justice Department to make the final decision about what Congress sees.”The second category Mr. Barr has identified for redaction is “material the intelligence community identifies as potentially compromising sensitive sources and methods.”Mr. Mueller has already disclosed some elements of his findings in the indictments of Russians for their clandestine manipulations of American social media and their hacking of Democratic emails. But it is virtually certain that Mr. Mueller learned more than what was on display in those court filings — including information whose disclosure could reveal secret American intelligence sources about the Russian government’s inner workings.While all members of Congress have security clearances, Mr. Barr may decide that to reduce the possibility of leaks, certain findings from Mr. Mueller’s investigation can be told only to the intelligence committees, or even just the Gang of Eight, the top congressional leaders and the leaders of the intelligence panels.The third category Mr. Barr has said will be off limits to Congress is “material that could affect other ongoing matters, including those that the special counsel has referred to other department offices.”In the course of his investigation, Mr. Mueller uncovered information about potential crimes that fell outside his core mandate and handed that evidence to other federal prosecutors. The Southern District of New York, for example, handled the prosecution of Michael D. Cohen, Mr. Trump’s former lawyer, for campaign finance and other crimes. That district is also now looking at the Trump inauguration committee’s finances, aspects of which the special counsel’s office previously scrutinized.The special counsel also developed cases that are not yet resolved, including the indictment in Washington of Roger J. Stone Jr., Mr. Trump’s longtime associate and adviser, as well as a dispute over a subpoena with an unidentified foreign-owned corporation.And there is something of a wild card: The F.B.I. has an open-ended counterintelligence investigation into Russia.The fourth category Mr. Barr has said he will redact is “information that would unduly infringe on the personal privacy and reputational interests of peripheral third parties.”The Justice Department traditionally does not make public unflattering information about people whom prosecutors scrutinized but decided not to charge with a crime. By focusing on “peripheral” people, Mr. Barr has indicated that some people are so central to the investigation — presumably including Mr. Trump himself — that he may make an exception and allow more abundant material to go to Congress and become public. But much may depend on his decisions about who counts as central and who counts as a bit player.There are several types of privilege that could come into play. One is executive privilege, a power of presidents to keep secret from Congress certain internal executive branch information, like communications involving the president or his close advisers and, sometimes, internal agency deliberations. Another is attorney-client privilege, the power to keep secret a client’s discussions with his lawyer.Mr. Trump permitted his aides and legal advisers who might fall under one or both of those privileges, like the former White House counsel Donald F. McGahn II, to speak to Mr. Mueller’s team. But it is not clear whether that waiver would extend to sharing information with Congress, and there are few court precedents to define the limits of that secrecy power.Mr. Barr has told Congress, “Although the president would have the right to assert privilege over certain parts of the report, he has stated publicly that he intends to defer to me and, accordingly, there are no plans to submit the report to the White House for a privilege review.” But what he meant is ambiguous, and the Justice Department has declined to provide clarity.Katie Benner contributed reporting.



      By CHRIS STANFORD

APRIL 12, 2019

Did you stay up to date this week? Take our quiz to find out.

Last week, the question about the woman from China who was arrested carrying a malware-infected device had the highest share of correct answers, with 97 percent. Only 40 percent knew what the Japanese word “reiwa” referred to.

The news quiz is published on Friday mornings. Click here for other weeks’ quizzes.
We’ll start this week with an easy one. The image above is of what?An artist’s interpretation of BrexitA black holeA promotion for Facebook’s new logoThe last thing my mother took a picture of with her iPhoneThe WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange was arrested in London to face a charge in the U.S. of conspiring to hack into a Pentagon computer network in 2010.He had been living in the embassy of which country, which had sheltered him since 2012?CanadaEcuadorPeruSwitzerlandPresident Omar Hassan al-Bashir, the authoritarian leader who is wanted on genocide charges, was ousted after months of mass protests ended his grip on which country?AlgeriaKenyaSudanUgandaPresident Trump named Kevin McAleenan the acting head of which federal agency?Department of Homeland SecurityImmigration and Customs EnforcementOffice of Management and BudgetSecret ServicePrime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel appeared likely to remain in power after a parliamentary election, and is poised to become the country’s longest-serving prime minister.He leads which party?Blue and WhiteLabourLikudShasThe mayor of which U.S. city declared a public health emergency this week in an effort to contain the spread of measles?ChicagoNew YorkPortland, Ore.SeattleThe U.S. designated part of which country’s military as a foreign terrorist organization?IranNorth KoreaRussiaVenezuelaThe European Union agreed to extend the deadline for Britain’s withdrawal from the bloc, which had been scheduled for Friday.The new deadline falls on the same day as which celebration?HalloweenGuy Fawkes NightNew Year’s EveApril Fools’ DayThe hip-hop artist Lil Nas X released a new version of his viral hit “Old Town Road” after Billboard removed a previous version from its Hot Country Songs chart, saying the song  “does not embrace enough elements of today’s country music.”The new version of the song features which 1990s country star?Garth BrooksBilly Ray CyrusWynonna JuddTrisha YearwoodWhich team won the N.C.A.A. women’s basketball championship?BaylorConnecticutNotre DameOregon

Supported byBy Christopher MeleA man suspected of being a rhino poacher was killed last week by an elephant and his remains devoured by a pride of lions at a South African park, officials said.Rangers at Kruger National Park and other searchers found only a human skull and a pair of pants, the park said in a statement on Friday.Four of the dead man’s accomplices were arrested, the authorities said.The man’s accomplices told his relatives that they had been in the park to poach rhinos on Tuesday night when he was killed by an elephant, local officials said.A search party, including rangers on foot and members of the park’s air wing, searched the area that was described by the family but could not find the body because light was fading, the statement said. Searchers found the remains on Thursday morning.The managing executive of the park, Glenn Phillips, offered his condolences to the family of the dead man, who was not identified.“Entering Kruger National Park illegally and on foot is not wise,” he said in the statement. “It holds many dangers and this incident is evidence of that.”Mr. Phillips said it was sad to see the daughters of the man “mourning the loss of their father, and worse still, only being able to recover very little of his remains.”Kruger National Park advertises itself as offering “an African safari adventure of a lifetime.” At nearly two million hectares, it is the largest national reserve in South Africa, according to its website, which added that it was home to animals such as lions, elephants, rhinoceroses, leopards and African buffaloes.Last July, rangers and police officers said that as many as three men suspected of being rhino poachers had been killed by lions at a South African game preserve.Rhino horn is worth about $9,000 per pound in Asia, driving a lucrative and illicit trade. It is a prized ingredient in traditional Chinese medicine and is considered a status symbol.“It’s one of the most expensive wildlife products on the illegal market and that’s why these poachers go after it,” Michael Slattery, founder of the Texas Christian University Rhino Initiative, said on Sunday. “The current prices for a rhino horn are anywhere from $15,000 to $50,000 a kilogram. They are seeing dollar signs. It is more expensive than gold and cocaine, so the demand is driving these poachers.”South Africa is home to about 20,000 wild rhinos, more than 80 percent of the world’s population. About one-third of the animals are owned by private breeders.Since 2008, more than 7,000 rhinos have been hunted illegally, with 1,028 killed in 2017, according to the South African Department of Environmental Affairs.The poachers can get more money if they can deliver a complete rhino horn, but to get a full rhino horn they have to kill the animal, Professor Slattery said. Poachers drug the rhinos and then use a machete to “hack away at the face,” he said. The rhinos then bleed to death.A rhino horn, which is made of 100 percent keratin, or the equivalent of compressed hair, provides no health benefits to humans.Still, people grind up the horn and use it in a drink in a misguided effort to reduce fevers and cure hangovers, among other things. Rhino horns are also given as gifts, Professor Slattery said.“That equation pretty quickly tips over to these animals disappearing before our eyes,” he said.Sandra E. Garcia contributed reporting.

Supported byWhat to CookBy Sam SiftonGood morning. “Some idiotic things are well worth doing,” Richard Ford wrote in “Independence Day,” and I hold the quotation close to my heart every time I make another batch of kombucha or feed the sourdough starter I keep in the fridge against the dream that I’ll make a huge batch of pizza dough soon, if not next weekend then the one after that.Another example: Weeknight soups, like this Susan Spungen recipe for French onion soup with porcini mushrooms (above). I might make that tonight after work and eat dinner a lot later than usual because it takes a while. Which means I’ll get to sleep late, screw up the start of the week’s circadian rhythm, wake up flustered, in a rush, 30 minutes past the usual time. I’ll smile all the same, in memory of the dinner just past, how sweet-savory and rich it was, how perfect.Alternatively, there’s this tarte flambée that Melissa Clark wrote up for her amazing deep-dive recipe collection for The Times, “The New Essentials of French Cooking.”Or you could make caramelized scallions deep into the evening, in advance of using them on a big bowl of noodles as if you lived in the house of Francis Lam.Later this week, you might give this no-recipe recipe for pasta amatriciana a shot. You could stop by a farmers’ market for some early asparagus, then cook it some way that gives you joy.I love Jacques Pepin’s recipe for chicken in mustard sauce — though I make it with thighs, not breasts — served over egg noodles, with a lot of chopped parsley. Likewise Kim Severson’s Southern-accented take on shrimp scampi, which pairs best with a sauvignon blanc and a big heel of bread.Or if you really just can’t be bothered, it’s Monday, you’re looking at packaged noodles and water from the tap? Try Julia Moskin’s ramen carbonara. What a hack! So great.Many, many thousands more recipes to cook this week are waiting to meet you on NYT Cooking. (You need a subscription to access them, yes, just as you’ll need one to watch “Game of Thrones.”) Go plan your Easter menu. Get ready for Passover.And check us out on Instagram, Twitter and Facebook, for yet more cooking ideas. You can write us directly if anything goes wrong with your cooking or our technology: cookingcare@nytimes.com. We’ll get back to you. Or you can write me: foodeditor@nytimes.com. I’ll try.Now, it has absolutely nothing to do with groceries or copper pots, but you have got to read Caitlin Flanagan in The Atlantic, writing about “the horrible, horrible private-school parents of Los Angeles.”Meet Anna, 65 feet, a really big daysailer.Here’s Lois Beckett on racism and the culture of romance fiction, in The Guardian. It’s an amazing read.Finally, here’s a new one from Beck and Cage the Elephant, “Night Running.” Play loud and have a great week.cookingcooking



      By KEITH WILLIAMS

APRIL 1, 2019

Test your knowledge of famous jokes, hoaxes and pranks. Are any of these questions made up? Of course not! This is The New York Times.
Ever been pranked? Or are you the prankster? Test your knowledge of some of the most famous pranks and jokes that have happened over the years.The National Park Service received hundreds of calls from outraged Americans in 1996 after what fast-food chain announced it had purchased a relic located in Philadelphia’s Independence National Historical Park?Arby’sMcDonald’sTaco BellAt the 1984 Rose Bowl, students from what college hacked the scoreboard to show their school beating M.I.T., 38-9?CaltechStanfordU.C.L.A.In 1992, N.P.R.’s “Talk of the Nation” shared a supposed clip of what politician announcing he would run for president, saying, “I never did anything wrong, and I won’t do it again”?Spiro AgnewJoe Biden Richard NixonWhat name was given to the 1943 ploy to fool the Nazis into believing Allied forces were planning an invasion of Greece?Operation AvalancheOperation MincemeatOperation ZombieRihanna, Britney Spears and Miley Cyrus have all given late-late-night performances in what late-night host’s bedroom — gaining entry with the assistance of the comedian’s wife?James CordenJimmy FallonJimmy KimmelA fake news story in 1998 created a stir when it announced that what state legislature had voted to legally change the value of pi (roughly 3.14159) to 3.0, with the bill’s sponsor pointing to the Bible as proof?AlabamaIndianaUtahIn 1969, Rolling Stone magazine announced that some musicians, including Bob Dylan, Mick Jagger, John Lennon and Paul McCartney, had formed a “supergroup” named what?Bigger Than JesusThe Main Street ExilesThe Masked MaraudersWith a name meaning “rubbish” or “weakling” in local parlance, Cacareco topped the field of more than 500 candidates in the 1959 City Council elections in São Paulo, Brazil. She was disqualified, however, on account of being what species of animal?GorillaPigRhinocerosWearing a prosthetic nose and chin, what hitmaker dressed up as a nanny named Jenny in 2015 to impersonate herself in an audition?AdeleJanelle MonáeDolly PartonWhen the former NASA engineer Mark Rober created a “glitter bomb” to punish porch thieves in 2018, his fake package bore a return address of what fictional movie character, whom Mr. Rober called a “childhood hero”?Dudley “Booger” DawsonGordon GekkoKevin McCallister
Keith Williams won the 2003 Jeopardy! College Championship and won $50,000 on “Who Wants to Be a Millionaire" in 2018. 
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.

Supported byNonfictionWhen you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.By Nellie BowlesCODERS The Making of a New Tribe and the Remaking of the World By Clive ThompsonCode seems cold and objective, the raw logic of the internet, and Silicon Valley likes it that way.Programmers hunker down in low-slung Palo Alto office parks having signed a nondisclosure agreement at the door. The work is opaque, confoundingly mathematical. The nation’s media capital is 3,000 miles away.When algorithms are implicated in a scandal — say, a new tool to decide jail sentences gives black people longer ones, or a web search for information about vaccines offers up noxious conspiracy theories — the playbook is simple: Blame the code, some off-kilter machine learning, an out-of-control A.I. spasm. Certainly no human hand was involved.Of course, this is a farce. Human hands are all over all of it.In his new book, “Coders,” the longtime Wired magazine writer Clive Thompson works to describe those humans and exactly what their hands do. With an anthropologist’s eye, he outlines their different personality traits, their history and cultural touchstones. He explores how they live, what motivates them and what they fight about. By breaking down what the actual work of coding looks like — often pretty simple, rote, done in teams rather than by loner geniuses — he removes the mystery and brings it into the legible world for the rest of us to debate. Human beings and their foibles are the reason the internet is how it is — for better and often, as this book shows, for worse.[ This book was one of our most anticipated titles of March. See the full list. ]Every boom in the Valley gets a book, and this sober one is extremely 2019. It is not as fun as the rollicking “The Nudist on the Late Shift,” Po Bronson’s hilarious sendup of Silicon Valley culture of the ’90s. It’s not as intimate as “The New New Thing,” Michael Lewis’s tight profile of an obsessed founder at work. Nor is it slightly aspirational, like Steven Levy’s “Hackers.” But 2019 is not about fun in this town. Thompson approaches Silicon Valley as if he were performing an autopsy.“Why didn’t the engineers and designers who built these tools, back in the mid-’00s, foresee the dark ways their platforms would be used?” Thompson writes.He trots out the brogrammers and rock star coders, the hackers and disheveled introverts. He explains how they show off and how they got their jobs.As he introduces the various types of people you might meet in Silicon Valley today and how they behave, he begins to learn their craft himself, and the book sneaks in a helpful Coding 101, allowing the reader to see that it’s not so hard. “What exactly is a bug?” he asks. And in plain English, he explains. He lays out some lines of code in the language Python. The bug was that the line was missing the required colon that always comes after the word “if.” The lesson is that coding is about tiny but manageable details.And he likes it. Coding begins to give him a “remarkably soothing sense of progress,” he writes. He uses poetry to describe how tight, short code is the most powerful. After decades of writing magazine stories, it gives him joy to apply himself to something that “just works.”The good coder values efficiency, and he begins to appreciate that. He drinks the popular meal replacement Soylent, and he does not complain. He starts to see how annoyingly complex humans are in comparison.But a few pages later he sours on his own brief joy as he realizes how it is perverting him. “You can wind up developing habits of mind that feel half machine themselves,” he writes.The backdrop to this book is that something is broken about Silicon Valley. To understand what isn’t working for so many people it’s necessary to scrutinize the coders themselves, their personalities and biases. The very particular culture they’ve created infuses everything they produce for the rest of us. Because deeply introverted people were drawn to coding, they did not prioritize positive human interactions. A community that indulges thoughts of anarchy was wary of adding any guardrails to the programs and products it produced.When dealing with an algorithm that can be built for one and scaled to billions, those idiosyncratic foibles matter a lot. A few individuals’ blind spots mean a massive, world-changing system has those same blind spots. Remember that Instagram had 13 employees when Facebook bought it. WhatsApp had 55.The mostly white men who built the tools of social networks did not recognize the danger of harassment, and so the things they built became conduits for it. If there had been women or people of color in the room, Thompson’s argument goes, there might have been tools built to protect users from the get-go. They were mostly middle-class and upper-middle-class kids from Stanford, and so some of the brightest minds focused on convenience apps, grocery delivery systems and on-demand laundry.Coders themselves like to buttress the idea that some among them are magical. There is the notion of a 10x coder, a genius who can do the work of 10. One of those famous in Silicon Valley is Max Levchin, who built PayPal. Thompson describes the brutal hours it took Levchin to build something that never existed before, the work and obsession it required to make a thing that now seems obvious. “Empyrean feats of coderly productivity,” he calls it.And then he dismantles the idea of the genius coder. He presents the case of a start-up ousting a “brilliant jerk” who was writing elaborate (and to everyone else, illegible) code, discovering they were more productive without him. The lesson was that if the team could work better together, “they wouldn’t need superheroes,” and this seems to be the moral of the chapter. Despite the mystique, coding is not an art.It’s pleasing as he picks up each Silicon Valley cliché, each canard rarely questioned, and dumps it into this wood chip machine.Many Silicon Valley engineers are convinced that the work is done by males (and built mostly for males) because males are better at coding. They imagine a pure meritocracy. Code either works or it doesn’t. Good code rises. There would be more female coders if females were interested in coding and were a little less neurotic, the argument goes.The leading proponent of this is James Damore, a former Google employee who wrote a memo arguing that the reason there were not more women was that women are temperamentally unsuited for coding. “Is it possible that Damore is right?” Thompson asks. “No.”He draws a history of early coding when the best early programmers were, in fact, women, and he describes how other countries have far more gender balance in tech. “If women were so biologically neurotic that they couldn’t endure the competitiveness of coding, then the ratio of women-to-men in programming ought to be similar around the world,” Thompson writes.The only real hero coders in the book are the cypherpunks, a group of cryptography-obsessed coders deeply wary of governments, surveillance and big tech. And they are the good guys here because they told people to be scared of what everyone was building. “The cypherpunks are paranoid, sure — but the rest of us probably should be, too,” Thompson writes.He ends by describing how coal miners are now learning to code. The work that had seemed so complicated can be taught pretty easily, it turns out. The new Brahmins lose their power if everyone knows what’s behind the curtain, and that seems to be Thompson’s goal with this book. Algorithms are human tools, not magical spells.“You think miners can’t figure out how to write JavaScript?” he writes. “Think again.”Nellie Bowles covers technology and internet culture from San Francisco for The Times.CODERS The Making of a New Tribe and the Remaking of the World By Clive Thompson 436 pp. Penguin Press. $28.

Supported byHuge pools of health data collected over the past generation allow you to pick many of your child’s genetic traits. Are you comfortable with that?By Jamie MetzlMr. Metzl is author of the forthcoming “Hacking Darwin: Genetic Engineering and the Future of Humanity.”The year is 2045. The genomes of four billion humans have been sequenced, creating a huge pool of genetic information accessible to researchers. This process had been well underway in 2019, but accelerated rapidly once many countries realized that understanding human biology was the ultimate big data problem and a key to reducing health care costs and enhancing national competitiveness. Widely sharing deeply personal health information had alarmed privacy advocates. But supporters of sharing genetic data argued convincingly that the benefits to society outweighed the privacy concerns of individuals. The debate may have once seemed abstract. But now you are in a fertility clinic and the issues are fast becoming real.The cascade of numbers overwhelms you as the doctor splashes the spreadsheet across the digital walls of her office.“I hope you can see the wonder and possibility in these figures,” she says, trying to put you at ease.As you sit in the spa-like clinic, it’s hard to imagine it was just last week when your assistant placed the miniature device on your arm that painlessly suctioned out a small amount of blood and started you on this journey. The spark of life that used to begin in bedrooms and the back seats of cars was now migrating out of the human body and into the lab.“Take your time,” the doctor continues. “You need to first select the early- stage embryo optimal for you. The numbers across the top list the 300 options for you that we’ve prescreened from the initial 10,000. The column down the left lists all the disorders and traits influenced by genetics that we have some ability to predict. The numbers populating the chart are our best predictions for how the genetic component of each trait would be realized if we selected based on that trait alone. We’re looking for high composite scores emphasizing the qualities most important to you.”You scan the lists  on the walls wondering if a human being can really be reduced to numbers. “Can you really predict all of these traits?” you ask.“These are all probabilities, not certainties,” the doctor says. “Not all traits are equally genetic. And genetics is a trade-off, so we can’t choose to optimize every trait. Thirty years ago we could mostly just identify disorders determined by a single genetic mutation, but in 2018 we started using what we call ‘polygenic scoring’ to make better predictions about diseases and traits influenced by hundreds or thousands of genes. “Our biology is still about as complex as it’s been for millions of years but the technology we’re using to understand it is getting exponentially more sophisticated,” she continues. “There may be magic in humans, but we aren’t made of magic. Our DNA is a type of source code we’re learning how to read and write.”The idea of humans as hackable data sets may be increasingly common but still unsettles you. The numbers on the wall seem to confirm the doctor’s words. “And this 60 means that embryo would be good at math?” you ask, pointing to one of the options on the list.“There are few genetic guarantees,” she answers, “but that embryo would have a greater than average possibility, with lots of other necessary environmental inputs, of being a very good pure mathematician. Comparing billions of people’s genetics with their test scores over the past 30 years has taught us a lot. Many people with the potential to be great mathematicians never realize that potential, but there are probably no highest-level mathematicians without the necessary underlying genetics.”Your mind struggles to build a case for nature as it used to seem. “My mother always used to tell me I was perfect just as I was.”“And you are,” the doctor replies. “We all are. These would all be your natural children just the same as if you had conceived through sex or old-fashioned in vitro fertilization. We’ve simply increased the number of options by turning cells from the blood sample you sent us into the stem cells we used to create more eggs. The great Japanese scientist Shinya Yamanaka won the 2012 Nobel Prize for pointing us in this direction. All of the qualities you’re choosing are entirely your and your sperm donor’s genetic inheritance. We aren’t altering those genetics in any way, just enhancing your choice and limiting your risk.”You still struggle with the idea that the magic of life can be reduced to a series of percentages on a chart. “Is it really that simple?”“Nature is no fool. Evolution isn’t random. It just made some trade-offs for us over the years that today don’t always seem that great. We have to approach all of this with a healthy dose of humility.”Scanning the wall, you don’t see humility. A few low numbers catch your eye. Would it possibly make sense to implant an embryo more likely to get Type 1 diabetes or early-onset familial Alzheimer’s or to die young? You know that people with genetic disorders are just different. Some of them, like some people with autism, even have powers far beyond their so-called normal peers. What would it mean to select these conditions with a simple nod? You fidget nervously. “What if I pick to optimize a characteristic that makes sense today but could be less helpful in a different world tomorrow?” “If our environment changes, we need to adapt,” the doctor says. “But our ability to push changes more assertively has also increased rapidly since the genetic engineering revolution began in the 1970s, especially since our gene editing tools started really taking off around 30 years ago. It’s not yet safe enough to make too many edits to the genomes of human embryos, but we can confidently make deletions, alterations and insertions to alter the expression of a few genes where the potential benefits seem to outweigh the risks — like for increased resistance to some deadly viruses, greater ability to build and maintain muscle mass, or a lower risk of cancer, diabetes, familial Alzheimer’s, and coronary disease. Those are all part of our premium enhancement package.”You are relatively wealthy and living in an advanced country but it bothers you that many others can’t afford or obtain this basic level of service, let alone the premium package. You wonder if it’s right to select human traits as if they were features of a car, and if it’s dangerous to frontally assault four billion years of evolution. You fear you might be fixing one potential problem only to inadvertently create another.[As technology advances, will it continue to blur the lines between public and private? Sign up for Charlie Warzel’s limited-run newsletter to explore what’s at stake and what you can do about it.]But then you close your eyes and imagine your grandchildren holding your future daughter’s hand as her mind deteriorates from early-onset Alzheimer’s or weeping at the cemetery after her premature death. Would you really play Russian roulette with your daughter’s fate? Wouldn’t you want more than anything else to give her the greatest genetic opportunity to live a long, healthy and successful life?Your head suddenly stops throbbing. Your mind becomes clear. You open your eyes. “What’s the next step?”“You need to make hard choices ranking your priorities both for the embryo selection and the gene edits,” the doctor says, leaning in. “Picking everything is like picking nothing. If having a good shot at a longer life and an outgoing personality are really important to you, give those your highest ranking. If being a good long-distance runner is nice but not that important, put that lower.”Your mind is already transfixed on the range of possible futures. You breathe in deeply.“Shall we begin?”Jamie Metzl (@JamieMetzl) is author of the forthcoming “Hacking Darwin: Genetic Engineering and the Future of Humanity” and a member of the World Health Organization international advisory committee on the future of human gene editing. Follow @privacyproject on Twitter and The New York Times Opinion Section on Facebook and Instagram. 

Supported byNew films by Donald Glover and Beyoncé and an Easter Sunday Service from Kanye West are competing for buzz this year. By Reggie UgwuMerely headlining Coachella? You’re doing it wrong. These days, the festival’s biggest past and present stars are hacking it.From new films by Donald Glover and Beyoncé to a one-morning-only Easter performance by Kanye West, this year’s fest in Indio, Calif., comes with a shadow billing of bonus, semi-sanctioned content aimed far beyond the main stage. The extracurricular activity signifies the evolution of one of the country’s largest music festivals from a mostly self-contained arbiter of status — able to confer cultural relevance in a font size on its lineup posters — into something more like an all-purpose tool for today’s globally minded performers, accustomed in the digital age to serving many audiences at once and on their own terms.For fans, more off-platform programming at Coachella means it’s easier than ever to avoid FOMO without coughing up a half-grand and trekking to the desert. Here’s a short guide.The rapper Childish Gambino, alias of the entertainer Donald Glover, is unveiling a new movie and has a headlining set this weekend. A mysterious trailer for the film, called “Guava Island,” had its premiere at Glover’s PHAROS festival in November, crediting the co-stars Rihanna, Letitia Wright, Nonso Anozie and the director Hiro Murai (“Atlanta,” “This Is America”), and sending internet sleuths into overdrive.The secrets of “Guava Island” were revealed Thursday night at an early screening on the Coachella campgrounds, and it debuted during Childish Gambino’s set. The movie is neither a visual album à la “Lemonade,” as some fans predicted, nor a traditional feature, but something in between. Kyle Buchanan of The New York Times attended the screening and described it as “a music-driven fable” set in Cuba that pairs refurbished Gambino hits, including “This Is America” and “Summertime Magic,” with a slight plot concerning love, music and capitalism. The film will be available to stream free on Amazon for 18 hours, from 3 a.m. to 9 p.m. Eastern on Saturday and will remain available for Prime Video members. Saturday, April 13, 3 a.m. EasternAll year, Kanye West has been hosting a roving, informal, invite-only Sunday morning concert series — Sunday Service — featuring a gospel choir and sanctified renditions of his songs and others. Guests have reportedly included Katy Perry and David Letterman, but the Coachella crowd (and viewers watching on the live stream) will get to hear the gospel on the second Sunday of the festival, which falls on Easter this year. In January, Billboard reported that West had originally been set to headline both weekends of the festival, but he pulled out at the last minute because of a dispute over his desire to perform in a custom dome. It’s unsurprising, then, that he’s chosen an equally nontraditional venue for the Sunday Service show — a hill (or “mountain,” as West called it in an announcement video) on land usually reserved for campgrounds. Sunday, April 21, Time T.B.A. (West has said 9 a.m. Pacific.)One of the most disruptive Coachella performances in recent memory took place last year, when Beyoncé — the first African-American woman to headline the festival — transformed her set into a robust, kinetic survey of the collegiate traditions and musical lineage of black America. That show is the subject of “Homecoming,” a new, behind-the-scenes documentary debuting on Netflix the Wednesday between the two weekends of this year’s festival. The original performance was the most-watched Coachella live stream ever, with more than 458,000 concurrent viewers. Now, the artist will deliver a remixed, 360-degree view of the experience to Netflix’s millions of subscribers. Wednesday, April 17 For the first time, Coachella will live stream its second weekend on YouTube in addition to Weekend 1. Tune in for a special at-home viewing experience featuring short documentaries on, and original commentary from, top-billed performers. April 19-21 Reggie Ugwu is a pop culture reporter covering a range of subjects, including film, television, music and internet culture. Before joining The Times in 2017, he was a reporter for BuzzFeed News and Billboard magazine.  @uugwuu 

Supported byBy Adam Satariano and Nicole PerlrothLONDON — Within days of a cyberattack, warehouses of the snack foods company Mondelez International filled with a backlog of Oreo cookies and Ritz crackers.Mondelez, owner of dozens of well-known food brands like Cadbury chocolate and Philadelphia cream cheese, was one of the hundreds of companies struck by the so-called NotPetya cyberstrike in 2017. Laptops froze suddenly as Mondelez employees worked at their desks. Email was unavailable, as was access to files on the corporate network. Logistics software that orchestrates deliveries and tracks invoices crashed.Even with teams working around the clock, it was weeks before Mondelez recovered. Once the lost orders were tallied and the computer equipment was replaced, its financial hit was more than $100 million, according to court documents.After the ordeal, executives at the company took some solace in knowing that insurance would help cover the costs. Or so they thought.Mondelez’s insurer, Zurich Insurance, said it would not be sending a reimbursement check. It cited a common, but rarely used, clause in insurance contracts: the “war exclusion,” which protects insurers from being saddled with costs related to damage from war.Mondelez was deemed collateral damage in a cyberwar.The 2017 attack was a watershed moment for the insurance industry. Since then, insurers have been applying the war exemption to avoid claims related to digital attacks. In addition to Mondelez, the pharmaceutical giant Merck said insurers had denied claims after the NotPetya attack hit its sales research, sales and manufacturing operations, causing nearly $700 million in damage.When the United States government assigned responsibility for NotPetya to Russia in 2018, insurers were provided with a justification for refusing to cover the damage. Just as they wouldn’t be liable if a bomb blew up a corporate building during an armed conflict, they claim not to be responsible when a state-backed hack strikes a computer network.The disputes are playing out in court. In a closely watched legal battle, Mondelez sued Zurich Insurance last year for a breach of contract in an Illinois court, and Merck filed a similar suit in New Jersey in August. Merck sued more than 20 insurers that rejected claims related to the NotPetya attack, including several that cited the war exemption. The two cases could take years to resolve.The legal fights will set a precedent about who pays when businesses are hit by a cyberattack blamed on a foreign government. The cases have broader implications for government officials, who have increasingly taken a bolder approach to naming-and-shaming state sponsors of cyberattacks, but now risk becoming enmeshed in corporate disputes by giving insurance companies a rationale to deny claims.“You’re running a huge risk that cyberinsurance in the future will be worthless,” said Ariel Levite, a senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, who has written about the case. But he said the insurance industry’s position on NotPetya is “not entirely frivolous, because it is widely believed that the Russians had been behind the attack.”Mondelez said in a statement that while its business had recovered quickly from the attack, Zurich Insurance was responsible for honoring an insurance policy that explicitly covers cyber events. The company added that it did not believe the war exemption clause fit the circumstances.Zurich Insurance, based in Switzerland, and Merck declined to comment because of the active litigation. But court documents, public filings and interviews with people familiar with cases provided details about the disputes.Cyberattacks have created a unique challenge for insurers. Traditional practices, like not covering multiple buildings in the same neighborhood to avoid the risk of, say, a big fire don’t apply. Malware moves fast and unpredictably, leaving an expensive trail of collateral damage.“It cuts across practically every type of business activity,” Mr. Levite said. The risk, he said, “no longer can be contained in this interconnected world.”NotPetya — which picked up the odd name because security researchers initially confused it with a piece of so-called ransomware called Petya — was a vivid example. It was also a powerful assault on computer networks that incorporated a stolen National Security Agency cyberweapon.American officials tied the attack to Russia and its conflict with Ukraine. The original target was a Ukrainian tax software maker and its Ukrainian customers. In just 24 hours, NotPetya wiped clean 10 percent of all computers in Ukraine, paralyzing networks at banks, gas stations, hospitals, airports, power companies and nearly every government agency, and shutting down the radiation monitors at the old Chernobyl nuclear power plant.The attack made its way to the software maker’s global clients, eventually entangling Mondelez and Merck, as well as the Danish shipping conglomerate Maersk and FedEx’s European subsidiary. It hit even Russia’s state-owned oil giant, Rosneft.In a statement in 2018, the White House described NotPetya as “part of the Kremlin’s ongoing effort to destabilize Ukraine” and said it had demonstrated “ever more clearly Russia’s involvement in the ongoing conflict.”Many insurance companies sell cyber coverage, but the policies are often written narrowly to cover costs related to the loss of customer data, such as helping a company provide credit checks or cover legal bills.Mondelez, a former unit of Kraft Foods, argues that its property insurance package should cover the losses from the NotPetya attack. In court filings, Mondelez said its policy had been updated in 2016 to include losses caused by “the malicious introduction of a machine code or instruction.”The company lost 1,700 servers and 24,000 laptops. Employees were left to communicate through WhatsApp, and executives posted updates on Yammer, a social network used by companies.Damage from NotPetya spread all the way to Hobart, Tasmania, where computers in a Cadbury factory displayed so-called ransomware messages that demanded $300 in Bitcoin.Courts often rule against insurers that try to apply the wartime exemption. After hijackers destroyed a Pan Am airliner in 1970, a United States court rejected Aetna’s attempt, determining that the action was criminal, not an act of war. In 1983, a judge ruled that Holiday Inn’s insurance policy covered damage from the civil war in Lebanon.In the Mondelez and Merck lawsuits, the central question is whether the government’s attribution of the NotPetya attack to Russia meets the bar for the war exclusion.Risk industry experts say cyberwar is still largely undefined. Attribution can be difficult when attacks come from groups with unofficial links to a state and the blamed government denies involvement.“We still don’t have a clear idea of what cyberwar actually looks like,” said Jake Olcott, vice president at BitSight Technologies, a cyber risk adviser. “That is one of the struggles in this case. No one has said this was an all-out cyberwar by Russia.”In the past, American officials were reluctant to qualify cyberattacks as cyberwar, fearing the term could provoke an escalation. President Barack Obama, for example, was careful to say the aggressive North Korean cyberattack on Sony Entertainment in 2014, which destroyed more than 70 percent of Sony’s computer servers, was an act of “cybervandalism.”That label was sharply criticized by Senators John McCain and Lindsey Graham, who called the hack a “new form of warfare” and “terrorism.”The description of the Sony attack was deliberate, said John Carlin, the assistant attorney general at the Justice Department at the time. In an interview, he said the Obama administration had worried, in part, that the use of “cyberwar” would have triggered the liability exclusions and fine print that Mondelez is now challenging in court.Scott Kannry, the chief executive of the risk assessment firm Axio Global, said the insurance industry was watching the Mondelez case closely because many policies were created before cyberattacks were such an urgent risk.“You have insurers who are sitting on insurance policies that were never underwritten or understood to cover cyber risk,” Mr. Kannry said. “Zurich didn’t underwrite the policy with the idea that a cyber event would cause the kind of losses that happened to Mondelez. Nobody is at war with Mondelez.”Many insurance companies are rethinking their coverage. Since the lawsuits were filed, Shannan Fort, who specializes in cyberinsurance for Aon, one of the world’s largest insurance brokers, has been fielding calls from companies scrambling to be sure they’ll be safe if attacked, she said.“I don’t want to scare people, but if a country or nation state attacks a very specific segment, like national infrastructure, is that cyberterrorism or is that an act of war?” Ms. Fort asked. “There is still a bit of gray area.”Ty Sagalow, a former chief operating officer at the insurance giant A.I.G., helped pioneer the market for cyber risk insurance nearly two decades ago. He said his team had contemplated a “Cyber Pearl Harbor” attack not unlike the NotPetya attack.“Cyberwar and cyberterrorism has always been a tricky area,” Mr. Sagalow said. Insurers risk abusing the war exclusion by not paying claims, he said, particularly when an attack “can hit companies that were not the original target of violence.”Collateral damage from attacks that get out of control are going to become more and more common, he added. “That is what cyber is today,” Mr. Sagalow said. “And if you don’t like it, you shouldn’t be in the business.”Follow Adam Satariano and Nicole Perlroth on Twitter: @satariano and @nicoleperlroth.Adam Satariano reported from London, and Nicole Perlroth from San Francisco.

Supported byBy Mihir ZaveriThe notifications on Facebook come as unwelcome reminders of personal loss:A recommendation to add a cousin’s dead son as a friend.A video commemorating friendship with a sibling who died years ago.A suggestion to wish a dead brother “Happy Birthday.”While Facebook has emerged as a remarkable tool to preserve cherished memories of departed friends and family, it has also served up these and other troubling — and often unexpected — notifications.On Tuesday, Facebook announced several changes aimed at easing users’ grief. The social media company is using artificial intelligence “to minimize experiences that might be painful,” Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook’s chief operating officer, said in a statement posted to the company’s website.“We use AI to help keep it from showing up in places that might cause distress, like recommending that person be invited to events or sending a birthday reminder to their friends,” Ms. Sandberg said. “We’re working to get better and faster at this.”The announcement came as Facebook has faced scrutiny over the spread of white nationalism on its platforms, not properly protecting its users’ data and allowing foreign meddling in elections.Facebook’s push to better manage notifications about dead people may seem like a common-sense move. But it is not a trivial exercise for the company, which has for years grappled with so-called digital afterlife.A number of users have reported that profiles of dead friends or family have been hacked or used to share spam. In 2014, the company apologized after a “Year in Review” post featured the face of a man’s dead daughter, The Washington Post reported at the time.“The phenomena here is where life is transient, Facebook is not,” said Pamela Rutledge, director of the Media Psychology Research Center, a California-based nonprofit.After someone dies, a friend or family member can request that the person’s profile be deactivated or “memorialized” if that person had not already requested that the account be permanently deleted upon their death. A memorialized account turns the profile into a special account where people can post tributes or see posts from when that person was still alive.There are hundreds of thousands of memorialized accounts, the company said. But accounts do not always get memorialized.“We’ve heard from people that memorializing a profile can feel like a big step that not everyone is immediately ready to take,” Ms. Sandberg said in her post.That means that many dead people have profiles that have not been flagged to Facebook. These accounts will prompt notifications on other people’s pages for birthday reminders or suggestions that they be invited to events.Facebook has for years tried to automate ways to identify those profiles so they don’t send possibly painful notifications to users.Ms. Sandberg did not specify how the new artificial intelligence technology announced Tuesday would do this better than the company’s previous efforts. Facebook would not provide further details other than to say in an emailed statement, “We look at a variety of signals that may indicate the person is deceased.”Ms. Rutledge said the announcement was the latest in Facebook’s continuing evolution. The company introduced memorialized profiles in 2007. In 2015, the company added the concept of a “legacy contact” — the prearranged appointment of a friend or family member to run the memorialized account.“This isn’t something where we should say, ‘Oh, bad Facebook because they didn’t think of this,’” she said. “I think they’re stumbling along like everyone else trying to learn how to live in this world.”In Tuesday’s announcement, Ms. Sandberg also announced a new “tributes” section on memorialized profiles, giving friends and family a new place where they can post messages. The company is also giving legacy contacts more control of those profiles by moderating what is posted on the new tributes section, Ms. Sandberg said.Ms. Rutledge said several months ago that Facebook reminded her to wish happy birthday to her father, who died more than two years ago at the age of 91. She said her family had not memorialized her father’s account — but not for any particular reason.“If Facebook isn’t sort of one of your primary mechanisms for connecting with the world, it would be pretty easy to not think to do that,” Ms. Rutledge said.Jocelyn DeGroot, a professor at Southern Illinois University Edwardsville who has studied how people handle death on Facebook, said the reminders also did not bother everyone. Some like to be reminded of those who have died.“Whatever triggers somebody might not trigger somebody else,” she said. “People like to be reminded of the deceased, but sort of on their own terms.”

By Farhad Manjoo, with illustrations by Ariel Davis. Design and development by Jessia Ma and Sahil Chinoy.Waymo/YouTube,  AWS Online Tech Talks/YouTube, Verizon/YouTube, BatelleInnovations/YouTube, 23andMe/YouTube, McGovern Institute for Brain Research at MIT/YouTube, FaceFirst Facial Recognition Platform/YouTube, Hanson Robotics/YouTube, Amazon Web Services/YouTube, Nest/YouTube, Jamrak/YouTube, Youku Tudou Inc, Huawei IT/YouTube, Ancestry/YouTube, Fitbit/YouTube, Venmo/YouTube, Facebook/YouTube, Amazon/YouTube

Supported byLetter 101By Jamie TarabayThe Australia Letter is a weekly newsletter from our Australia bureau. Sign up to get it by email.___Australians will go to the polls next month to elect a new government, and because elections take place as soon as 33 days after they’re officially called, the country’s politicians will have to move quickly to solidify votes.Whoever takes the helm will have to contend with a set of challenges that mirror those of other democracies around the world.Here’s a look at some of the key domestic and international issues that we’ll be watching and that Australia’s leaders will be confronting.In February, Australia became the latest Western nation whose institutions had most likely been tampered with after the government acknowledged that Parliament’s computer network had been hacked by a foreign government.No country has been named as being behind the cyberattack, but security experts say China, Russia, and possibly Iran and North Korea are among the suspects.Officials said the three major political parties were among those affected, but wouldn’t say to what extent, because they hadn’t seen anything like this breach before. Even as he said a “sophisticated state actor” was behind the attack, Prime Minister Scott Morrison insisted there was “no evidence of any electoral interference.”Australian elections are quick, they are compulsory and the majority of voters will cast their ballots on paper. However, during the last federal election, some areas used electronic lists to check voters’ names off electoral rolls. It’s not yet known if those electronic lists will be used in light of the recent hack.The Australia that will go to the polls in May is markedly different to the one that voted in 2016, particularly when it comes to China. Then, the Australian economy was on fire, Chinese investment had surged to a new high, and while the government blocked some Chinese bids for infrastructure projects, it was a record-setting year for deals with Chinese companies.For years, the Australian government had been able to successfully navigate its economic ties with its largest trading partner, China, and its strategic relationship with its greatest ally, the United States, without having to compromise on either.But a slew of events have redefined Canberra’s relationship with Beijing. In 2017, a prominent Australian senator, Sam Dastyari, resigned over accusations of lobbying for Beijing and taking money from Chinese-born political donors. The government passed a foreign interference law, requiring lobbyists for other countries to register and disclose their activities — one of many efforts to push the Chinese government’s soft-power campaign out of the shadows.And in August, Australia banned Huawei, the Chinese technology giant, from participating in the building of a fifth-generation telecommunications network.Politicians have been reluctant to explicitly discuss the China challenge up till now, but pressure will continue to build no matter who wins the election.It was ostensibly energy policy that led to Malcolm Turnbull becoming the third prime minister in 10 years to lose the job — a dispute about addressing climate change prompted the change.But the public is far less divided. A recent poll found that 59 percent of Australians are concerned about climate change and frustrated at the lack of initiative from Canberra to address it.Several independent candidates are running in key electorates — including the former head of a clean energy corporation who is campaigning for the seat won last time by Josh Frydenberg, the treasurer.Even so, the two main political parties have staked out vastly different positions on climate change. The Labor Party has said that there will be no new coal-powered plants if it wins, but the Coalition has not ruled them out. Labor also supports a 45 percent emissions target by 2030, while the Liberal Party said that it is committed to 26 percent by 2030. Labor has also promised rebates for households installing solar batteries and wants 50 percent of new car sales to be electric vehicles by 2030.Mr. Morrison says he will spend billions of dollars on a hydroelectricity project to help alleviate rising power bills and offset carbon emissions. He has criticized the opposition’s policies, arguing that higher emissions targets would “crash the economy.”As President Trump calls for funding to build a wall on the Mexico border, Mr. Morrison continues to boast of his role in stopping boats full of asylum seekers heading to Australia, and now wants to limit the number of skilled migrants who come to the country legally each year.The move to reduce the current cap on immigration by nearly 30,000 people is seen as a step back by many. The country has relied on immigrant labor to fuel its economic boom as its population has grown to 25 million. The move also represents a reversal for Mr. Morrison, who pushed back against cutting the cap before he became prime minister.The Labor Party, on the other hand, wants to increase the annual refugee intake from 16,250 to 27,000 by 2025 and said it would stick to the current migration cap should it win.But the issue of immigration has created a heated debate in Australia, as voters and politicians ask: How much of the opposition to immigration comes from concerns over strained infrastructure in cities, and how much comes from racism, Islamophobia and fear?A senator recently made global headlines when he blamed Muslim immigration for the mass shooting in Christchurch, New Zealand.Mr. Morrison has had to deflect criticism of his party as anti-immigrant and anti-Muslim. When asked if the Coalition had a problem with Islamophobia, he said: “As leader, my job is to set the right tone. And the tone I have set, you can see from my experience. My example has been to work with the Muslim community very deeply.”So what’s the most important issue for you this election? Share it with us at nytaustralia@nytimes.com.Now, on to some reader responses and other highlights from The Times this week.____Many of you weighed in on our examination last week of Al Jazeera’s undercover investigation on the National Rifle Association and whether it was ethical. Thanks to all who wrote in or shared in our Facebook group. Here’s a few of your responses.“I am all for journalists using deception if it is the only way to expose something as serious as the activities of the gun lobby and One Nation. We heard them say to put nothing in a recordable form that can be investigated in any accepted way, including by law enforcement, so if they are being so deceptive, deceptive journalism is the only way to find the truth.” — Helen O’Dea“One assumes that the job of journalists is to uncover the truth. If you ask people (particularly One Nation people) questions, they will lie to you. This method worked a lot better as a means to expose what One Nation really stand for. I like it. Would I like it if some of my political allies were shown up as a bit grubby? Well not as much, but its still a legitimate technique.” — John Brookes“Your ethics guide is right. The last thing you want is to be accused of deception in pursuit of a story as that diminishes the validity of said story.“The issue of what, and who makes the determination, is in the public interest is equally as important. The case of the N.R.A. and One Nation is a clear-cut case of foreign intervention in our democratic process. That is a concern and definitely in the public interest.“But there are cases, no doubt, that are less clear, which begs the question: how does the NYT decide what is in the public interest? Sticky area!” — Ian Baxter____Don’t miss our mammoth three-part investigation into one of the most influential figures alive today: How Rupert Murdoch’s Empire of Influence Remade the World.The reporters visited three continents, including Australia, and interviewed more than 150 people to unveil the story of a dysfunctional family that has toppled governments and destabilized democracies. It’s an engrossing, long read, perfect for the weekend.In other news:• Australia Passes Law to Punish Social Media Companies for Violent Posts: The law — strongly opposed by the tech industry — puts Australia at the forefront of a global movement to hold companies like Facebook and YouTube accountable for the content they host.• The Great Barrier Reef Was Seen as ‘Too Big to Fail.’ A Study Suggests It Isn’t: Even the largest ecosystems have limits when it comes to recovering from the impact of climate change, according to new research.•  Hannah Gadsby on Autism and the Risk of Failing After ‘Nanette’: The comedian who said she was quitting stand-up is back with a new show, “Douglas,” that is sold out in Australia. “I don’t care if this fails,” she says.• Christchurch Suspect to Be Charged With 50 Counts of Murder: The suspected gunman will also face 39 accounts of attempted murder when he appears in court today, the New Zealand police said.• Meet the Australian Who Guards Duke’s Best Every Day. He Has Seen Things: Jack White, an eager kid from Traralgon, arrived at Duke in the summer of 2016 thinking he was ready for big-time college basketball. He had no idea exactly what he was about to face.And in last Friday’s episode of The Daily podcast, our New Zealand reporter Charlotte Graham-McLay followed the family of one man who died in the Christchurch attack.____Four of this week’s most popular reads:• Opinion|The United Kingdom Has Gone Mad: What we’re seeing is a country that’s determined to commit economic suicide but can’t even agree on how to kill itself, Thomas Friedman writes.• Smarter Living|Productivity Isn’t About Time Management. It’s About Attention Management: “Time management” is not a solution — it’s actually part of the problem.• Opinion|The Incredible Shrinking Apple: Steve Jobs wanted to put a ding in the universe. Today, Apple wants to ding your pocketbook, Farhad Manjoo writes.• Politics|Some Say Mueller Report Is More Damaging Than Revealed: Some of Robert Mueller’s investigators see their report as more damaging for President Trump than the attorney general indicated.____… A special breakfast briefing in Sydney with Mark Thompson, president and chief executive of The New York Times Company.Mark will be in conversation with Paul Barry, host of ABC’s Media Watch, on April 12 at the Museum of Contemporary Art Australia. He’ll share his thoughts on the shifting global media landscape and the risks to democracy from declining investment in quality journalism.The event is free and you can register for it here. We hope to see you there!

Supported byBy Alan YuhasOver the last decade, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel has repeatedly quashed rivals on the left and the right, defying the odds — and the polls — to hold onto power. He has increasingly relied on right-wing partners to do so.Yet in nationwide elections Tuesday, he faces an unexpectedly strong challenger: Benny Gantz, a former army chief who has tirelessly reminded voters that Mr. Netanyahu may soon face corruption charges — a planned indictment that would make him the first sitting prime minister in Israel to face criminal prosecution.Mr. Netanyahu’s future — and his legacy — are not the only things at stake in the election. A potential reshuffling of Israel’s chaotic political landscape could have far-reaching consequences. Here’s a guide to our coverage of the players, issues and possible ramifications of the election.• Mr. Netanyahu, 69, has framed himself as Israel’s Indispensable Man: the tough ex-soldier who has aggressively defended Israel’s interests, raising the country’s prominence on the world stage. His relentless self-promotion and potent politics of division — pitting right against left, Jew against Arab, religious against secular — have helped him dodge past allegations of corruption and build his current coalition, consisting of his Likud party and pro-settlement and ultra-Orthodox factions.• Mr. Gantz, 59, is a three-star general who fought two wars in Gaza, giving him credentials to challenge Mr. Netanyahu’s “Mr. Security” persona. In campaign ads, Mr. Gantz both boasted about “terrorists killed” over his military career and suggested he could be a peacemaker. He teamed up with two other former army chiefs and another centrist, Yair Lapid, to try to court voters in the middle of the ideological spectrum.• Under Israel’s chaotic and confusing parliamentary system, a panoply of small parties could tip the balance of power. The unlikeliest kingmaker is an iconoclastic politician, Moshe Feiglin, last seen pushing a far-right agenda of annexing the entire West Bank. He is now calling for the legalization of marijuana and has put out proposals aimed at reducing the cost of living: a flat tax, privatization of hospitals, an end to import tariffs, and land reform to lower housing costs.• The Arab vote is also a wild card — especially as, on the eve of the election, Mr. Netanyahu pledged to begin annexing parts of the West Bank, a potentially fatal blow to the prospects for a peace agreement with Palestinians. A strong turnout among Palestinian citizens of Israel, who make up 20 percent of the population, could raise the number of votes needed to make it into Parliament, jeopardizing smaller parties on the right and the left. Yet Arab voters have seemed even less enthusiastic about voting than Jews, and a boycott-the-vote campaign has gained strength in the past month.• Whoever wins in the electoral contest will have to cobble together a coalition in Parliament, where no party has ever won a 61-seat majority outright. Here’s our guide to the factions and system.• In the turbulent run-up to the vote, parties collapsed, former allies turned on one another and younger Likud leaders prepared for life after Bibi. Election ads reflected the ugly, anything-goes tenor of the race, and neither of the front-runners said much about policy.• A series of unforced errors by Mr. Gantz gave Mr. Netanyahu opportunities to call his fitness for office into question, as did a report on Israeli television that Mr. Gantz’s cellphone had been hacked by Iranian intelligence. Mr. Netanyahu also played up President Trump’s recognition of the Golan Heights as Israeli territory, and his relationship with Mr. Trump.• Mr. Gantz, meanwhile, hammered on the allegations of corruption around the prime minister. An Israeli watchdog group found a network of hundreds of social media accounts, many of them fake, were being used to smear Mr. Netanyahu’s opponents. Both men seized on Menachem Begin, the former prime minister and militant Zionist, as a campaign prop — 27 years after his death.• In February, Israel’s attorney general announced his intention to indict Mr. Netanyahu on charges of bribery, fraud and breach of trust. Mr. Netanyahu denies any wrongdoing, and is entitled to a hearing before an indictment is formally issued.• Read more here about the cases against him, the culmination of a two-year investigation into his dealings with wealthy businessmen, including a Hollywood movie producer and Israeli newspaper publishers.• Mr. Netanyahu is also facing a new scandal: He is accused of secretly approving the sale of advanced submarines to Egypt without the approval of top military officials, and is accused of self-dealing, through an undisclosed and enormously profitable financial stake in a company that supplied the German builder of both the Egyptian subs and several new Israeli warships.

Supported byWhen the tools of modern life stop working, people should be able to shop for the best price on repairs. By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.A giant John Deere tractor and a pocket-size Apple iPhone have something important in common: The cost of repairing either one is too high.The two companies, and many of their peers, use a variety of aggressive tactics, including electronic locks and restrictive warranties, to push customers with broken equipment to seek help from their authorized repair facilities — or to give up and buy a replacement.This is unfair to consumers who might be able to obtain, or perform, lower-priced repairs. It’s unfair to independent businesses that might do the work. And it’s bad for the environment, because the high cost of repairs leads people to toss devices that might have been fixed.Late last month, Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, who is running for the Democratic presidential nomination, proposed a national right-to-repair law for farm equipment. The idea is based on a 2012 Massachusetts law that requires carmakers to provide the information necessary to perform repairs and to sell any special tools needed to do the work. The law also phased in a requirement that new cars be compatible with generic diagnostic tools.Ms. Warren has the right idea, but she did not go far enough. The owners of consumer electronic products deserve the same protection as farmers.The potential savings are considerable. A 2011 study found that customers who used independent auto repair shops spent about 24 percent less on repairs each year. Similarly, Apple charges $279 to fix the screen of an iPhone X, while a repair store in downtown Washington, D.C., quoted a price of $219 — although the lack of Apple support makes such repairs riskier. “Right-to-repair” is a bit of a misnomer. The owner of a device generally has the legal right to repair it. The issue is whether the manufacturer allows people and independent businesses to obtain the necessary information, tools and parts to do the repairs.Until recently, cars, tractors and even most consumer electronic products were relatively easy to fix, without any help or permission from the manufacturer. Parents taught their children to make basic auto repairs; teenagers built their own computers.The growing complexity of electronic devices, however, means that people need help from manufacturers. And companies have taken advantage of that shift in power.Some obstacles are passive. Companies can impede people from repairing modern electronic devices simply by declining to publish the necessary schematics.Companies also take active measures to discourage tinkering. Like many modern machines, John Deere’s tractors are a marriage of mechanical and electronic technology. And the company requires replacement parts to be verified electronically — a process akin to clearing passport control.In addition to the high cost of repairs, farmers complain about having to wait for a certified technician during harvest season, when every minute of daylight is precious.Apple and John Deere both have made some concessions. Apple no longer threatens to void phone warranties if screens are repaired by other companies. Last year it paid to install screen-repair machinery at 30 stores owned by an independent retailer, Simply Mac, in parts of the country not previously served by authorized Apple technicians. Deere has agreed to offer its manuals and diagnostic software for sale by 2021.There is still a clear need for a national and enforceable standard.The Federal Trade Commission is showing interest in the issue, and plans to hold a hearing in July on “Nixing the Fix: A Workshop on Repair Restrictions.”But solving the issue may not require national legislation. After Massachusetts passed its auto repair law in 2012, major carmakers agreed to nationalize those standards in a signed agreement with trade groups representing independent auto repair shops.A single state law could prove a dam buster for other kinds of products, too. Information and parts available in one state, after all, are effectively available in every state.Legislators in 20 states have introduced some version of right-to-repair legislation this year. The front-runner is a bill in Minnesota, where similar legislation has been proposed for several years. This bill is expected to reach the floor of the Minnesota House this month.Apple and John Deere, among other companies, have lobbied vigorously, and so far with success, against proposals for state right-to-repair laws. Companies say that they are seeking to ensure the quality of repairs, protecting both their customers and their own reputations.They also have raised more sensational concerns. Lydia Brasch, a Nebraska state senator who proposed such a law in 2017, said an Apple lobbyist warned her that Nebraska would become a hot spot for hackers, and that it was dangerous to play with lithium batteries. The company is welcome to persuade people to patronize its own repair facilities, or to buy new iPhones. But there ought to be a law against forcing the issue. An open marketplace for repairs benefits consumers, independent retailers and the environment. Modern devices are increasingly complicated; that concept is not.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

She thought she would be safe in Toronto. Then she began speaking out against the Chinese government and became the victim of a lurid smear campaign.Sheng Xue has been the victim of a relentless smear campaign that experts say has all the markings of a coordinated attack by the Chinese Communist Party.CreditCreditIan Willms for The New York TimesSupported byBy Catherine PorterMISSISSAUGA, Ontario — Search for Sheng Xue on Google in English and you will find the story of an award-winning writer who left China for Canada after the Tiananmen Square uprising and became one of the world’s leading advocates for Chinese democracy.But that same search in Chinese comes up with a very different portrait: Sheng Xue is a fraud, a thief, a traitor and a serial philanderer. Want proof? It offers up salacious photos, like one seeming to show her kissing a man who is not her husband.As China extends its influence around the globe, it has mastered the art of soft power, establishing Confucius Institutes on Western college campuses and funding ports and power plants in developing countries.But building up is only one prong of the Chinese strategy. The other is knocking down. And few know this better than Sheng Xue.For more than six years, the Chinese-Canadian activist has been the victim of a relentless campaign to discredit her by blog, Listserv, e-book and social media, which experts say bears the markings of a coordinated attack by the Chinese Communist Party.“This is a textbook destabilization of the exile movement,” said Nicholas Bequelin, Amnesty International’s regional director for East Asia.“Since the early 1990s,” Mr. Bequelin said, “China has understood the best way to neutralize this group and prevent them from essentially getting organized is to ensure they have no undisputed figurehead.”Sheng Xue is the pen name for 57-year-old Zang Xihong. The attacks have left her name — and health — in tatters.“I escaped Tiananmen Square in China,” she said one winter day sitting in the living room of her suburban bungalow outside Toronto. “I thought I’d have a safe, happy life in Canada.”But the Communist Party, she said, “was already here.”The smears cannot be definitively linked to the Chinese government, experts say.However in Canada, security experts have warned for years about the growing influence of Beijing not only on Chinese expatriates but on the government itself. In 2010, the head of Canada’s intelligence service shocked the country by declaring that the Chinese Communist Party had “agents of influence” in local governments.And in 2017, a confidential report prepared by the Canadian branch of Amnesty International alerted the authorities to the harassment of Chinese-Canadian activists, the scale of which appeared “consistent with a coordinated, Chinese state-sponsored campaign.”The dissident who seemed to be getting the worst of it: Sheng Xue.“I think she’s a victim,” said Andy Ellis, the former assistant director of operations for the Canadian Security Intelligence Service. “I strongly do. I think the Chinese government is trying to sully her reputation to advance their own interests.”The Chinese Embassy in Ottawa declined to comment.Sheng Xue, whose pen name is Mandarin for “abundant snow,” arrived in Canada in August 1989 on a visa to study journalism.But while she had left China, she could not leave China behind.Haunted by the sight of soldiers shooting into a crowd close to her family’s apartment during the Tiananmen Square massacre in June of that year, Sheng Xue abandoned her study plans and threw herself into the burgeoning Chinese democracy movement in Toronto. She helped form a local branch of the Federation for a Democratic China, which at its height had 3,000 members in 25 countries.Despite having forgone a degree, Sheng Xue broke into journalism and fashioned a successful career as a writer. But she was best known for her activism — leading protests, lobbying governments and helping fellow activists with their asylum cases.In 2012, Canada’s immigration minister gave her a medal for “extraordinary contributions to the country.” A month later, she was elected president of the federation.The first conference she hosted as the group’s president should have been a moment of glory. Hundreds came from across the globe.The moment she remembers best, however, is stepping off the stage and finding herself surrounded by colleagues holding cellphones. They were showing her emails they had just received, with various photos of her half-naked.Except they were obvious fakes.In one photo, Sheng Xue’s face was pasted onto another woman’s body. Another email included a supposed love letter from her to an activist in Australia, so crass, it seemed a parody. The sender appeared to be yet another activist, Chin Jin, but he said the email was a fake.It was a portent of the harassment to come.There were sex-wanted ads posted in Sheng Xue’s name. Lurid stories about her sex life. Nude photos were published on a new Twitter account, of higher quality than the first ones, and harder to dismiss out of hand.Some seemed to capture her kissing the Australian activist, Xiaogang Zhang, although both say they are fakes.The timing seemed beyond coincidence.“There has been a pattern,” said Jie Chen, an associate professor of international relations at the University of Western Australia who studies the Chinese democracy movement. Pointing a finger at the Chinese Communist Party, he said, “Whoever is doing well, whoever seems to be effective in damaging the reputation of the C.C.P., all of a sudden they will get attacked very systematically.”The attacks appear to exploit tensions within the dissident movement, where Sheng Xue is a polarizing figure.“People who love her, really love her,” said Michael Stainton, the retired president of the Taiwanese Human Rights Association of Canada. “People who despise her, really despise her.”Many of her attackers are former friends and colleagues. But in some cases they say their identities were stolen.Zhu Rui, a Chinese-Canadian author, began questioning Sheng Xue back in 2010, after the two traveled together to Dharamsala, India.Since then, Ms. Zhu has penned many critical blog posts and assembled two e-books about Sheng Xue, accusing her of lying, personally profiting off refugee applicants and events, and being a fake witness to the Tiananmen Square massacre, among other things.But in 2011, Ms. Zhu said, someone hacked into her computer, stole an unpublished essay about Sheng Xue and sent it to a dissident group posing as her.Similarly, Liu Shaofu, an elder of the democracy movement, said an impostor opened a Twitter account with his name and photo to post criticism of Sheng Xue, including one fake nude photo.Mr. Liu had collaborated with Sheng Xue for years, even living in her basement, but they had a public falling out in 2013.“I am the real Liu Shaofu,” he wrote in his first tweet after setting up a different account in June 2014. “Don’t you feel ashamed you sent out so many tweets in my name?”[Want more Canadian coverage in your inbox? Sign up for the Canada Letter newsletter.]Perhaps Sheng Xue’s most vocal critic is Fei Liangyong, a former federation president living in Germany who has accused her of a raft of moral failings, including “sexual impropriety and general wickedness.”“To not criticize her would run counter to my democratic ideas and bring shame on my lifelong struggle for democracy and constitutional government in China,” he said in an email.Mr. Fei’s essays have been widely republished on anonymous anti-Sheng Xue blogs. But he said he did not know who was behind them. A Twitter account with his name and photo, which Mr. Fei said he did not create, posted links to one of the blogs.Many fellow activists, even those who have themselves been targeted by the Chinese government, believe some of the accusations against Sheng Xue.“The Chinese government tries all means to marginalize, to silence and detain Chinese activists, in China and outside,” said Teng Biao, a civil rights lawyer who escaped China in 2012 and now lives in New Jersey.But, he added, “what happened to Sheng Xue might be a little complicated, because as far as I know, some claims are true.”Taken together, a pattern emerges: Doubt is turned into distrust, and dislike into loathing.“It’s called blowing on the hot coals,” said Mr. Bequelin of Amnesty International.Sheng Xue learned the Chinese government had her on its black list in 1996, when she tried to return to Beijing. She was stopped at the airport, interrogated and sent back to Canada the next day.Since then, it has become clear she remains a target, and at least three comrades in Canada report pressure from Chinese security services over their ties to her.One, Yi Jun, said every time he returned to China, he was taken to tea by members of the Communist security bureau. “They say Sheng Xue is very counterrevolutionary and a very bad person,” said Mr. Yi, the president of the federation’s Toronto branch.Another dissident, Leon Liang, said his wife back in Shenzhen was visited regularly by the authorities and given a warning: “If I didn’t inform on Sheng Xue, they would take her job.”The attacks on Sheng Xue have taken a toll not just on her but on the dissident movement itself. The federation, which had already dwindled to about 100 members, split in two in 2017, with Mr. Fei forming a second group. Sheng Xue has stepped down as president.The fight was so public and ugly, it tarnished everyone.One member in Germany distributed an “investigation” a year after the death of Sheng Xue’s mother, claiming that she had pimped out her young daughters, and that it was the source of Sheng Xue’s moral bankruptcy.“I really lament the fact the organization founded by Tiananmen Square leaders and intellectuals has degenerated to such a miserable state,” said Mr. Chen, the University of Western Australia professor.Few dissidents will fail to get the message, said Michel Juneau-Katsuya, a former Canadian intelligence officer specializing in China: “If you participate and support these people, look what I can do to you. Your local government won’t be able to protect you.”Sheng Xue continues her activism, but her health has been declining. She has met with doctors about heart palpitations and headaches. She never found an effective defense against the campaign, which she dismisses in totality as lies.Some of her supporters formed a “Friends of Sheng Xue” organization, declaring the attacks a “threat to Canada’s sovereignty and security.”They got nowhere.In its report, Amnesty International urged the Canadian government to fashion a “comprehensive approach to addressing this problem,” and suggested a complaint hotline.That has not happened.In 2016, a Chinese-Canadian human rights lawyer, Guo Guoting, volunteered himself as an arbiter between Sheng Xue and Mr. Fei. He considers both friends.Mr. Guo moved into Sheng Xue’s home for a month and began researching the attacks. But his computer was hacked, he said, and “all the documents disappeared.”He never published his report.Research was contributed by Emile Dirks in Toronto and Karoline Kan in Beijing.



      By JONATHAN MAHLER and 
    
JIM RUTENBERG

APRIL 3, 2019

President Trump’s election made the Murdoch family more powerful than ever. But the bitter struggle between James and Lachlan threatened to tear the company apart.


          
            Part 2: Internal Divisions
            
        
        President Trump’s election made the Murdoch family more powerful than ever. But the bitter struggle between James and Lachlan threatened to tear the company apart.
          
      By JONATHAN MAHLER and JIM RUTENBERG APRIL 3, 2019This is Part 2 of a three-part story. Go back and read Part 1.In a matter of months, Rupert Murdoch had married a former supermodel, led Britain’s historic vote to break with the European Union and played a pivotal role in the American election. He now had a close relationship with the British prime minister, Theresa May, and an even closer one with the incoming American president, Donald J. Trump. But his media empire was more vulnerable than ever. Netflix, Amazon, Apple and a host of other new technology companies were streaming content directly to consumers and were growing at unabated rates across the globe. It was an overwhelming existential challenge to legacy media companies like 21st Century Fox. Once viewed as a global colossus, Murdoch’s empire was now in danger of being too small. He desperately needed international scale to compete. The answer seemed obvious: The Murdochs had to take full control of Sky.With annual revenues of some $16 billion, Sky was the largest pay-TV provider in Britain and across Europe. The Murdochs currently owned only 39 percent of it, and that share already generated the company three times the revenue of Fox News. What’s more, Sky had its own 24-hour news channel in Britain, Sky News, which could be built into a global news network to take on the Murdochs’ longtime rival, the publicly financed BBC.For James, who would be leading the Sky acquisition, the potential deal also represented something more personal: an opportunity for redemption. He tried to buy Sky five years earlier, in part by forging a close alliance with David Cameron, then a Conservative member of Parliament who was eyeing the prime ministership. What began with Cameron’s dropping by a Murdoch family vacation near the Greek isle of Santorini turned into a mutually beneficial friendship between James and the candidate. The aims of both parties were clear. Cameron wanted the support of the Murdochs. James wanted Ofcom, the British regulatory agency that would rule on whether the Murdochs were “fit and proper” operators of Sky, out of his way. With the 2010 election approaching, Cameron publicly promised that under a Conservative government, “Ofcom as we know it will cease to exist.” Not long after, James summoned Cameron to the George, a private club in the Mayfair area of London, to tell him that The Sun would reverse 12 years of support for the Labor Party and endorse him. (James and Cameron have each denied that there was any quid pro quo for the endorsement.) But just as James was getting all of the pieces in place, the phone-hacking scandal broke. He and his father were hauled in front of Parliament, and James was forced to withdraw their $12 billion bid for Sky. Ofcom survived.[Read 6 takeaways from this story.]Lachlan and others inside 21st Century Fox were concerned about James’s leading this second Sky bid, given how closely associated he had been with the hacking scandal and with the family’s first failed attempt to gain full control of the satellite company. But James, who knew the company best, was adamant, and in December 2016, he struck a new deal with the owners of Sky. The lawyers for 21st Century Fox, Allen &amp; Overy, sent a lengthy memo to Karen Bradley, Britain’s secretary of state for culture, media and sport, detailing why this bid was different from the earlier one. Not only had the Murdochs shut down The News of the World, the newspaper that had been found guilty of widespread hacking; they had also divided the empire into two different entities: News Corp and 21st Century Fox. The company that would be purchasing Sky, 21st Century Fox, had thus been separated from the family’s newspapers. Further, the lawyers wrote that the company’s culture had changed substantially since the hacking scandal: It “has adopted strong governance measures and controls to ensure it meets the highest standards of corporate conduct.” James expressed similar confidence on a conference call with Wall Street analysts: “We do think that this passes regulatory muster,” he said.One other factor made the proposed deal especially attractive. Thanks to Brexit, the Murdochs would be getting full ownership of Sky at the steeply discounted price of $14.8 billion if the deal went through. The British government was paralyzed, unable to reach an agreement to implement the break with the European bloc. Foreign companies were pulling out of Britain, destabilizing the country’s job market and the economy and, in turn, significantly depressing the value of the English pound — and with it, the price of Sky’s shares.All that needed to happen was for the government to approve the deal. With the Sky bid once again pending before Ofcom, James embarked on a campaign of contrition and humility designed to convince the British establishment that he and his family business could be trusted to own Sky.Even as James was pursuing his bid to take full control of Sky in Britain, the company’s Australian division — Lachlan’s domain — was closing a much smaller but still significant deal for the family to take full control of a different Sky subsidiary: Sky News Australia, which it jointly owned with two Australian media companies. It was the country’s only 24-hour cable news channel and an unexploited opportunity for influence on another continent.The Murdochs’ newspaper holdings accounted for some 60 percent of the Australian print market, and included the country’s sole national general-interest paper, The Australian. As the face of this continental newspaper empire, Lachlan wielded an enormous amount of political power in the country. Over the previous decade, Murdoch papers helped push out two different prime ministers, Kevin Rudd and Julia Gillard. When Gillard’s treasurer, Wayne Swan, was worried that the Murdoch attacks were hurting the national economy, he sought out Lachlan to make an appeal, Swan told us. Lachlan built alliances, too, drawing close to Tony Abbott, a member of Parliament whose right-wing politics and confrontational style had earned him frequent comparisons to Newt Gingrich. When Abbott served as prime minister, from 2013 to 2015, he would discuss legislation with the Murdochs’ editors — and occasionally the Murdochs themselves — before introducing it, the former editor of The Australian, Chris Mitchell, wrote in his memoir.Now Murdoch’s Australian empire was expanding into cable news. The country’s dominant broadcaster was the Australian Broadcast Corporation, a publicly financed institution modeled after the BBC. Its reporting was similarly straight and sober. Sky News Australia — which also airs in New Zealand — was, notionally, a competitor, but its audience was small, even by Australian standards. Still, the network offered Lachlan his own opportunity for redemption: After his split with his father, he presided over the implosion of the Australian TV network Ten. His failed efforts to save it included giving a reality-TV dance show to his wife and signing off on a weekly show for a controversial right-wing firebrand, Andrew Bolt. A columnist at the Murdoch-owned Herald Sun, Bolt had impressed Lachlan years earlier at a company retreat in Pebble Beach, Calif., when he aggressively questioned Al Gore after Gore presented his slide show on climate change. When Bolt was awarded his show on Ten, he was facing charges for violating the country’s Racial Discrimination Act by writing that light-skinned Aborigines were claiming indigenous status for personal gain. (Bolt was found guilty, and the publisher was forced to print a lengthy statement acknowledging the offense.)With the acquisition of Sky News Australia, Lachlan would have a second chance. The Murdochs won full control of the network in December 2016, while James’s Sky deal in Britain was still pending. Sky News Australia’s programming had historically been politically balanced. But as the Murdochs’ takeover approached, the network began increasing the amount of right-wing commentary it broadcast during prime time.Not long before the deal closed, Lachlan’s old Ten host Andrew Bolt was brought in to do a nightly political program. Immediately after the purchase, Sky signed up as a host and commentator Caroline Marcus, a columnist for The Daily Telegraph of Sydney who had supported a ban on burkinis in France and lamented what she described as reverse discrimination against whites in cultural debates. Ross Cameron — a former member of the Australian Parliament prone to anti-gay slurs who later spoke at an event hosted by a far-right organization that describes itself as Australia’s leading anti-Islamic group — co-hosted a program called “The Outsiders.” He and his fellow hosts described themselves as “Trump’s Aussie mates” and half-joked that their show would provide “absolutely no balance whatsoever.” After one host, Mark Latham, was fired for making a series of offensive comments, including a homophobic remark about a high school student who participated in a video for International Women’s Day, he ran successfully for state office as a member of One Nation, the country’s far-right anti-immigrant party. Soon after Lachlan took over, an old political ally, Tony Abbott’s former chief of staff, Peta Credlin, became a prime-time host on Sky. Still closely allied with Abbott, she used her platform to argue that Australia should slow down its efforts to combat climate change, take a stricter line on immigration and resist the liberal drift of Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull, a bitter Abbott rival.Known as Sky After Dark, the opinion-heavy, almost-uniformly right-wing lineup was an entirely new phenomenon in Australian TV. Its nighttime ratings spiked as the network quickly became required viewing for the country’s political class.By the early months of 2017, Murdoch’s interim leadership of Fox News, which started with Ailes’s ouster before the election, was now beginning to look permanent. He installed beneath him two of Ailes’s loyal deputies: Jack Abernethy, who was in charge of operations, and Bill Shine, a close friend of Hannity’s who had been overseeing the opinion lineup but would now also run the entire news operation. Neither was known for his independent thinking. A rival executive called Shine “the butler” because of his uncanny tendency to appear at Ailes’s side to address his needs. Even as Murdoch was elevating Shine, numerous accusations — some of them in lawsuits against Ailes — were surfacing that Shine had protected and even enabled Ailes during his years of allegedly sexually harassing women at the network. (Shine has denied any wrongdoing.)After the election, Murdoch moved even more forcefully to support Trump. When Greta Van Susteren, a former CNN host and a somewhat ideologically unpredictable presence in the Fox lineup, left the network, Murdoch enthusiastically endorsed the idea of replacing her at 7 p.m. with Tucker Carlson — a conservative writer and a founder of the Daily Caller website who was earning praise from white nationalists heading into Trump’s election. Murdoch marked the occasion by taking Carlson out to brunch with Jerry Hall in New York. When Megyn Kelly, who sealed her fame by clashing with Trump, left Fox in early 2017, Murdoch opted not to replace her with another Trump antagonist.Murdoch also kept in close touch with the White House. He and Kushner had always spoken frequently, but now he was in regular contact with Trump too. Trump enjoyed getting his calls. As someone who prized wealth and power, Trump had long admired Murdoch; for decades, it had invariably been Trump who called Murdoch, asking for help. Now it was Murdoch reaching out to Trump on a regular basis. “Rupert, Rupert!” Trump would say, talking on the phone with Murdoch in the Oval Office, according to a former White House official who overheard the conversations. “You love the action, don’t you? You can’t get enough of this shit.”Trump was also spending a lot of time on the phone with Hannity, who regularly called the president after his show. Trump had often found him to be too much of a supplicant for his purposes: He preferred his more combative interviews with Bill O’Reilly, which he felt better showcased his pugnaciousness, according to a former White House official. But Trump appreciated Hannity’s loyalty. The Fox host had effectively been a member of his campaign team, for instance pressing Trump’s personal lawyer, Michael Cohen, to be on the lookout for former girlfriends and employees who might make trouble for the candidate ahead of the election, two people familiar with the interactions told us. (Hannity, through a Fox representative, denies having done so.) His show became a nightly hourlong campaign infomercial. Hannity’s audience was Trump’s most devoted base. In an interview with The New York Times, Ailes once described Hannity as presiding over a “segmented” show whose appeal was limited to hard-core conservatives. Now he was the network’s biggest star. He set the tone for the rest of Fox’s opinion lineup, which quickly became a nightly counterpoint to the mainstream media’s coverage of Trump.As a former media adviser, Ailes recognized that the Fox News brand depended on the perception that it was a credible alternative to the liberal media. He would even sometimes rein in his opinion hosts when their rhetoric threatened to undermine that perception. Ailes also thought that presenting a monolithic view night after night was bad television. He was careful to make sure that the network always had some hosts who challenged Republican orthodoxy at least occasionally.These were matters that did not appear to concern Murdoch. Some of the network’s news anchors could deliver at times stark counterprogramming to opinion hosts like Hannity. Shepard Smith became increasingly pointed in his critical coverage of Trump, expressing disbelief at the “lie after lie after lie” coming from the administration; the Fox anchor Chris Wallace emerged as one of the toughest interrogators of Trump surrogates and officials on television; and Bret Baier’s straight coverage regularly infuriated Trump. But the network’s prime-time lineup is its biggest draw, and by the fall of 2017, that lineup was notably more pro-Trump than it was under Ailes, with Carlson at 8, Hannity at 9 and the right-wing radio star Laura Ingraham at 10. They were joined, of course, by the morning hosts on “Fox &amp; Friends,” the show with which Trump always started his day.Years earlier, when James was fighting in Britain for the first failed Sky deal, he expressed contempt for government meddling in the media’s affairs and impugned the nationally esteemed BBC as a “chilling” media monolith. “The only reliable, durable and perpetual guarantor of independence,” he said in a lecture at the annual Edinburgh International Television Festival, “is profit.” In the spring of 2017, as James made the rounds with civic and business leaders in London, he took a far more conciliatory tack. He praised the BBC and assured former critics that he respected Britain’s strict regulations designed to ensure impartiality in England’s news coverage. At an annual conference held by the influential media analyst Claire Enders, a leading critic of his first Sky bid, James professed an “aspiration for us to be better” and promised to “behave in the way that we imagined we would want to and be expected to in the future.”Even as James was in the midst of this campaign, the company’s behavior was once again threatening to jeopardize the Sky deal. In April 2017, The New York Times reported that the Fox News host Bill O’Reilly and the network had doled out some $13 million to address multiple complaints from women about O’Reilly’s lewd comments and unwanted advances and that Fox had nevertheless renewed his contract for $25 million. Ofcom was soon receiving submissions from O’Reilly’s victims. Lisa Bloom, a lawyer representing one of his accusers, drew a direct link between Fox’s sexual-harassment scandals and the phone hacking: Both, she wrote, revealed “a lack of oversight, intervention and decency.”After James and several other senior executives from 21st Century Fox were grilled about the company’s culture by Ofcom regulators in the agency’s headquarters overlooking the Thames, the Murdochs scrambled to protect their Sky bid. They quickly fired O’Reilly, giving him a $25 million exit package. When rumors started circulating that Ailes’s once-loyal lieutenant, Shine, might be next, Hannity tried to protect him, sensing that his old friend and ally was about to become a victim of the Murdochs’ broader global agenda: “Somebody HIGH UP AND INSIDE FNC is trying to get an innocent person fired,” he tweeted, presumably referring to James. Shine was pushed out, too.In June 2017, Ofcom finally issued its report on the acquisition: It recommended that the deal be reviewed by yet another regulatory body. The Competition and Markets Authority would investigate whether Sky would give the Murdochs too much influence over the British media.The decision set off still more scrambling. To prevent any potential problems with the British regulators, Fox executives directed a furious Hannity to dial down his coverage of the death of a Democratic National Committee staff member named Seth Rich, which had spurred wild conspiracy theories and wide public criticism, as well as an advertiser boycott. The Murdochs also pulled Fox News off the air in Britain, where it had been the subject of several formal complaints of “unfair and inaccurate content.” (A separate investigation by British regulators found that Sean Hannity and Tucker Carlson had violated British impartiality standards: Hannity for ridiculing critics of Trump’s proposed travel ban without presenting a full version of their views or giving them an opportunity to respond, and Carlson for allowing Nigel Farage to make baseless claims that British officials had failed to protect “thousands of underage girls” from rape and abuse by Muslims.)In September 2017, James delivered the keynote address at the Royal Television Society’s annual convention in Cambridge, using the occasion to make the case for the Sky deal and to sketch out his vision for the future of the global media company that he still hoped to run. He ticked off some of 21st Century Fox’s better-known brands — National Geographic, FX, Fox Sports, Sky Atlantic — and described how these and other outlets had “explored the opioid epidemic, gender identity and race relations” and “told powerful stories of slavery in America, the rights of women in Pakistan and the coming and inevitable exploration of Mars.” Absent from his list, and from his entire address, was one of 21st Century Fox’s best-known brands, Fox News. In the question-and-answer session that followed, an interviewer speculated about why the deal was taking so long. “I wonder if the message that comes through,” she said, “is that you presided over this rotten culture at News International and, again, at Fox News, and that people just don’t trust you. Is that what you think the message is?”That November, a bipartisan coalition of British members of Parliament took their concerns about the deal to a hearing in Victoria House on Southampton Row, the headquarters of the Competition and Markets Authority. They were led by Ed Miliband, a former leader of the Labor Party and a supporter of antimonopoly media legislation who had tangled with the Murdochs a couple of years earlier, when The Sun fulminated against his candidacy for prime minister, dubbing him Red Ed and Shameful Mili. They highlighted Fox’s promotion of the Seth Rich conspiracy and its airing of false claims that there were zones in London controlled by Shariah law. If the Murdochs gained full control of the satellite broadcast company, the M.P.s warned, they could transform its 24-hour news channel, Sky News, into a British version of Fox News. The question of the Murdochs’ influence over the media led, inevitably, to the question of the Murdochs’ influence over the country’s politics. “I know Rupert,” Ken Clarke, a member of Parliament, said. “The idea that Rupert is interested in a detached influence in the politics of the countries where he owns his media — anybody who knew him, you could not put that proposition to them without them breaking into a very broad smile.”In January 2018, the Competition and Markets Authority issued its ruling on 21st Century Fox’s acquisition of Sky: Full ownership of the company would give the Murdochs “too much control over news providers in the U.K. across all media platforms (TV, radio, online and newspapers) and therefore too much influence over public opinion and the political agenda.” It was a full-blown repudiation, setting up a final ruling that no member of the Murdoch family should ever be allowed to serve in any capacity at Sky — not even on the company’s board. It would be an especially harsh blow to James, who was serving as Sky’s chairman at the time.For Lachlan, it was a validation of his view that James was the wrong public face of the campaign for Sky, reminding the public of the hacking scandal and all the hostility toward the Murdochs it had stirred up. For James, the failure of the deal was a bitter vindication of his view that his family’s empire could not survive its own politics and culture.In early August 2017, Rupert Murdoch invited Robert A. Iger, the chief executive of Disney, to Moraga, his $28.8 million Tuscan-style vineyard estate in the hills of Bel Air, and offered him a glass of wine. The two moguls commiserated about the threat they both faced from the new breed of tech giants and what they could do to confront it. Disney also wanted to get bigger. Talk about combining some of their assets soon evolved into something much more significant: a conversation about Iger’s buying 21st Century Fox, the Hollywood studio that Murdoch wrested away from the Colorado oilman Marvin Davis in 1985. For 65 years, Murdoch had been ruthlessly expanding his empire. He was now thinking about doing the most un-Murdochian thing imaginable: He was going to shrink it.It was, in a sense, an admission of defeat. Murdoch’s ambitions had been subverted, finally and definitively, by his own failings — the family squabbles, the reactionary drift of Fox News, the Sky News debacle. But he had a new plan. He would cleave off the Hollywood studio that was responsible for about two-thirds of the company’s revenues and keep his main tools of influence, his newspapers and Fox News. James would move on, perhaps following 21st Century Fox to Disney, and he and Lachlan would run the remaining leaner, scrappier company together like a pirate ship.The decision was driven not only by the imperatives of the business but also by those of the Murdoch family. Joint custody of the empire wasn’t working. It was easy for the company’s senior executives to see which one Murdoch preferred — Murdoch’s face would light up when Lachlan would roll his chair nearer to him at meetings — and they quickly learned which son to go to with questions and requests. (“And Lachlan?” Murdoch would ask, whenever executives told him that they had spoken to James about something.) As James saw it, his brother was mainly interested in the unique fringe benefits and trappings of power that came with the job. He bristled when Lachlan built a rock-climbing wall on an old soundstage on the studio lot and hired a private security guard to accompany him everywhere. Lachlan, meanwhile, chafed at James’s fixation on corporate governance, which he felt was inconsistent with the company’s swashbuckling spirit.The Trump presidency was also exposing a deeper divide between the brothers. James was becoming increasingly troubled by Fox News. He didn’t object to the idea of a conservative news network, but he did object to what he felt it had evolved into at certain hours: a political weapon with no editorial standards or concern for the value of truth and a knee-jerk defender of the president’s rhetoric and policies. After Trump issued his executive order banning immigration from some Muslim-majority countries in early 2017, James pushed his father and Lachlan to agree to write a companywide memo reassuring its Muslim employees in the United States and abroad. James wanted the note to forcefully and unequivocally establish their opposition to the policy and to tell employees who felt threatened by it that the company would do everything in its power to protect them. Lachlan wanted it to be less confrontational and to not specifically mention Trump or the Muslim ban, which Fox News’s opinion hosts were defending night after night. Even getting Lachlan’s approval for the watered-down version that ultimately went out was “like pulling teeth,” James would later say privately, according to people close to him.Months later, when Trump blamed “both sides” for the violence at a white-supremacist rally in Charlottesville, Va., saying that there were some “very fine people” among the white supremacists, Kathryn insisted that they write their own open letter of opposition, without consulting with his brother or father first. “If we’re not going to say something about [expletive] Nazis marching in Virginia, when are we going to say something?” she told James, according to a person familiar with the conversation.Kathryn had historically kept her complaints about the network and the business inside the family, in accordance with the unofficial Murdoch code of conduct. But Fox opinion hosts’ embrace of nativism and white nationalism during Trump’s rise had eroded her restraint. Her frustration with the family business occasionally broke through on her Twitter account. She wrote supportive replies to posts from the Parkland shooting survivor and gun-control activist David Hogg — who had been taunted by Laura Ingraham over his college rejections and was leading an advertising boycott against her show — as well as from Never Trump Republicans like Bill Kristol who had left the network. And she complimented a Washington Post opinion article that noted that the neo-Nazi website The Daily Stormer had praised Carlson for “covering all our talking points.”The resentment that had been steadily building between James and Lachlan over the past two and a half years exploded in the fall of 2018, as the Disney deal became a possibility, then a probability and then a reality.James instantly seized on the idea, seeing it both as a way out of the family business and as a possible route to the biggest job in the media. He started speaking with Iger separately over lunches and meetings, discussing among other things what role he might play at Disney. Iger was in his late 60s; his contract was set to expire in the summer of 2019, and the company had not yet named a successor. A top job in Disney’s corporate hierarchy could put James in the running to take over. It had long been his dream to run his family’s empire, but Disney, when combined with 21st Century Fox, would be more than three times its size — the largest media conglomerate in the world, one with no ideological baggage to prevent it from growing and evolving further. James immediately championed the deal during his conversations with fellow 21st Century Fox board members.Lachlan was furious. His father was talking about dismantling the empire not even three years after coaxing him back from Australia to run it, an empire that had taken a lifetime to build. He argued that 21st Century Fox was big enough to compete as it was. The smaller piece of the empire that he would be left with — a network with an aging audience in the increasingly anachronistic business of cable television — was hardly a growth business. As the talks with Iger progressed, Lachlan’s opposition hardened. “Why the [expletive] would I want to run this company?” he told people close to him. Lachlan’s anger at his father boiled over during a dinner in Manhattan in the fall of 2017, three people who were familiar with the incident told us. “If you take one more call on this deal, you will not have a son!” he threatened. “I will never talk to you again.” (Representatives for Murdoch and Lachlan denied that he made these threats.)Over the course of our reporting, we spoke to a dozen people with direct knowledge of the Disney negotiations. What emerged were two diametrically different narratives of how the next act in the history of the Murdoch dynasty unfolded. Those closer to James say that Lachlan saw his birthright slipping away and tried to undermine the deal, even encouraging a rival bid from a different company that wouldn’t buy as many of 21st Century Fox’s assets. Those closer to Lachlan say that James was pushing the deal forward to advance his own career ambitions and was ready to settle for less than they could get for their father’s life’s work. Lachlan’s perception was affirmed, they said, when his father told him that he had received a call from a banker on the deal, reporting that James was trying to make his future at Disney part of the negotiations. Murdoch personally assured Iger that it wasn’t. (People closer to James say that there was no attempt to make the deal contingent on his role at Disney and that his primary concern was reaching the best agreement for the family and the shareholders.)The family’s dysfunctional dynamics were readily apparent to Iger. Seeing James as a strong champion of the deal, he kept him close during the negotiations but never committed to offering him a specific, high-level position; publicly, he said only that he was considering the issue.Negotiations nearly fell apart in October, according to Securities and Exchange Commission filings, when Murdoch called Iger to say that Disney’s valuation of the company was “inadequate” and that talks should “cease.” But they kept talking, meeting in London — Iger had come for the premiere of Disney’s “Star Wars: The Last Jedi” — to iron out more details. On Dec. 13, 2017, they announced an initial deal valued at $52.4 billion.Accompanying the announcement was a photograph of Iger and Murdoch, their arms placed awkwardly on each other’s shoulders, standing on the rooftop of a London building, St. Paul’s Cathedral looming in the background. It was a peculiar image: the mogul who built the country’s most polarizing, rage-stoking political brand beside the one who presided over a media conglomerate whose very name was synonymous with equanimity and uplift. Inside the Murdoch empire, the incompatibility of Fox News and 21st Century Fox had long been a source of private complaint and ironic humor: “The Simpsons,” a Fox show, once parodied Fox News with a rolling news ticker featuring headlines like “Do Democrats Cause Cancer?” and “Study: 92 Percent of Democrats Are Gay.” Showrunners on the West Coast would press the Murdochs to get the network under control when a Fox News host would say something they considered offensive, for instance during the network’s coverage of the Charlottesville rally. But for many 21st Century Fox executives, the offenses had become a nightly occurrence during the Trump era, as the network’s opinion hosts fueled white resentment and anti-immigrant furor. Now, 21st Century Fox would be merged into a company that famously and assiduously avoided politics.As for Fox News, the network would have one fewer corporate impediment preventing it from giving its viewers what they wanted.Continue reading Part 3, when the Disney deal enriches the Murdochs and strips their empire down its essence: a hard-core right-wing news machine.April 3, 2019April 3, 2019April 3, 2019An earlier version of this article misstated the given name of a media analyst. She is Claire Enders, not Alice.Jonathan Mahler is a staff writer for the magazine who has previously written about the relationship between CNN and Donald Trump. Jim Rutenberg is the Times media columnist and a writer at large for the magazine, writing about media and political organizations.Photo illustrations by Joan WongPhoto illustrations by Joan Wong

Supported byCrimeBy Marilyn StasioI’m down with cannibals. Snakes, not so much. So it wasn’t until the end of John Sandford’s new Lucas Davenport novel, NEON PREY (Putnam, $29), when that cannibal looks into the “cold black eyes of a Crotalus scutulatus,” that I felt well and truly revolted. Sandford has never been one to shrink from violence; and until that point, he’d been his usual entertaining self in this hard-core adventure. He shines, in fact, when writing about partially eaten corpses rotting in the Louisiana marshes, bullet-riddled bodies baking in the Las Vegas desert, and one especially bloody shootout with the main bad guy blasting into “a virtual wall of humanity” in a crowded Vegas shopping mall.Davenport is an inspired creation. A deputy United States marshal who’s apparently free to choose his own cases, he backed into law enforcement after making a pile of money designing computer games. So it makes sense that he should thrive on complicated cross-country manhunts involving colorful characters driving eye-catching automobiles. At one point, when the men he is pursuing are low on cash (“blow and hookers and casinos”) they plan one last big robbery of a rich guy named Harrelson, chosen in large part because his ride is a taxi-yellow Porsche.Vegas is a great place for Sandford’s flamboyant hustlers, grifters, thieves and killers. Even the innocents have a flair for drama. When things get hot in Los Angeles, a smart girlfriend of one of the mobsters power-packs, grabbing money first, then clothes, shoes, birth-control pills, sunglasses, “and a bunch of bras and underpants from Victoria’s Secret,” tossing it all in the back of her boyfriend’s Cadillac Escalade before taking off for Sin City. That’s class.Not many characters are as likable as this lady, but they’re all watchable, if not entirely human. After doing away with just about everyone in his antisocial circle, even that cannibal killer admits to feeling lonely.♦Boy, those Regency swells didn’t fool around, did they? Viscount Ashworth lived a riotously debauched life before he was bound hand and foot in silken restraints and hacked to death upon his own luxurious bed in C. S. Harris’s latest drawing-room mystery, WHO SLAYS THE WICKED (Berkley, $26). The licentious nobleman was married to a close relation of Sebastian St. Cyr, the hero of this always interesting historical series who now feels duty-bound to find the murderer. Ever the gentleman, this enlightened aristocrat sincerely wishes he could pin the killing on some outraged husband. “But under the circumstances, I’m afraid we’re looking for a woman,” he says, “probably someone who took fright at what Ashworth was doing to her.”St. Cyr is a brawler and his tough sleuthing is admirable; but this series is a favorite because of Harris’s unflinching studies of the poor and the wretched who share the London streets with such worthies as the Grand Duchess Catherine, sister of the czar of Russia. William Bell, the malodorous “night-soil collector” who cleans out the city’s drains and cesspits, is not only one of the most remarkable of these characters, but also a fount of information on how London’s elaborate sewer system really worked.♦Cora Felton, the cantankerous old dear in LIGHTS! CAMERA! PUZZLES! (Pegasus Crime, $25.95) and other of Parnell Hall’s riddle mysteries, couldn’t solve a crossword puzzle if you fed her a dictionary. But she looks the part of a jolly puzzle lady, and hey, she needs the money. With the word-smithery in the capable hands of her friend, Cora is free to crash auditions for a “rinky-dinky” film version of “Confessions of a Trophy Husband,” a memoir written by her ex-spouse, Melvin.Grouch that she is, Cora pronounces the movie a dud without even reading the script. The project gets a whole lot more interesting for her when a production assistant is murdered at the theater and her boyfriend pitches himself out a window. The storytelling is light and breezy, if short on much sense. But Cora earns her sleuthing cred when she takes one look at the boyfriend’s desk and pronounces his “suicide” a murder: “A guy doesn’t off himself with tickets to ‘Hamilton.’”  Brilliant deduction. Case closed.♦One always eats well in Jean-Luc Bannalec’s delicious Brittany mysteries. That’s because Commissaire Georges Dupin of the Commissariat de Police Concarneau can’t resist a good provincial meal. In Sorcha McDonagh’s translation of THE MISSING CORPSE (Minotaur, $25.99), the Parisian detective finds himself in Port Belon, an “enchanted little village that was somehow divorced from time and the real world.” There’s that, of course; but aside from being plagued by thieves making off with its pristine sand, this picturesque region is also noted for the oysters harvested from its brackish estuaries. So count on Dupin feasting on “large and small sea snails, large and small langoustines, pink prawns, half a large crab, a whole spider crab, and of course: Belon oysters” — all at the same meal and in the company of an aging film star (or possibly her twin sister) who found a corpse that keeps disappearing. If this isn’t heaven, it’s close enough. Pass the vinegar.Marilyn Stasio has covered crime fiction for the Book Review since 1988. Her column appears twice a month.Follow New York Times Books on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram, sign up for our newsletter or our literary calendar. And listen to us on the Book Review podcast.

Supported byGood Thursday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)Six months ago, the murder and dismemberment of the journalist Jamal Khashoggi by agents of Saudi Arabia cast a heavy cloud over the kingdom. But now the international business community is revving up its work with the Saudis again, Michael de la Merced, Stanley Reed and Dai Wakabayashi of the NYT report.Business leaders had withdrawn from a government-led conference in Riyadh last fall, but that didn’t mean that their Saudi projects stopped:• Google continued to work on a data center there, meant to support cloud-computing services in the Middle East.• Blackstone still plans to invest from a $40 billion infrastructure fund that is counting on $20 billion in capital from the Saudis.• Saudi Aramco, the state-owned oil giant, sold $12 billion worth of bonds to international investors last week — on the same day that the U.S. barred 16 Saudis suspected of participating in Mr. Khashoggi’s death from entering the country.Executives say they’re trying to support the Saudi people. “It’s the right thing to do for the people of Saudi Arabia,” Adam Aron, the C.E.O. of AMC Theaters, told the NYT this month when discussing plans to open movie theaters in the country. “They have been deprived of going to the movies for decades.”But there’s also plenty of money to be made. Saudi Arabia has 33 million residents, most of them under 30, and it’s eager to attract foreign investment to help it revamp its economy.Whether Saudi Arabia can sustain this momentum remains to be seen. “For people to invest in Saudi Arabia, they need a belief that this country is moving in the right direction,” Roger Diwan, a vice president at IHS Markit, told the NYT. “The last 12 months have not been stellar.”Both Pinterest, the digital pin board company, and Zoom, which does videoconferencing, priced their initial public offerings above their initial price ranges yesterday.Pinterest priced its shares at $19 each, above its price range and giving it a fully diluted valuation of $12.7 billion. That means its public debut won’t be a “down round,” at below the value used for its last private fund-raising. (For Pinterest, that was $12 billion.) Bankers appeared to set the company’s initial pricing conservatively, allowing it to vault over low expectations.Zoom did better, pricing its shares at $36 apiece. That was $1 above an already raised price range, and made the company worth about $9 billion, nine times the valuation at its last private fund-raising round. Investors seems to appreciate that, unlike many other tech unicorns, it’s already profitable.The strong demand may give some investors confidence in backing further unicorn I.P.O.s. Big investors may not be swayed by apparent trends, a corporate adviser told the FT, but retail investors probably will be.The real test is still to come when the shares of the two companies start trading on the public markets today. Since Lyft went public two weeks ago, its shares have fallen about 17 percent. The Economist argues that the big question on investors’ minds is whether these companies (Zoom excepted) can ever make money.Perhaps this year’s most anticipated event in Washington starts at 9:30 a.m. Eastern, when Attorney General William Barr says he’ll unveil a redacted version of Robert Mueller’s report. Here are some things to expect:The White House already knows some of the findings, because the Justice Department shared details with President Trump’s team, the NYT reports. That has enabled the White House to prepare a speedy rebuttal, but raises questions about whether the Justice Department acted appropriately.The report will be “lightly” redacted, the WaPo reports. It’s expected to lay out a blow-by-blow account of potential obstruction of justice by the president, including analyses of tweets, private threats and more. (The special counsel himself declined to offer a conclusion on whether Mr. Trump broke the law.)It will be delivered to Congress on CDs. Yes, in 2019. The information will then be posted on the special counsel’s website sometime after noon.Expect publishers to rush out physical copies of Mr. Mueller’s tome. Pity the typesetters who have to deal with the redactions. And Amazon is expected to start on an audiobook version as soon as there’s something to read aloud.Did central banks kill inflation off with high interest rates? Did weak economies cause it to shrivel away? Or is it just hiding? Peter Coy of Bloomberg Businessweek went hunting for answers.• While hyperinflation is destructive, a little inflation “greases the wheels of commerce,” Mr. Coy writes. It gives the appearance of rising wages and helps central banks encourage borrowing by cutting rates.• “The Fed has repeatedly missed the target it set in January 2012 of 2 percent annual change in the price index for personal consumption expenditures. Once you strip out volatile food and energy prices, inflation by that measure has reached 2 percent just one month (July 2018) in the past seven years.”• “Researchers are finding that low inflation is in large part a consequence of globalization or automation or deunionization — or a combination of all three — which undermine workers’ power to bargain for higher wages.”• “In other words, the capitalists killed inflation.”• There is no single obvious way to revive inflation, though aggressive fiscal policy might help. But even in countries where that’s possible, Mr. Coy writes, there’s no apparent political will for that, so the situation could persist for at least a decade.The chairman of the F.C.C., Ajit Pai, said yesterday that he would oppose China Mobile’s application to provide cell service in the U.S., Cecilia Kang of the NYT reports.China Mobile has been waiting on a decision since 2011. It wanted to connect calls between the U.S. and other nations, not to manage domestic calls.But “serious national security and law enforcement risks” were raised by China Mobile’s application, Mr. Pai said in a statement. Senior officials worry that “calls could be intercepted for surveillance and make the domestic network vulnerable to hacking and other risks,” Ms. Kang writes.An internal review and a Commerce Department recommendation pointed the same way, Mr. Pai said, “because of the potential for espionage, hacking and other security risks,” according to Ms. Kang. The F.C.C. is an independent, bipartisan agency, but “Mr. Pai, a Republican, carries tremendous sway because his party holds three of the five commission seats.”A rejection would escalate the ongoing U.S.-China feud, in which Washington has tried to limit Beijing’s increasing telecom dominance. The Trump administration had largely focused on Huawei, but clearly has added to its target list.When the iPhone maker and the modem chip giant settled a tangle of global patent lawsuits on Tuesday, they were focused on the two characters that obsess the entire tech world: 5G.Qualcomm has taken an early lead in making the chips that will let cellphones use forthcoming superfast 5G data networks, the WSJ writes; it shifted its focus to that business more than two years ago.So Apple was in a bind. Fighting Qualcomm, CNBC notes, limited its 5G options to a short and unpalatable list:• Go with Intel, its 4G supplier. But there were rumors of delays at Intel. So that could be risky.• Pick Huawei. But that would mean ignoring Washington’s concerns about national security.• Build its own. But Apple’s chip design team is relatively new, so that could take a while.Apple was seeking as much as $27 billion in damages across its lawsuits against Qualcomm, but ultimately ended up making an undisclosed one-time payment to the chip maker. That underscores 5G’s importance to Apple and its rivals.More: Huawei has promised a $600 5G smartphone.JPMorgan Chase reshuffled its executive ranks yesterday, giving two women big new roles — ones that identify them as possible successors to Jamie Dimon.• Marianne Lake, formerly the C.F.O., will lead the bank’s enormous consumer-lending division.• And her successor as C.F.O. will be Jennifer Piepszak, who led the credit-card unit.Both women gain in prominence. Ms. Lake, already considered a potential future C.E.O., can gain further cred by running one of JPMorgan’s most visible divisions.And both are seen as having the “right combination of youth and experience to potentially succeed Mr. Dimon,” David Benoit of the WSJ writes. (They’re both 49.)But don’t expect Mr. Dimon to go anywhere soon. He said in February that he plans to step down in about five years.The Treasury Department plans to hire Monica Crowley, a Fox News commentator, as its top communications official. She dropped out of contention for previous government posts amid plagiarism allegations.Deals• If T-Mobile can’t buy Sprint, one of the biggest losers would be SoftBank, which was counting on the deal to take Sprint’s debt off its books. (WSJ)• Saudi Aramco is said to be in talks to buy a stake in the petrochemicals unit of Reliance Industries, the Indian conglomerate. (FT)• Uber is reportedly near a deal for an investment in its autonomous vehicle division, which would value the unit at $7.25 billion. (WSJ)• Blackstone is reportedly planning to sell the Cosmopolitan hotel and casino in Las Vegas, and seeking $4 billion. (WSJ)• Hedge funds enjoyed their best first quarter in 13 years. (CNBC)Politics and policy• Herman Cain said he wouldn’t withdraw from consideration for a seat on the Fed’s board, despite a shortage of Senate support. (WSJ)• The Treasury Department issued new rules for tax breaks tied to opportunity zones. (NYT)• Ivanka Trump confirmed that her father had asked whether she’d like to run the World Bank, and said she turned down a nomination. (AP)• President Trump’s F.T.C. appointees don’t appear to agree with his “Made in America” vision. (NYT)Trade• The U.S. and China reportedly plan two more rounds of face-to-face trade talks, hoping for a deal by early June. (WSJ)• Beijing’s recovering economy could give it a stronger negotiating hand. (Bloomberg)• The Trump administration has cut off access to dollars for Venezuela’s central bank, further squeezing the Maduro government. (NYT)• The E.U. warned that it could impose tariffs on $20 billion worth of U.S. good as punishment for American state support of Boeing. (FT)Tech• Gov. Tony Evers of Wisconsin wants to revise his state’s deal with Foxconn. (NYT)• Gadget reviewers keep breaking Samsung’s $2,000 foldable-screen smartphone. (BBC)• India has halted downloads of the video app TikTok, saying it could harm children. (NYT)• The E.U. approved draft legislation that would require platforms to take down terrorist content within an hour of a request from the authorities. The European Parliament also passed rules that will require big tech companies to offer clearer terms of service, improve dispute-resolution programs and increase transparency. (BBC, VentureBeat)• Facebook said it may have “unintentionally uploaded” the email contacts of 1.5 million new users since May 2016. (Reuters)• Amazon is shutting its Chinese online stores in the face of stiff domestic competition. (Reuters)Best of the rest• French billionaires’ donations to rebuild Notre-Dame are fueling the resentments that animated the Yellow Vest movement. (NYT)• The Writers Guild of America has filed a lawsuit against the four major talent agencies, escalating a civil war in Hollywood. (NYT)• Deutsche Bank estimates that it handled at least 175 million euros, or about $197 million, from Russian criminals between 2011 and 2014. (FT)• How much slower would the U.S. grow without immigration? In many places, a lot. (Upshot)• The N.R.A. is reportedly mired in “secrecy, self-dealing, and greed.” (New Yorker)• Alcohol-free beer is booming. (Bloomberg)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you next week.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.

Supported byThe special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, investigated Russian election interference, ties to the Trump campaign and possible presidential obstruction of justice. His report has been released.By Peter BakerMr. Mueller examined about 10 actions by President Trump to determine whether he sought to obstruct justice but could not reach a conclusion. He found a concerted effort by Russia to interfere in the 2016 election, but established no criminal conspiracy between Mr. Trump’s campaign and Russia.The report detailed dramatic conflicts within the White House. When Mr. Trump learned of Mr. Mueller’s appointment, he slumped in his chair and said: “Oh my God. This is terrible. This is the end of my presidency.” [Read more excerpts and analysis from our reporters.]Attorney General William P. Barr offered a strong defense of Mr. Trump and said he gave the president’s lawyers access to Mr. Mueller’s report “earlier this week,” before it was released. While Mr. Mueller’s investigation is over, he reported that it has spawned 14 spinoff inquiries.At a White House event for wounded troops, Mr. Trump claimed vindication to cheers from the audience. Democrats lashed out at Mr. Barr, and said it was up to Congress to hold the president to account. Investigators examined about 10 episodes in which the president may have obstructed justice, but Mr. Mueller said he could not reach a conclusion.“The evidence we obtained about the president’s actions and intent presents difficult issues that would need to be resolved if we were making a traditional prosecutorial judgment. At the same time, if we had confidence after a thorough investigation of the facts that the president clearly did not commit obstruction of justice, we would so state. Based on the facts and the applicable legal standards, we are unable to reach that judgment. Accordingly, while this report does not conclude that the president committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him.”Mr. Barr, however, opted to reach the conclusion that Mr. Mueller would not. “After carefully reviewing the facts and legal theories outlined in the report, and in consultation with the Office of Legal Counsel and other department lawyers, the deputy attorney general and I concluded that the evidence developed by the special counsel is not sufficient to establish that the president committed an obstruction of justice offense,” Mr. Barr said at a news conference before the release of the report.Mr. Barr said that he “disagreed with some of the special counsel’s legal theories” regarding obstruction but even accepting them found no basis for a criminal charge.Among the incidents that the special counsel examined was Mr. Trump’s decision to fire James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director, in May 2017, and an attempt by the president a month later to have his White House counsel, Donald F. McGahn II, fire Mr. Mueller. He also looked at the president’s efforts to hide details of a Trump Tower meeting with Russians during the election and to pressure Jeff Sessions, then the attorney general, to reverse his decision to recuse himself from supervising the investigation.Mr. Barr said he would not stand in the way of Mr. Mueller testifying on Capitol Hill about his findings. “I have no objection to Bob Mueller testifying,” Mr. Barr said. The findings from the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, are now available to the public. The redacted report details his two-year investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election.[Get what you need to know delivered to your inbox every weekday morning.]The last two years were filled with angry clashes, outbursts, threatened resignations and false statements as Mr. Trump reacted to the investigation.After saying that Mr. Mueller’s appointment would mean “the end of my presidency,” Mr. Trump turned on Jeff Sessions, then the attorney general, blaming him for recusing himself from overseeing the investigation. “How could you let this happen, Jeff?” he demanded.The tension between Mr. Trump and Mr. McGahn, then the White House counsel, flared repeatedly. In June 2017, Mr. Trump called Mr. McGahn from Camp David twice and told him to have Mr. Mueller fired for alleged conflicts of interest. Mr. McGahn refused, saying he did not want to repeat the “Saturday Night Massacre,” when Richard M. Nixon ordered the firing of Watergate prosecutors.Mr. McGahn prepared to submit his resignation. He called Reince Priebus, then the White House chief of staff, and told him the president had asked him to “do crazy shit.” Ultimately, Mr. Trump backed off, but when The New York Times reported about the episode, he told Mr. McGahn to publicly deny it, which he would not do.Mr. Trump referred to Mr. McGahn as a “lying bastard” and said that if he did not deny the report, “then maybe I’ll have to get rid of him.” He did not fire Mr. McGahn, who left later that year.In his news conference on Thursday morning, Mr. Barr at times sounded like a defense lawyer, making no criticism of the president and instead offering an understanding interpretation of actions that Mr. Trump’s critics have said amounted to obstruction of justice.[Read Mr. Barr’s full prepared remarks.]In addressing obstruction, Mr. Barr said that the president had no corrupt intent and that his actions seen as impeding the inquiry were a result of being understandably “frustrated and angered by his sincere belief that the investigation was undermining his presidency, propelled by his political opponents and fueled by illegal leaks.”Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York and the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, said Thursday afternoon that Mr. Mueller’s report provided clear evidence that the president “engaged in obstruction of justice and other misconduct” that necessitated additional scrutiny by Congress.“The responsibility now falls to Congress to hold the president accountable for his actions,” Mr. Nadler said.The House Judiciary Committee is the traditional home of impeachment proceedings, and Mr. Nadler did not rule them out, though he said such talk was premature. He has already opened his own investigation into possible obstruction of justice, abuse of power and corruption.Speaking to reporters in New York, Mr. Nadler was sharply critical of Mr. Barr, saying, “We clearly can’t believe what Attorney General Barr tells us.”Senator Mark Warner, the top Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee, said Mr. Barr “fundamentally mischaracterized” Mr. Mueller’s findings, adding that “it is essential that Congress hear directly from the special counsel.”Mr. Nadler said he would quickly issue a subpoena to compel the delivery of the full report and underlying evidence to his committee. Mr. Barr said he gave Mr. Trump’s lawyers access to the report early, which allowed them a chance to prepare their public defense.“Earlier this week, the president’s personal counsel requested and were given the opportunity to read a final version of the redacted report before it was publicly released,” Mr. Barr said. “The president’s personal lawyers were not permitted to make, and did not request, any redactions.” Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, Rudolph W. Giuliani, said he and three lawyers on the president’s legal team started reading the report on Tuesday night in a secure room at the Justice Department. “We couldn’t take it out. We couldn’t photograph it,” Mr. Giuliani said in an interview with Fox News on Thursday. He said he and the other lawyers each read the entire report and shared their thoughts with each other. [Here’s what you need to know about the redactions and what they mean.]Mr. Barr said he shared the report with Mr. Trump’s personal lawyers in accordance with the “practice followed under the Ethics in Government Act,” permitting those named in a report to read it before publication. However, that has not always been the practice. In 1998, the independent counsel Ken Starr declined to let President Bill Clinton or his lawyers read his report on the Monica Lewinsky case before he sent it to Congress.Mr. Barr said that the White House made no claims of executive privilege over any information in the report.At the news conference, Mr. Barr made sure to include Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general, who first appointed Mr. Mueller. He also sent a letter to lawmakers saying that he would allow select congressional leaders to see a full version of the report — without redactions except for grand-jury information.Federal prosecutors are pursuing 14 other investigations that were referred by the special counsel, according to the report. Of the 14, only two were disclosed in the redacted report: potential wire fraud and federal employment law violations involving Michael D. Cohen, Mr. Trump’s former personal lawyer, and charges against Gregory B. Craig, the former White House counsel under President Barack Obama, who was accused of lying to investigators and concealing work for a pro-Russian government in Ukraine.The other 12 referrals were redacted because of concerns that if details were released publicly, they could harm continuing investigations.The special counsel also transferred 11 cases to other federal prosecutors to be wrapped up, mostly involving defendants who are awaiting trial or sentencing. Mr. Barr provided an important qualifier to the determination that Mr. Trump and the Trump campaign did not engage in illegal collusion — not with the Russian government that stole the Democratic emails, but with WikiLeaks, which published them.“The special counsel also investigated whether any member or affiliate of the Trump campaign encouraged or otherwise played a role in these dissemination efforts,” he said. “Under applicable law, publication of these types of materials would not be criminal unless the publisher also participated in the underlying hacking conspiracy. Here too, the special counsel’s report did not find that any person associated with the Trump campaign illegally participated in the dissemination of the materials.”In other words, since WikiLeaks did not participate in Russia’s underlying hacking of the emails, its actions were no crime. Thus, any Trump campaign collusion with WikiLeaks could not be an illegal conspiracy.More than two years of criminal indictments and steady revelations about Trump campaign contacts with Russians reveal the scope of the special counsel investigation.Mr. Trump responded to the report at an event at the White House for wounded troops, saying that it had vindicated him. “They’re having a good day,” he said of the troops. “I’m having a good day too. It’s called ‘no collusion, no obstruction.’ There never was, by the way, and there never will be.”“This should never happen to another president again, this hoax,” he added.Even before the report was released, Mr. Trump was claiming victory and lashing out at investigators and his critics. He tweeted a photo resembling a “Game of Thrones” poster that depicted him staring into a cloud, saying “No Collusion. No Obstruction. For the haters and radical left Democrats: Game Over.”The tweet was the latest of a barrage that the president posted starting early Thursday morning, long before the report was released. He did not speak to reporters in the afternoon as he left the White House for Mar-a-Lago, his club in Florida.Vice President Mike Pence, perhaps the president’s most loyal defender, said Mr. Mueller’s report “confirms what the president and I have said since Day 1: There was no collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia and there was no obstruction of justice.”Mr. Pence also said the special counsel investigation had the “full cooperation” of the White House. But despite the special counsel’s requests, Mr. Trump’s lawyers would not let the president sit for an interview out of concern that the president would make a false statement and expose himself to criminal charges. Instead, Mr. Trump provided written answers to questions.While attention focused on what was in Mr. Mueller’s report, many in Washington were also looking at what was left out.Mr. Barr made what he called “limited” redactions to the report, taking out information he deemed sensitive. More than a dozen pages were fully redacted, or nearly so. Other pages had sections of text blacked out, including full paragraphs.Much of the undisclosed material was in the first section of the report on Russia’s interference in the 2016 election and its interactions with the Trump campaign. Far less was scrubbed from the second part of the report, on whether Mr. Trump obstructed justice.Mr. Barr blacked out sentences or sections that fit into four categories: grand-jury testimony or evidence; classified intelligence; information that would compromise continuing investigations; and details that might harm the reputations or intrude on the privacy of “peripheral third parties.” The attorney general used different colors through the report to identify which sections were deleted for which reasons.The phrase “harm to ongoing matter” came up alongside enough deleted material that it quickly become its own meme, inspiring the names of upcoming bar trivia teams and imaginary punk rock bands.Katie Benner, Nicholas Fandos, Michael S. Schmidt, Eileen Sullivan, Michael Tackett and Noah Weiland contributed reporting.Peter Baker is the chief White House correspondent and has covered the last four presidents for The Times and The Washington Post. He also is the author of five books, most recently “Impeachment: An American History.”  @peterbakernyt • Facebook 

Supported byThe missing piece of the report is a counterintelligence investigation that should set off alarm bells about our democracy and security. By Joshua A. Geltzer and Ryan GoodmanMr. Geltzer is the executive director of the Institute for Constitutional Advocacy and Protection at Georgetown Law. Mr. Goodman is editor in chief of the blog Just Security.The Mueller report isn’t actually close to a full account of the investigation by the special counsel, Robert Mueller. That’s not just because of the redactions. When he was hired, Mr. Mueller inherited supervision of an F.B.I. counterintelligence investigation. That is the missing piece of the Mueller report.President Trump may claim “exoneration” on a narrowly defined criminal coordination charge. But a counterintelligence investigation can yield something even more important: an intelligence assessment of how likely it is that someone — in this case, the president — is acting, wittingly or unwittingly, under the influence of or in collaboration with a foreign power. Was Donald Trump a knowing or unknowing Russian asset, used in some capacity to undermine our democracy and national security?The public Mueller report alone provides enough evidence to worry that America’s own national security interests may not be guiding American foreign policy.The counterintelligence investigation is not necessarily complete, but from the glimpses we see in the Mueller report, it should set off very serious national security alarm bells.An intelligence assessment makes two determinations: a conclusion about the type of influence a foreign power may have over an individual and the degree of confidence in that conclusion. For example, when Mr. Trump boasted to the Russian foreign minister and ambassador in the Oval Office that he had fired the F.B.I. director, it raised only the possibility — a “circumstantial inference,” as it’s called in counterintelligence — that the president was wittingly working on behalf of the Russians. This apparent desire to please these officials indicates a high level of Russian influence and, in the context of other actions that pleased Mr. Putin, like his sudden decision to withdraw American troops from Syria — could support a modest to high level of confidence in that conclusion.But reaching very high confidence that Mr. Trump is wittingly doing Moscow’s bidding would require something we don't have and would not expect to have, like an email from Vladimir Putin ordering Mr. Trump to fire the F.B.I. director James Comey.Similarly, there is no "smoking gun" order in the incidents below. They indicate a strong influence by the Russians, but only low to moderate confidence that he acted at Russia’s behest. There’s simply no clear sign that Mr. Trump was following directions of acting under pressure from the Kremlin. The former Trump adviser Roger Stone directly communicates with the Russia-linked actor Guccifer 2.0 and coordinates with WikiLeaks to get Mr. Trump elected — and he is likely aware that one is a Russian front organization and the other is working with the Russians.A Trump campaign national security adviser is informed by a Russian intelligence operative that the Kremlin has stolen Hillary Clinton-related emails and could assist the Trump campaign through “anonymous release” of derogatory information; the campaign then works on setting up backdoor meetings with senior Russian government officials (though the meetings do not materialize).Members of the Trump transition team conduct secretive, back channel meetings with Putin operatives.Mr. Trump and Mr. Putin speak alone in Helsinki, then Mr. Trump accepts Mr. Putin’s claim that he didn’t meddle in the 2016 election and repudiates the intelligence community’s assessments to the contrary.Those incidents raise the possibility that Mr. Trump has wittingly sought to advance Russian interests, but the evidence is merely circumstantial and consequently suggests low to moderate confidence in that assessment. In many but not all respects, witting assets can be more dangerous because they have deliberately entered into some sort of understanding or agreement to work on behalf of the foreign power’s interests. But unwitting assets pose their own dangers. They have significant vulnerabilities that can be exploited with minimal actual coordination. In other words, they look and act more like puppets.In the following examples, Mr. Trump appears a potentially unwitting but responsive asset for Moscow, a finding in which there seems greater confidence:Mr. Trump’s national security adviser Michael Flynn reassures Russia that United States sanctions for election interference will be reversed, then lies about his conversation to the F.B.I. Mr. Trump publicly applauds Mr. Putin’s lack of retaliation for the sanctions.Mr. Trump pursues a potentially lucrative Trump Tower Moscow project through the end of the campaign and at least implicitly encourages his lawyer to lie to Congress about the timing of the deal.The stark reality is that one might have a moderate to high confidence that decisions are being made by an American president who, in the process of getting elected and after assuming office, has acted with the interests of an often-hostile foreign power influencing him.And that conclusion is deeply worrisome as a national security matter.A failure by political leaders to condemn the activities of a Trump campaign that openly welcomed Russian hacking and privately encouraged timely releases of damaging information about the campaign’s opponent would put our nation at further risk.As president, Mr. Trump has taken a series of steps at home and abroad that advance Russian policy interests. At home, he has weakened American democracy, all but paralyzed our ability to act through legislation and vilified key institutions — particularly law enforcement and the intelligence community. Abroad, Mr. Trump has weakened NATO, given Russia an increasingly free hand in Syria, minimized sanctions against Russian actors, questioned America’s commitment to protecting Eastern Europe from Russian aggression and defended Mr. Putin on the world stage.It’s hard to look toward the 2020 election with anything but concern — we have not come far enough to protect the democratic process from the threat of foreign election interference, and one reason may well be that the man in the Oval Office has been compromised and continues to be influenced, wittingly or otherwise, by a Kremlin eager to see the United States remain vulnerable.Joshua A. Geltzer, the executive director of the Institute for Constitutional Advocacy and Protection at Georgetown Law, was the senior director for counterterrorism at the National Security Council from 2015 to 2017. Ryan Goodman is a professor of law at New York University and editor in chief of the blog Just Security.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported byGood Friday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)Uber published the prospectus yesterday for its long-awaited I.P.O., revealing the full scale of its ride-hailing empire — and potential warning signs for what is expected to be the biggest market debut in years.The main revelations:• $1.8 billion in losses last year, excluding gains from selling parts of its businesses in Southeast Asia and Russia.• $11.3 billion in overall revenue.• 91 million monthly users, including services like food delivery and shared scooter and bike rentals.• Its biggest shareholders include SoftBank of Japan and its co-founder and former C.E.O., Travis Kalanick.Growth is slowing. In 2018, revenue rose 42 percent from a year earlier. It had doubled the year before. And revenue from ride-hailing, its biggest business,  was roughly flat for the last six months of 2018. Growth in monthly users also appears to be slowing.That could be a concern for investors who had hoped Uber would maintain a meteoric growth rate. A potential $100 billion valuation may be lower than expectations, but Lex points out that it’s still a rich number.More: How Uber stacks up against Lyft. What Uber’s metrics like “core platform contribution margin” actually mean. And Uber executives stand to make huge bonuses from a big I.P.O. — its drivers, not so much.Chevron said this morning that it planned to acquire Anadarko, the oil and gas producer, in what would be one of the biggest deals in the industry in years.• Under the terms of the deal, Chevron would pay $65 a share in stock and cash. That is 39 percent above where Anadarko’s stock closed yesterday.• Including Anadarko’s debt, the transaction is valued at $50 billion.• Anadarko would give Chevron a huge presence in the Permian Basin in West Texas, one of the most valuable oil-producing areas in the U.S. It would also strengthen Chevron’s liquid natural gas reserves.If completed, the deal would be Chevron’s biggest since its $36 billion takeover of Texaco, which closed in 2001.The deal comes as oil prices have risen over the past six weeks after a reduction in supply by OPEC members. Futures for West Texas Intermediate crude reached $64.19 per barrel this morning, up 61 cents from their last closing price, according to Reuters.In Amazon’s annual letter to its shareholders, Jeff Bezos shared insights about the financial performance of his e-commerce behemoth.“Third-party sellers are kicking our first-party butt. Badly,” Mr. Bezos wrote. Third-party sales on Amazon increased to $160 billion in 2018 from $100 million in 1999 — a compound annual growth rate of 52 percent. Amazon’s first-party sales rose to $117 billion from $1.6 billion in the same period, a growth rate of 25 percent.Growth in Amazon’s total merchandise sales is slowing, according to calculations by Shira Ovide of Bloomberg Opinion. She writes that the company sold $300 billion worth of merchandise in 2018, up 19 percent from the previous year. But annual increases for that metric were 24 percent for 2017 and 27 percent for 2016.“It’s unfair to expect Amazon to grow like a start-up forever. But it’s not insignificant that this slowdown has come even as Amazon has attempted to flex more muscle in newer categories,” Ms. Ovide writes. “It doesn’t seem like a coincidence that this comes as its legacy retail competitors finally seem to have awakened and adapted to the e-commerce era.”More: Mr. Bezos also dared retail rivals to raise their minimum wages. A Walmart executive shot back by asking Amazon to pay taxes.Four Republican senators said that they would not back Mr. Cain should President Trump nominate him as a Fed governor. That’s probably enough opposition to stop him from joining the central bank.“If I had to vote today, I would vote no,” Senator Kevin Cramer of North Dakota said yesterday, joining Mitt Romney of Utah, Lisa Murkowski of Alaska and Cory Gardner of Colorado in opposing Mr. Cain. They appear to have concerns about his qualifications and partisanship.Because Republicans hold only 53 Senate seats, a confirmation would require support from Democrats. That seems unlikely, given Mr. Cain’s frequent attacks on opposition lawmakers.It’s unclear whether Mr. Trump’s other pick for the Fed, the economics commentator Stephen Moore, will fare better. Mr. Moore has been embarrassed by revelations of tax problems, but Jim Tankersley of the NYT reports that he may win wider support from Senate Republicans.Mr. Trump’s efforts to politicize the Fed continue to outrage commentators. The Economist is worried that “the Fed will become a political weapon, and that America will move closer to becoming a nation where the welfare of the ruling party trumps that of the country as a whole.”As part of trade negotiations with America, China has offered new concessions on access in the cloud-computing sector for U.S. tech companies, the WSJ reports.• China is “proposing to issue more licenses that businesses need to operate data centers and to lift the 50 percent equity cap that limits ownership for certain foreign cloud-service providers,” according to unidentified sources.• “Amazon, Microsoft, Apple and others have invested millions of dollars or more to provide cloud services in China, but are hampered by regulations. Better access would potentially allow them to enlarge their presence.”• “Questions still remain over the details of the latest Chinese proposal, the people said, such as how quickly the equity caps would be removed, and whether the removal would be confined to certain geographical areas, such as a free-trade zone.”Both Washington and Beijing are offering a final round of concessions, hoping they will lead to an agreement. President Trump said last week that he expected to reach a deal within the next four weeks.The owner of The National Enquirer may have found a potential buyer: Ron Burkle, the supermarket mogul, the NYT reports.Mr. Burkle is known for buying distressed companies, having made his fortune through buying and merging supermarket chains like Ralphs and Jurgensen’s. He’s also known for hobnobbing with celebrities like Leonardo DiCaprio and Madonna.He’s also a big donor to the Democratic Party, and was close to President Bill Clinton. That would make his owning The Enquirer, the tabloid favored by Mr. Trump, unusual. (He is also friends with Mr. Trump.)But leaks of the Enquirer talks may scuttle a deal. After the NYT reported on the discussions, a spokesman for Mr. Burkle’s private equity firm said that the investor wasn’t in talks to buy the publication. The NYT reports that Mr. Burkle’s team felt “used” by American Media Inc., the tabloid’s current owner.The WikiLeaks founder was arrested yesterday in London to face a charge in the U.S. of conspiring to hack into a Pentagon computer network in 2010, the NYT reports.• “The Ecuadorean government suspended the citizenship it had granted Mr. Assange and evicted him on Thursday, clearing the way for his arrest.”• “At a court hearing, a judge swiftly found him guilty of jumping bail, and he was detained partly in connection with an American extradition warrant.”• “Mr. Assange indicated that he would fight extradition, and legal experts said that process could take years. He is likely to argue that the case is politically motivated.”The events brought to a head issues about press freedom. Mr. Assange’s work with WikiLeaks — obtaining and publishing information that officials would prefer be kept secret — are hard to legally distinguish from journalism. Some fear that journalists could be treated in a similar way.Mr. Assange was indicted on a charge of hacking, not publishing secrets. But people who are worried about press freedom shouldn’t necessarily rest easy, Charlie Savage of the NYT writes.More: President Trump once claimed to “love WikiLeaks.” Yesterday, he said: “I know nothing about WikiLeaks. It’s not my thing.”The dust has settled on the agreement to delay Britain’s withdrawal from the E.U. for at least six months. But reactions to the situation have been mixed.Business are unhappy. For many larger companies, Brexit has already happened. But “businesses of all sizes are still pleading for Parliament to give them clarity before the economy slows,” Amie Tsang of the NYT writes.Economists are pleased. The I.M.F.’s managing director, Christine Lagarde, said that the new Brexit date meant that Britain would avoid — for now — the “terrible outcome” of a no-deal departure. The Bank of England governor, Mark Carney, said the delay would make a no-deal exit less disruptive.And Prime Minister Theresa May is pushing on. She has “renewed her effort to push through her Brexit deal with the aid of the opposition Labour Party, in a desperate bid to avoid holding European parliamentary elections in a month’s time,” according to the FT.Bob Iger said yesterday that he would retire as Walt Disney’s C.E.O. in 2021.Jamie Forese, the head of Citigroup’s investment bank and a potential successor to Mike Corbat as C.E.O., is stepping down.Google’s chief diversity officer, Danielle Brown, is leaving to become the human resources chief at Gusto.Maryanne Trump Barry, a federal appellate judge in Philadelphia and the sister of President Trump, has retired amid a civil misconduct investigation.Blackstone has appointed Kelly Ayotte, a former Republican senator for New Hampshire, to its board.Deals• J. Crew may spin off its popular Madewell brand to raise much-needed capital. (NYT)• Jay Alix, the corporate restructuring veteran, is leading a fight against what he says is McKinsey &amp; Company’s control of the U.S. bankruptcy system. (NYT)• A bidder for Disney’s sports networks has accused Charter Communications of trying to subvert the auction process. (WSJ)• Goldman Sachs is trying to revive its once-dominant trading division by offering clients technology and new services like cash management. (FT)Politics and policy• Senator Elizabeth Warren proposed a 7 percent tax on corporate profits above $100 million, which would raise an estimated $1 trillion over the next decade. (Bloomberg)• The Senate confirmed David Bernhardt, a former oil lobbyist, as the interior department secretary, despite Democratic lawmakers’ concerns. (NYT)• A third of economists think even a small increase in the federal minimum wage would lead to job losses, according to a survey. (WSJ)• A grand jury indicted Gregory Craig, a White House counsel in the Obama administration, over his work for Ukraine. (NYT)Boeing• Families planning to sue Boeing in the U.S. over fatal crashes in Indonesia and Ethiopia must first prove their lawsuits belong in America. (WSJ)• The C.E.O., Dennis Muilenberg, said that fixes planned for the 737 Max jets would make them “even safer.” (WSJ)• Before the Ethiopian Airlines crash, Boeing had said that the 737 Max 8 was “not suitable” for some airports. (Bloomberg)Tech• Disney introduced its streaming service, Disney Plus. Featuring original content from Marvel and all 30 seasons of “The Simpsons,” it will cost $7 a month, undercutting Netflix. (NYT)• SpaceX launched the Falcon Heavy — the most powerful rocket in operation — for the second time. It also successfully landed all three of its boosters for the first time. Related: What’s next for the space race. (NYT, WSJ)• Tesla reshuffled the vehicle lineup on its online ordering system, making it harder to buy its cheapest vehicle. Also: Tesla and Panasonic have tempered expansion plans for their huge battery factory. (Bloomberg)• What’s Big Tech’s relationship with the climate? It’s complicated. (Axios)Best of the rest• Economists said that they see the Fed holding rates steady at least through 2021, according to a survey. (WSJ)• The new World Bank president, David Malpass, says there is too much debt in the world. (CNBC)• A defense lawyer for Carlos Ghosn says that detention is worsening his kidney condition. (WSJ)• Sales reps for Purdue Pharma visited New York State doctors a half-million times between 2006 and 2017 to promote OxyContin, according to newly filed court documents. (NYT)• Michael Avenatti, already facing fraud and extortion charges, has also been accused of stealing from clients and of lying repeatedly about his income. (NYT)• “Game of Thrones” returns on Sunday. Here’s how it changed television. (FT)Thanks for reading! We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.

Supported byOur emerging post-privacy order isn’t quite totalitarian, but it’s getting there.By Ross DouthatOpinion ColumnistIn our age of digital connection and constantly online life, you might say that two political regimes are evolving, one Chinese and one Western, which offer two kinds of relationships between the privacy of ordinary citizens and the newfound power of central authorities to track, to supervise, to expose and to surveil.The first regime is one in which your every transaction can be fed into a system of ratings and rankings, in which what seem like merely personal mistakes can cost you your livelihood and reputation, even your ability to hail a car or book a reservation. It’s one in which notionally private companies cooperate with the government to track dissidents and radicals and censor speech; one in which your fellow citizens act as enforcers of the ideological consensus, making an example of you for comments you intended only for your friends; one in which even the wealth and power of your overlords can't buy privacy.The second regime is the one they’re building in the People’s Republic of China.This is a dark joke; it isn’t meant to minimize the horrors of China’s march into information-age totalitarianism. Beginning with its successful taming of the internet, Beijing has treated the darkest episodes of “Black Mirror” as a how-to guide for social control and subjugation — with “social credit” scores and official public shamings for people whose daily conduct disappoints, official Communist Party apps that you’d better use if you know what’s good for you, surveillance technologies and facial recognition software as boots on the back of nonapproved religions, and compulsory internet as part of the brutal, tech-enabled replay of the Cultural Revolution imposed in China’s Muslim west.What’s happening in the West with privacy and authority is happily different. Unlike China’s system, our emerging post-privacy order is not (for now) totalitarian; its impositions are more decentralized and haphazard, more circumscribed and civilized, less designed and more evolved, more random in the punishments inflicted and the rules enforced.This means that, for instance, there is no central party apparatus encouraging our corporations to create individual “trust scores” for every consumer (even if they’re still doing it), no official commissars organizing digital mobs (even if shaming for random wrongthink is now a commonplace), no political persecution involved in most cases where public figures have their secrets and selfies exposed on the internet. (Perhaps Jeff Bezos's claims of Saudi involvement will pan out, but so far he mostly seems to have been the victim of his own stupidity and his mistress's brother's greed.) And it means that the radicals surveilled by corporate-government cooperation are mostly white nationalists and jihadists, not human rights advocates and Christian pastors, as in China.But this list of real differences is still also a list of partial similarities, of ways in which the architecture of our system replicates certain features of the emergent Chinese panopticon, even if the life lived within our system is still blessedly freer than in theirs.Indeed our system cannot help recreating features of the Chinese order, because the way that we live on the internet leaves us naked before power in a radical new way. In the West that power is still decentralized, diffuse, divided and polarized, and therefore likely to be limited and checked. But to adapt Deng Xiaoping’s famous call for “socialism with Chinese characteristics," the Western order in the internet age might be usefully described as a “liberalism with some police-state characteristics.” Those characteristics are shaped and limited by our political heritage of rights and individualism. But there is still plainly an authoritarian edge, a gentle “pink police state” aspect, to the new world that online life creates.And what’s striking is how easily we have come to tolerate it. Yes, there are moments when particular organs of surveillance get pushback — the N.S.A. during the brief “libertarian moment” starring Rand Paul and Edward Snowden, the social media companies from liberals when it turned out that the Trump digital team no less than the Obama whiz kids could exploit their user data.[As technology advances, will it continue to blur the lines between public and private? Sign up for Charlie Warzel’s limited-run newsletter to explore what’s at stake and what you can do about it.]But apart from the high-minded and the paranoid, privacy per se is not a major issue in our politics. Most people want the convenience of the internet far more than they want the private spaces that older forms of communication protected. They shrug off the stalker-ish ways that corporations hurl their ads at you throughout your day. They put surveillance devices in their homes and pockets without a qualm. They accept hackings and online shamings the way a Californian shrugs off earthquakes. They assume that the extremists being surveilled and censored and sometimes arrested probably deserve it. And they welcome the possible advantages of panoptical living, hoping for less crime and less police misconduct, better public health, more exposure of corruption — plus, of course, the chance to see their favorite celebrities in the nude.So for those who object inherently to our new nakedness, regard the earthquakes as too high a price for Amazon’s low prices, or fear what an Augustus or a Robespierre might someday do with all this architecture, the best hope for a partial restoration of privacy has to involve more than just an anxiety about privacy alone. It requires a more general turn against the virtual, in which fears of digital nakedness are just one motivator among many — the political piece of a cause that’s also psychological, intellectual, aesthetic and religious.This is the hard truth suggested by our online experience so far: That a movement to restore privacy must be, at some level, a movement against the internet. Not a pure Luddism, but a movement for limits, for internet-free spaces, for zones of enforced pre-virtual reality (childhood and education above all), for social conventions that discourage career-destroying tweets and crotch shots by encouraging us to put away our iPhones.Absent such a movement we may not join China in dystopia. But the dystopian elements in our own order will be here to stay.Follow @privacyproject on Twitter and The New York Times Opinion Section on Facebook and Instagram.Ross Douthat has been an Opinion columnist for The Times since 2009. He is the author of several books, most recently, “To Change the Church: Pope Francis and the Future of Catholicism.”
You can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT You can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT 

Supported byThe special counsel’s report reveals a pattern of deceit and dysfunction. What comes next is up to Congress.By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.So much for “complete and total exoneration.”To the contrary, it turns out that Robert Mueller and his team of prosecutors and investigators found “substantial evidence” that President Trump broke federal law on numerous occasions by attempting to shut down or interfere with the nearly-two-year Russia investigation. In addition to pointing to possible criminality, the report revealed a White House riddled with dysfunction and distrust, one in which Mr. Trump and his aides lie with contempt for one another and the public. Some of the president’s efforts to interfere with the investigation failed, the report concluded, only because “the persons who surrounded the president declined to carry out orders or accede to his requests.” Put another way, Mr. Trump may survive, thanks to advisers who chose to refuse or simply ignore his demands to do what the former White House counsel Donald McGahn at one point referred to as “crazy shit.” Mr. Trump — referred to repeatedly by aides as “the boss” — is shown as so attentive to covering his tracks that at one point he scolds Mr. McGahn for taking notes during a meeting. “I never had a lawyer who took notes,” Mr. Trump is quoted as saying. Mr. McGahn responded that he was a “real lawyer.”With the public release of a redacted version of the special counsel’s report on Thursday, Americans also at last got a clear answer for a central question raised by the terse — and now clearly misleading — summary offered four weeks ago by Attorney General William Barr: Why did Mr. Mueller decide not to make a finding about whether President Trump obstructed justice?“We determined not to apply an approach that could potentially result in a judgment that the president committed crimes,” the report explains, because “fairness concerns counseled against potentially reaching that judgment when no charges can be brought.”In other words, Mr. Mueller felt his hands were tied. Longstanding Justice Department policy prohibits the indictment of a sitting president, and it isn’t fair to make accusations without giving the president a legal forum in which to respond.A bit further on, the 448-page report says, “If we had confidence after a thorough investigation of the facts that the president clearly did not commit obstruction of justice, we would so state.” So what now? Although Mr. Mueller was unable to bring criminal charges against the president himself, his report lays a foundation for investigation by Congress, which has the authority and the responsibility to check the executive branch and hold the president accountable. “The conclusion that Congress may apply the obstruction laws to the president's corrupt exercise of the powers of office accords with our constitutional system of checks and balances and the principle that no person is above the law,” the report states. It is up to Congress to decide whether the behavior described in this report meets an acceptable standard for the country’s chief executive.In order to adequately conduct such an investigation, Congress must have access to a fully uncensored version of the report and all its underlying materials. Congressional leaders are right to subpoena the full report, as the House Judiciary Committee chairman, Jerrold Nadler, said he would do on Thursday.The public also has a right to hear Mr. Mueller testify before Congress at the earliest opportunity. Descriptions in the public version of the report of the ways in which the president used, and abused, his powers challenge the dignity of the presidency and the free and fair function of the justice system. The special counsel investigated 11 incidents in which the president may have obstructed justice, the same offense facing Richard Nixon during Watergate and Bill Clinton during his impeachment.The report notes that the president engaged in “public attacks on the investigation, nonpublic efforts to control it, and efforts in both public and private to encourage witnesses not to cooperate with the investigation.” That the president’s norm-shattering behavior has become so flagrant and familiar doesn’t make it right.Little wonder that Mr. Trump, when notified that a special counsel had been appointed to scrutinize his behavior, reportedly slumped in his chair and said: “Oh my God. This is terrible. This is the end of my presidency. I’m fucked.” In addition to indicting, convicting or securing guilty pleas from 34 people, the special counsel’s office made 14 referrals for further investigation of potential criminal activity outside the purview of the investigation’s mandate. Twelve of those referrals remain secret.The report is more definitive when it comes to the extensive interference by Russian spies and hackers in the 2016 election, a campaign of disruption it calls “sweeping and systematic.”Mr. Mueller’s investigation found that “the Russian government perceived it would benefit from a Trump presidency and worked to secure that outcome, and that the campaign expected it would benefit electorally from information stolen and released through Russian efforts.” Mr. Mueller was not able in the end to establish definitive coordination between the Trump campaign and the Russians. At the same time, large sections of the report, apparently regarding dealings between WikiLeaks and the Trump campaign, have been blacked out. Mr. Barr said Thursday that any such coordination between the website and the campaign wouldn’t be criminal. Congress and the American people deserve to know what happened nonetheless. If the report — and the entire saga around the Russia investigation — has one through-line, it is the dishonesty at the heart of the Trump administration. The president told Mr. McGahn to lie to reporters about Mr. Trump’s attempt to fire the special prosecutor. The press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, made up from whole cloth the notion that “rank-and-file F.B.I. agents had lost confidence” in the ousted director, James Comey. Half a dozen people connected with the Mueller investigation have been formally charged with — or pleaded guilty to — lying to investigators. Then on Thursday, just before the report was made public, the attorney general tarnished himself and undermined the integrity of his office by dissembling about what the report said.By contrast, the special prosecutor’s report illustrates again and again that, despite Mr. Trump’s constant cries of “fake news,” the responsible news media’s reporting on the investigation was overwhelmingly accurate.Mr. Mueller may have thought he couldn’t indict a president in the legal sense of the term, but he has delivered a devastating description of Mr. Trump’s attempts to abuse his powers and corrupt his aides. This report, even in its censored format, is an important step toward putting the truth of this presidency in the public record. But there’s still a long way to go before it can be said that justice has been done.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported byBy Remy Tumin and Marcus Payadue(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. The long, strange self-imposed exile of Julian Assange has come to an end.The WikiLeaks founder is in custody in London after Ecuador dropped his asylum protections. After seven years in the embassy’s tiny offices, relations with his hosts had frayed badly, including disputes over his behavior, cat and personal hygiene. Mr. Assange left the embassy in a police van, above.He faces an extradition warrant filed by the U.S., which unsealed an indictment of one count of conspiracy to hack a computer, related to his role in the 2010 release of classified U.S. documents. The charge is narrow, to the relief of press freedom advocates._____2. Sudan’s leader, Omar Hassan al-Bashir, was forced out in a coup driven by months of mass protests over decades of authoritarian rule.In the West, he was seen as a heartless warmonger and coddler of terrorists. Mr. al-Bashir, 75, is wanted by the International Criminal Court on charges including genocide in the deaths of hundreds of thousands of people in the Darfur region.Protesters’ jubilation, above in Khartoum, was tempered by worries about the military’s assumption of control for what it called a two-year transition period. Sudan’s defense secretary said the government had been dissolved and the Constitution suspended._____3. Brexit forever. Or at least for six more months.On the eve of Britain’s (re-)scheduled departure from the European Union, European leaders extended the deadline to the end of October. Above, anti-Brexit protesters outside Parliament on Thursday.The path ahead still resembles a minefield, our London bureau reports. The choices facing the British Parliament haven’t changed. And the thing exhausted British lawmakers want most is a vacation.Businesses, especially small ones, pleaded with politicians to come to an agreement._____4. The National Enquirer may have a new owner.Ron Burkle, a friend of Bill Clinton and major Democratic donor, is in talks to buy the tabloid from American Media Inc. Friendly toward President Trump, The Enquirer came under scrutiny for its role in aiding Mr. Trump’s 2016 campaign.Mr. Burkle, who specializes in buying distressed companies, made his initial fortune buying and selling supermarkets in California._____5. “He saw hope. He saw a community that even through its flaws taught him to always keep going.”President Barack Obama was one of scores of celebrities and fans who paid tribute to Nipsey Hussle at a memorial service on Thursday. Mr. Obama sent a letter that was read aloud at Staples Center, an arena that holds 21,000 people.Hip-hop luminaries including Snoop Dogg, YG and others spoke at the memorial, and closed with a musical tribute from Stevie Wonder. A procession of the coffin through south Los Angeles is to follow.One of our reporters went to high school with Nipsey, and wrote about what the rapper meant to the Los Angeles community. “We saw ourselves in Nipsey, because, in many ways, he was part of us,” he writes._____6. A deputy sheriff’s son was charged in connection with fires at three predominantly black churches in Louisiana.In a news conference announcing the arrest of Holden Matthews, 21, authorities emphasized that they had not concluded their investigation into what prompted the attacks, but said that Mr. Matthews played music in a genre sometimes associated with white supremacists — “black metal,” meaning darker than thrash or death metal.The fires occurred over a 10-day period starting on March 26 in St. Landry Parish, north of Lafayette, destroying churches, including Greater Union Baptist Church in Opelousas, above, that had been around for more than a century and had been the spiritual homes of generations of black families._____7. Yesterday we brought you news from a black hole 55 million light-years away. Today’s space news is a little closer to home.Researchers with what’s known as the NASA Twins Study released their first detailed findings of the effects of space travel on the human body. They used biological data the astronaut Scott Kelly, right, gathered while in space for nearly a year, and the same data his twin Mark, left, collected in the same period on Earth. Above, the brothers in 2015 before Mr. Kelly left for space.The results were disturbing. Mr. Kelly returned with extra genetic mutations and blunted scores on cognition tests. Here are some takeaways.And if your head is still spinning over the image of the black hole, our reporter broke it down on a Reddit AMA today._____8. Your digital footprint. Your physical footprint. Even your genetic makeup.As companies and governments gain new powers to follow people across the internet and around the world, The Times is embarking on a monthslong project to explore the technology and where it’s taking us. Take our survey.“It seems like a good moment to pause and consider the choices we’ve already made, and the ones that lie ahead,” the editor of our editorial pages explains in an introduction.Our publisher, A.G. Sulzberger, says The Times is examining its own data collection, too._____9. What will America look like in 2024?It’s a question we asked of 15 playwrights as inspiration to develop original works for T Magazine’s culture issue, including Paul Rudnick, Terrence McNally, Naomi Iizuka and Lynn Nottage. Alongside six of the plays you’ll find video versions with actors including Nathan Lane, Kerry Washington and John Lithgow.“If you want to change minds, write a great editorial for the Op-Ed page,” Mr. McNally told our reporter. “But if you want to get people to feel differently, reach them through the theater.”_____10. Finally, a very good dog. At running.Since Monday, a dog named Cactus has been running alongside humans in the Marathon des Sables, a 140.7-mile race across the Sahara. He completed the full 23 miles of Tuesday’s stage as well as Wednesday’s 47.4 miles.In the early mornings, Cactus makes his rounds at the runners’ tents before trotting to the front of the starting line to take off with the (human) pack. He seems to take affection wherever it is offered.“I know he’s having the greatest time,” wrote an inn owner from Cactus’s village.Have a very good night._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.

Supported bySure, electronic eyes are spying. But look at everything this pocket computer can do!By Samantha IrbyMs. Irby is a comedy writer.My phone is my favorite possession. I wish I could pretend it has been some torrid courtship, that after much cat-and-mousing the two of us succumbed to our mutual attraction and decided to settle down and make an honest go of it, but I can’t: I am in breathless pursuit, hustling to keep her updated and paid for, wooing her with expensive protective cases and as many off-brand charging cords as there are outlets in my home. She acknowledges this attention with occasional notifications, blinking on the screen, reminders to update, so many needs. That makes me want her even more.I know that having her carelessly bouncing around the bottom of my bag all day and on the nightstand inches from my sleeping face, readily available for when I need to look up “recipes for morons” or “the best way to wash a cat,” is putting my precious information at risk. My phone is always listening, and through a series of bloops and bleeps I do not understand, the data I have spewed into the universe gets sold and fed back to me in a targeted Instagram ad for whatever it is I now urgently need.I don’t know how thrilled I am to be giving up my secrets, but it’s foolish to think I have any control over them, and ultimately I don’t care. I love convenience and entertainment too much to worry about how much information I cannot control is being leaked to marketers, retailers, the government and whatever Chinese intelligence agency controls the barrage of ads for $13 dresses that saturate my feed.Maybe it’s because I got in the smartphone game late and have a real memory of how inconvenient life used to be.I’m staring down the barrel of my 40th year, and the first computer I bought for myself was six or seven years ago. I didn’t get my first iPhone until they’d been around for years, partly because I was like: “Who needs that? I prefer to live in the real world!” but mostly because the idea of walking around with a $500 computer in my pocket seemed dangerous. And the idea that I could somehow scrape together the money to purchase said pocket computer while also maintaining a roof over my head (read: partying all the time and paying for cable) was hilarious and unrealistic. I was the last dinosaur at the club sending multi-tap texts on a Nokia E51 with no camera.When I finally upgraded, I didn’t get what all the fuss was about. O.K., sure, this glowing rectangle in my bag can tell me the weather anywhere in the world at this exact moment, but who cares? Wait, it can also figure out exactly what wrong street I’m turning down and steer me back in the right direction? And it counted how many steps I took? While also storing all the passwords I can never remember? Please excuse me while I build this shrine to the new most important thing in my life.That is how it gets you. I was a skeptic and then I was a convert almost immediately. I have long understood that I am a tiny, powerless cog in the wheel of modern America, plus I’m not a hacker, so what do I even know about keeping things hidden? Is it even possible for me, a regular person who cannot figure out how to program the television remote, to circumvent the eyes of all of the faceless technology corporations analyzing my information? What am I going to do, cheat Amazon? Outsmart Google? No, I’m going to do what everyone else does: enter my credit card information when prompted and get that thing I need two days from when I decided I needed it.A few months ago I went to dinner with the kind of people whose idea of fun is to correct your pronunciation of “niçoise,” and they boldly suggested that we all put our phones face down in the center of the table for the entirety of the meal and what felt like a needlessly lingering discussion afterward.Now, I didn’t die. But I also didn’t know what time it was. Or if anyone had texted me. And I’m not really a “post a picture of my fancy meal” kind of person, but I could tell that other people wanted to. The air was heavy with missed opportunity. And you know what we talked about while cringing internally as the carafe of still water we actually had to pay for came perilously close to splashing on our helpless devices every time it was passed? TV shows, which you can watch on a phone. Books, which, if your eyes haven’t already burned through the back of your skull from being on your phone all the time, you can read on your phone. Murder podcasts, which are specifically made to be listened to on a phone.[As technology advances, will it continue to blur the lines between public and private? Sign up for Charlie Warzel’s limited-run newsletter to explore what’s at stake and what you can do about it.]Yes, your phone is potentially hazardous to whatever semblance of security you might have. Yes, there are many medical professionals who would attest to the deleterious effect modern technology has on the brains and interpersonal skills of adults. But hear me out: Maybe it’s worth it?My phone knows so much about me. It knows where I am, how many steps I took to get there, the whisper of a thought I don’t remember even fully forming in my brain that somehow made its way to a search engine. It also knows I am addicted, which is why it doesn’t ever really have to worry about whether I’m creeped out by the digital eyes I can feel looking over my shoulder.Not long ago, Apple put a screen-time feature on the iPhone that’s supposed to, I don’t know, shame me into putting down the drug it won’t stop selling me. I use the statistics it collects as a challenge to spend even more time messing around on my phone. Only one hour and 37 minutes of social networking yesterday, you say? Let me put this informative book I was reading down and try to top that. But my phone already knows that’s what I’d want to do.Samantha Irby (@wordscience) is the author of the essay collections “Meaty” and “We Are Never Meeting in Real Life.”Follow @privacyproject on Twitter and The New York Times Opinion Section on Facebook and Instagram.

Supported byThe screenless internet could be amazing — or terrible. By Farhad ManjooOpinion ColumnistA few months ago, I stumbled onto a new way of writing. I don’t mean an unusual literary or textual style; I mean a new physical method for the painstaking task of chiseling the formless geologic schists inside my brain into words and sentences crisp and coherent enough to please at least a few of my fellow human beings.Here’s what I do: Instead of writing, I speak. When a notable thought strikes me — I could be pacing around my home office, washing dishes, driving or, most often recently, taking long, aimless strolls on desolate suburban Silicon Valley sidewalks — I open RecUp, a cloud-connected voice-recording app on my phone. Because I’m pretty much always wearing wireless headphones with a mic — yes, I’m one of those AirPod people — the app records my voice in high fidelity as I walk, while my phone is snug in my pocket or otherwise out of sight.And so, on foot, wandering about town, I write. I began making voice memos to remember column ideas and short turns of phrases. But as I became comfortable with the practice, I started to compose full sentences, paragraphs and even whole outlines of my columns just by speaking.Then comes the magical part. Every few days, I load the recordings into Descript, an app that bills itself as a “word processor for audio.” Some of my voice memos are more than an hour long, but Descript quickly (and cheaply) transcribes the text, truncates the silences and renders my speech editable and searchable. Through software, my meandering memos are turned into a skeleton of writing. The text Descript spits out is not by any means ready for publication, but it functions like a pencil sketch: a rough first draft that I then hammer into life the old-fashioned way, on a screen, with a keyboard, lots of tears and not a little blood.Writing by speaking has quietly revolutionized how I work. It has made my writing more conversational and less precious. More amazingly, it has expanded my canvas: I can now write the way street photographers shoot — out in the world, whenever the muse strikes me (or more likely, when I’m loafing around, procrastinating on some other piece of writing). Most of my recent columns, including large portions of this one, were written this way: first by mouth, not fingers.There is something more interesting here than a newspaper columnist’s life hack. I began writing-by-speaking as part of a deeper exploration into living inside what I call the “screenless internet” — which may well become the internet of tomorrow, for better and worse.Late last decade, smartphones liberated computers from our desks, which was thrilling until we realized they were also shackling us into a distracted, addictive existence ruled entirely by multitouch glass. Now, as we reach the heights of Peak Screen, it is becoming possible to see the outlines of a less visually arresting path ahead.New advances — like smarter and more ubiquitous voice assistants; better text-to-speech synthesis; easy-to-use audio and video production apps like Descript and Anchor; and gadgets that burrow the internet into your ears, like Apple’s AirPods and Amazon’s reported forthcoming AirPod clones — point to a profound shift in computing. Soon it might be possible to conduct a large slice of digital life, including work, without being glued to a screen. What will that be like? In what ways will it be better than what we have today — and in what ways worse?To begin to understand these questions, I’ve been trying to live without screens. Two or three mornings a week, I’ll put on my headphones and some comfortable walking boots (Docs and Timbs are my go-to), then I’ll head out to the beaten sidewalk. My aim is to see how much I can get done with my mouth and my ears, to understand how interacting with computers mostly by speaking and listening might change computing, and how it might change us.Now, I’ll grant that my “work” is unnatural and a little bizarre. Still, I was surprised at how much of it can be done without a screen. As a columnist, I spend large chunks of the day ingesting and analyzing information. I’ll read the news, read magazines and books, and try to find sources and experts to talk about whatever I find interesting.At my office, I’d do all of this on a screen. But I can now find just as much news and expertise on the screenless internet. Indeed, in many ways, screenless content is better. Podcasts and audiobooks offer the sort of intimate peek at expertise that I remember from the amateur blogosphere circa 2003: a nuanced, serious, ongoing conversation about the news, one that feels more intimate, less clickbaity and less reflexively partisan than today’s visual web. And it’s efficient, too. Listening on double-speed, I can power through news and audiobooks in no time, and without distraction. When information is coming through my ears, I feel less anxiety to constantly look for something new, the way we are encouraged to do on the pull-down-for-more touch-screen internet of today.There are readers who’ll say this experiment sounds silly, that the pull of screens is so strong it is folly to imagine a world without them. Others might suggest that the screenless internet, if it comes, will bring its own peculiar horrors: Picture dead-eyed AirPodders mumbling incantations to robotic assistants as they amble zombielike through Times Square (directed by Jordan Peele).I’m wary of such dangers (and others yet to be imagined). Yet the more I write by speaking, the more hopelessly I fall for a screenless future. The bottom line, for me, is how magically even my jury-rigged method collapses the distance between my thoughts and the computer.As this distance collapses further — as computers begin to understand our speech and then our thoughts with high fidelity — the internet will cease to be stuck in glass. It will come alive, all around us, and that could be amazing. (Or, you know, the worst).The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Farhad Manjoo became an opinion columnist for The Times in 2018. Before that, he wrote the State of the Art column. He is the author of “True Enough: Learning to Live in a Post-Fact Society.”  @fmanjoo • Facebook 



      By LIAM STACK

APRIL 3, 2019

Using 150 interviews on three continents, The Times describes the Murdoch family’s role in destabilizing democracy in North America, Europe and Australia.



        Using 150 interviews on three continents, The Times describes the Murdoch family’s role in destabilizing democracy in North America, Europe and Australia.
          
      By LIAM STACK APRIL 3, 2019Rupert Murdoch, the founder of a global media empire that includes Fox News, has said he “never asked a prime minister for anything.”But that empire has given him influence over world affairs in a way few private citizens ever have, granting the Murdoch family enormous sway over not just the United States, but English-speaking countries around the world.A six-month investigation by The New York Times covering three continents and including more than 150 interviews has described how Mr. Murdoch and his feuding sons turned their media outlets into right-wing political influence machines that have destabilized democracy in North America, Europe and Australia.Here are some key takeaways from The Times’s investigation into the Murdoch family and its role in the illiberal, right-wing political wave sweeping the globe.Fox News has long exerted a gravitational pull on the Republican Party in the United States, where it most recently amplified the nativist revolt that has fueled the rise of the far right and the election of President Trump.Mr. Murdoch’s newspaper The Sun spent years demonizing the European Union to its readers in Britain, where it helped lead the Brexit campaign that persuaded a slim majority of voters in a 2016 referendum to endorse pulling out of the bloc. Political havoc has reigned in Britain ever since.[Read the complete investigation into the Murdoch family.]And in Australia, where his hold over the media is most extensive, Mr. Murdoch’s outlets pushed for the repeal of the country’s carbon tax and helped topple a series of prime ministers whose agenda he disliked, including Malcolm Turnbull last year.At the center of this upheaval sits the Murdoch family, a clan whose dysfunction has both shaped and mirrored the global tumult of recent years.The Times explored those family dynamics and their impact on the Murdoch empire, which is on the cusp of succession as its 88-year-old patriarch prepares to hand power to the son whose politics most resemble his own: Lachlan Murdoch.A key step in that succession has paradoxically been the partial dismemberment of the empire, which significantly shrunk last month when Mr. Murdoch sold one of his companies, the film studio 21st Century Fox, to the Walt Disney Company for $71.3 billion.The deal turned Mr. Murdoch’s children into billionaires and left Lachlan in control of a powerful political weapon: a streamlined company, the Fox Corporation, whose most potent asset is Fox News.Succession has been a source of tension in the Murdoch family for years, particularly between Mr. Murdoch’s sons Lachlan and James.His two sons are very different people. James wanted the company to become more digitally focused and more politically moderate, while Lachlan wanted to lean into the reactionary politics of the moment.[Read the complete investigation into the Murdoch family.]The brothers have spent their lives competing to succeed their father, and both men felt as if they had earned the top job. When Mr. Murdoch decided to promote Lachlan over James, it was Lachlan who delivered the news to James over lunch, souring the already poor relationship between the men.James briefly quit the company in protest. But he was lured back by a carefully crafted compromise that put Lachlan in charge but allowed James to save face by maintaining the public illusion that he was the heir.But all of these succession plans — as well as the lucrative Disney deal — were thrown into chaos last year when Mr. Murdoch broke his spine and collapsed on a yacht.He was rushed to a hospital, and appeared to be so close to death that his wife, the model Jerry Hall, summoned his children to say their goodbyes.Mr. Murdoch survived, but his brush with death only highlighted the instability in his family — and at the heart of his empire.Mr. Murdoch’s media outlets have promoted right-wing politics and stoked reactionary populism across the globe in recent years.During the 2016 campaign, the Fox News host Sean Hannity advised the president’s former lawyer, Michael D. Cohen, to be on the lookout for ex-girlfriends or former employees of Mr. Trump lest they cause him trouble, according to two people who know about the interactions (Hannity denies offering such advice). Mr. Cohen was later sentenced to three years in prison for paying hush money to two women who said they had affairs with Mr. Trump.[Read the complete investigation into the Murdoch family.]The Murdoch empire has also boldly flexed its muscles in Australia, which was for many years Lachlan’s domain.In Australia, Lachlan expressed disdain for efforts to fight climate change and once rebuked the staff at one of his family’s newspapers, The Australian, for an editorial in support of same-sex marriage (He says through a representative that he is in favor of same-sex marriage). He also became close to the politician Tony Abbott, whose 2013 election as prime minister was given an assist by Murdoch newspapers.The Murdoch family changed Australian politics in 2016 when it took control of Sky News Australia and imported the Fox News model. They quickly introduced a slate of right-wing opinion shows that often focused on race, immigration and climate change. The programming became known as Sky After Dark.Last year, Mr. Turnbull and his staff accused Rupert and Lachlan Murdoch of using their media outlets to help foment the intraparty coup that thrust him from office in August. Mr. Turnbull, a moderate and longtime nemesis of his friend Mr. Abbott, was replaced by the right-wing nationalist Scott Morrison.The Murdochs have denied any role in Mr. Turnbull’s downfall.James Murdoch became disillusioned with the family empire in the years before Lachlan emerged as heir. He came to see Fox News, in particular, as a source of damaging ideological baggage that was hobbling the company’s efforts to innovate and grow.But Lachlan and Rupert did not share that belief. When Roger Ailes, the chief executive of Fox News, was ousted in 2016 amid a sexual harassment scandal, James wanted to revamp the network as a less partisan news outlet. He even floated the idea of hiring David Rhodes, a CBS executive.[Read the complete investigation into the Murdoch family.]His proposals went nowhere. Lachlan and Rupert opposed any change to what they saw as a winning formula and decided to stick with Fox’s incendiary programming.But James believed he had seen firsthand the damage that outlets like Fox News were doing to the company.He was the face of the Murdoch empire in Britain during a 2010 attempt to take over British Sky Broadcasting, in which the company owned a minority stake.That bid was blown to pieces by the 2011 phone hacking scandal, which forced James and his father to appear before Parliament to explain why their employees hacked into the voice mail of private citizens, including a dead 13-year-old girl. The scandal forced the Murdochs to abandon their bid for Sky.Five years later, facing pressure from digital rivals like Netflix and Amazon, the family made a second bid for Sky. James again acted as the empire’s public face. The bid again collapsed in a humiliating scandal.This time it centered on the culture of Fox News, where sexual misconduct allegations and millions of dollars in secret settlements led to the departure of Mr. Ailes, the star host Bill O’Reilly and Bill Shine, an executive who later went to work for President Trump.The behavior of Mr. Hannity, who used his show to spread conspiracy theories about the death of a Democratic National Committee staff member named Seth Rich, also fed concerns in Britain over the ethics of the company.After months of review by regulators — and scrambling inside 21st Century Fox — the British government issued a withering rebuke to the Murdochs last year.Not only did Britain block the company’s bid for Sky, it also ruled that no member of the Murdoch family could serve at Sky in any capacity, including on its board. At the time, James was serving as Sky’s chairman.It was a deep humiliation that convinced James once and for all that the family empire could not survive its own politics and culture. Lachlan instead saw it as validation of his belief that James, having failed to acquire Sky once, had been the wrong man for the job.Either way, by putting a much-needed revenue stream permanently outside the family’s grasp, it helped make the sale of 21st Century Fox inevitable.James and Lachlan were bitterly split over the prospect of selling 21st Century Fox to Disney. James pushed hard for the deal, which was completed last month, and Lachlan fiercely opposed it.Lachlan vociferously opposed the deal because it substantially shrank the company he returned from Australia to one day lead, people closer to his brother said. He felt so strongly that at one point he warned his father he would stop speaking to him if he continued to pursue the deal. Mr. Murdoch ignored that threat. (Lachlan denied making the threat.)[Read the complete investigation into the Murdoch family.]Lachlan’s opposition was also fueled in part by his suspicion that his brother’s judgment had been clouded by personal ambition, people closer to Lachlan said. He thought James was willing to sell 21st Century Fox for less than it was worth because he wanted the deal to include a job for himself at Disney.The deal transformed Disney into a media colossus, and a job there might have enabled James to position himself as a successor to its chief executive, Robert A. Iger. It would also let him escape the family company, its political baggage and the prospect of working for Lachlan.The two brothers clashed over everything. When James wanted to respond to President Trump’s 2017 travel ban with a statement reassuring their company’s Muslim employees, Lachlan strenuously resisted. When James bought their father’s Beverly Hills mansion for $30 million, Lachlan, who had also wanted the house, got so upset that their father gave him some of its antique furniture. James thought he had bought that, too.During the Disney negotiations, Mr. Murdoch grew concerned enough that James’s ambitions might interfere with the deal that he decided to assure Mr. Iger that it was not conditional upon Disney’s hiring his son. In the end, the sale went through, but James did not get a job. Today, the two brothers are barely on speaking terms.After the Disney deal, the commitment of Mr. Murdoch’s children to what remains of his media empire has been called into question.The Disney deal made all of them an enormous amount of money: Mr. Murdoch received $4 billion and his children received $2 billion each. As executives at 21st Century Fox, Lachlan and James got an additional $20 million in Disney stock plus golden parachutes worth $70 million each.[Read the complete investigation into the Murdoch family.]Mr. Murdoch had structured his companies, 21st Century Fox and News Corporation, so that the Murdoch Family Trust held a controlling interest in them. He held half of the trust’s eight votes, and the remaining four were divided up among his four adult children. They were barred from selling those shares to outsiders.James struck out on his own at the end of 2018. To make a more complete break with the company, he and his sisters Elisabeth and Prudence offered to sell their shares to Lachlan.Mr. Murdoch embraced the idea and urged Lachlan to buy out his siblings. Then father and son would own the company together.Bankers drew up documents to execute the sale, but Lachlan backed out; he said that it was not financially doable, though the decision raised questions about his commitment to the company.People close to James said they believed Lachlan was not sure he wanted to stay at the company after the Disney deal was complete. They said he might even want to go back to Australia.April 3, 2019April 3, 2019April 3, 2019

Supported byI still don’t know where or in whose care my daughter was when we were apart. She’s still traumatized.By Sindy FloresMs. Flores is a migrant from Honduras.SAN FRANCISCO — I am an asylum seeker from Honduras and a mother of three children. For over a month my youngest daughter was separated from her father and me by the United States government. I still don’t know where she was during that time or who took care of her. She’s a toddler, so she can’t tell me if something bad happened to her. I don’t know if she thinks we chose to abandon her. All I know is she came back pounds thinner, with lice and a hacking cough, and she cried for days, traumatized by a government that keeps children from their parents because they are migrants.We fled Honduras to the United States because we feared for our lives. I grew up in the capital, Tegucigalpa. In the past few years, my neighborhood has become one of the deadliest in the city. We had had run-ins with the gangs in the past. On Oct. 18, gang members came to our house looking for my partner, Kevin. They showed me their guns and told me, “If you don’t leave in 24 hours, you know what will happen to you.”I knew what they were capable of. When my eldest daughter was 2 years old and I was pregnant with my son, their father was murdered and his body dismembered by gang members. Even after he was killed, we got death threats. We tried moving to another town until things cooled down, but the gangs found us there and extorted us.The death threats started again after Kevin and I got together and our daughter Grethshell was born. People who are deported from the United States as he was are targeted by the gangs, because they are presumed to have money. With the new threats, I grabbed the little money we had, around $80, and filled the children’s backpacks with clothes for them and a doll for Grethshell, who was 15 months old. I picked up my son at school and we made our way to the bus station to meet Kevin. We bought tickets to the closest town in Guatemala, and from there we took another bus to the southern Mexican border. In Mexico, out of money, we traveled on the freight train nicknamed “la Bestia,” the Beast.While we waited for the train in Puebla, Mexican immigration agents showed up and beat people and threw them in vans. In the chaos, I grabbed my two older children and hid in the nearby bushes. Kevin, who was carrying Grethshell in a sling, took off in a different direction. That was the last time I saw them together.During the journey, we had come up with a plan in case we were separated. My uncle lives in San Francisco and that’s where we would reunite. “We’ll find each other there,” Kevin said. “We’ll be safe there.” We arrived at the border at Calexico, Calif., on Dec. 31. Despite appealing for help, I was turned away by the Border Patrol agents. Desperate to reunite our family, I found us a way across in the early morning hours of Jan. 1. We were caught by agents after we crossed and taken to one of the detention centers known as “hieleras,” or iceboxes, because they are kept so cold. There I learned that Kevin was taken to the same detention center with Grethshell and she had been separated from her father. Two fellow migrant women told me that five agents held him down while they ripped her from his arms. Other migrant women were asked to watch her. When I and my two other children were released on Jan. 2, my uncle confirmed what the women had told me. Kevin was charged with a felony for returning to the United States after having been deported. He was taken to jail, while our daughter was sent to a shelter for migrant children in San Antonio. The family separation was not reported to the court on his charging documents. The charges against him were dropped, but Immigration and Customs Enforcement is still using those initial charges as an excuse to keep him detained indefinitely while he fights for asylum.I was told I would be reunited with my daughter in a week, but first I needed to fill out paperwork. Then I was told to provide a credit card with up to a $4,000 credit line for her flight, an impossibility for me. Officials refused to say who was looking after her. Finally I got fed up and went to the press. Grethshell was finally put on a plane and brought to me after I threatened to go to the address I had for the shelter manager and get her myself.When a social worker put my daughter in my arms on Jan. 30, she was inconsolable. My whole body shook as I held her and tried to soothe her, telling her that everything would be O.K. She was so sick I had to take her to the doctor the next day. For three weeks she resisted me, fearful, when I tried to hold her. She still cries out for her father at night.I know I am not alone. There are around 311,000 immigrants who have requested asylum after escaping violence in their home countries like us. Our future is uncertain. My children and I were just evicted from the home we shared with six other people. I’m trying to survive as a single mother of three. I don’t know if we’ll be granted asylum or sent back to our deaths at the hands of the gangs.When I asked to be let into this country because my family was in mortal danger, a Border Patrol agent told me I was weak. That it would be better if I went to Canada. “I don’t care if one of your kids dies,” he said. I wonder what that agent would have done if someone had threatened to murder his children. Wouldn’t he have risked everything to ensure their safety? As the United States decides what kind of country it wants to be, Americans need to reckon with the humanitarian crisis the current administration has created and what these policies have done to families like ours who have come here seeking protection.Sindy Flores is a migrant from Honduras.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported byTimes InsiderIf some of the revelations in Robert S. Mueller III’s long-awaited report sound familiar, it’s because many of them were previously published by The New York Times and other news outlets.By Anna DubenkoTimes Insider explains who we are and what we do, and delivers behind-the-scenes insights into how our journalism comes together.President Trump has spent the last two years denouncing the “fake news” media, and yet some of the key moments in Robert S. Mueller III’s report were uncovered or bolstered through journalists’ investigative scrutiny. Moreover, in seeking to find out whether the president had obstructed justice, Mr. Mueller and his team looked to the administration’s public and private responses to reports in the media.The Mueller report cites work from The New York Times, The Washington Post, CNN and other news outlets dozens of times. Some of the stories published over the past two years were important turning points for the investigation. The report also reveals moments when the president and his aides rebutted stories they knew were true. Televised interviews figure prominently in the report as well. The president’s now-famous sit-down with Lester Holt on “NBC Nightly News” and Rudolph Giuliani’s discussions of pardons for Paul Manafort on CNN were crucial viewing for the Mueller investigative team.The report reveals a lot we didn’t know about how the president and his aides responded to overtures from Russia and how they attempted to thwart investigations. But many of the bombshells in the document were first reported by the press. Below, we’ve rounded up a selection of stories from The New York Times and The Washington Post that shaped this investigation.The Washington PostBy David IgnatiusWhere it shows up: Vol. 2, Page 29 Key quote from the report: “On January 12, 2017, a Washington Post columnist reported that Flynn and Kislyak communicated on the day the Obama Administration announced the Russia sanctions. The column questioned whether Flynn had said something to ‘undercut the U.S. sanctions’ and whether Flynn’s communications had violated the letter or spirit of the Logan Act.” Why it’s important: One of the origin points of the investigation can be found in David Ignatius’s column, which revealed that Michael T. Flynn, Mr. Trump’s choice to serve as national security adviser, had talked to Russian officials during the transition period about possibly lifting sanctions once the Trump administration was in place. The piece set off a string of high-profile denials from the White House, causing alarm among Justice Department officials since they knew Mr. Flynn’s statements to be untrue. Mr. Flynn resigned the following month.The New York TimesBy Peter Baker, Michael S. Schmidt and Maggie Haberman Where it shows up: Vol. 2, Pages 93-94Key quote from the report: “Hicks, who was present for the interview, recalled trying to ‘throw [herself] between the reporters and [the President]’ to stop parts of the interview, but the President ‘loved the interview.’” Why it’s important: Mr. Mueller’s team never got Mr. Trump to sit down for a formal interview. Instead, the president submitted written responses, vetted by his lawyers, to questions from the special counsel. In July 2017, however, Mr. Trump spoke to these three reporters from The New York Times. The Mueller report seizes upon the president’s remarks to The Times about Attorney General Jeff Sessions and his efforts to get Mr. Sessions to withdraw his recusal and reassert control over the Russia inquiry.The Washington PostBy Devlin Barrett, Adam Entous, Ellen Nakashima and Sari Horwitz Where it shows up: Vol. 2, Pages 84-85 Key quote from the report: “On the evening of June 14, 2017, the Washington Post published an article stating that the Special Counsel was investigating whether the President had attempted to obstruct justice. [...] On Saturday, June 17, 2017, the President called McGahn and directed him to have the Special Counsel removed.” Why it’s important: The Washington Post’s reporting that the special counsel’s investigation had expanded into questions of obstruction seemed to have agitated the president. Only two days after The Post’s publication of its story, Mr. Trump called his White House counsel, Donald F. McGahn II, at home from Camp David, directing him to fire the special counsel.The New York TimesBy Michael S. Schmidt and Maggie Haberman Where it shows up: Vol. 2, Pages 113-116 Key quote from the report: “The President began the Oval Office meeting by telling McGahn that the New York Times story did not ‘look good’ and McGahn needed to correct it. McGahn recalled the President said, ‘I never said to fire Mueller. I never said “fire.” This story doesn’t look good. You need to correct this. You’re the White House counsel.’” Why it’s important: In January 2018, The New York Times reported that Mr. McGahn had threatened to quit after the president asked him to fire the special counsel. The fallout and the president’s reaction to the story are integral to the special counsel’s review of whether Mr. Trump obstructed justice.The Washington PostBy Rosalind S. Helderman and Josh Dawsey Where it shows up: Vol. 2, Page 114 Key quote from the report: “The next day, the Washington Post reported on the same event but added that McGahn had not told the President directly that he intended to resign rather than carry out the directive to have the Special Counsel terminated. In that respect, the Post story clarified the Times story, which could be read to suggest that McGahn had told the President of his intention to quit, causing the President to back down from the order to have the Special Counsel fired.” Why it’s important: The Washington Post built on The Times’s reporting about Mr. McGahn’s refusal to fire Mr. Mueller.The New York TimesBy Michael S. Schmidt Where it shows up: Vol. 2, Page 35Key quote from the report: “After Comey’s account of the dinner became public, the President and his advisors disputed that he had asked for Comey’s loyalty. The President also indicated that he had not invited Comey to dinner, telling a reporter that he thought Comey had ‘asked for the dinner’ because ‘he wanted to stay on.’ But substantial evidence corroborates Comey’s account of the dinner invitation and the request for loyalty. The President’s Daily Diary confirms that the President ‘extend[ed] a dinner invitation’ to Comey on January 27.” Why it’s important: We now know that James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director, wanted to make sure that his contemporaneous memorandum about his dinner with the president made it into the hands of the press. In May 2017, The Times revealed Mr. Comey’s account of this meeting, detailing the president’s insistence that he pledge his loyalty. The report makes clear that, despite the administration’s denials, The Times’s reporting on this meeting is accurate.Follow the @ReaderCenter on Twitter for more coverage highlighting your perspectives and experiences and for insight into how we work.Anna Dubenko is an editor for off platform strategy. She was previously the editorial director at Digg and an editor at The Huffington Post.  @annadubenko 

Supported byBy Remy Tumin and Lance BoothHere are the week’s top stories, and a look ahead.1. A monumental victory for Tiger Woods.The golfer’s comeback from personal and professional adversity is complete. He captured his fifth Masters title and his 15th major tournament, snapping a championship drought of nearly 11 years.It was a triumph for the ages.Have you been keeping up with the headlines? Test your knowledge with our news quiz. And here’s the front page of our Sunday paper, the Sunday Review from Opinion and our crossword puzzles._____2. Space dominated the news this week.Astronomers captured the first-ever images of a black hole, peering inside one of the deepest, darkest abysses in the cosmos. Here’s how they did it.Back on Earth, NASA studied the twin astronauts Mark and Scott Kelly while one was on Earth and one was in space. The results show just how much space can change you. But in the year Scott Kelly spent orbiting Earth, he didn’t just gather data for the study: He produced some, well, stellar images.Separately, Falcon Heavy, the most powerful rocket in operation, successfully launched into orbit. It represents the latest advancement for SpaceX.____3. A more complete picture of the events leading up to Julian Assange’s arrest is beginning to emerge.The Ecuadorean Embassy in London protected the WikiLeaks founder from prosecution for years, but its tolerance wore thin. There were disputes over his behavior, his cat and his personal hygiene.When embarrassing photos of Ecuador’s president were published last month, he blamed WikiLeaks. After his vice president vowed to take action against Mr. Assange, the country made good on its threat on Thursday, when it opened the door to London police officers who carted Mr. Assange away, above. “Saturday Night Live” drew on the arrest for its opening sketch.The U.S. requested the extradition of Mr. Assange, who is charged with conspiring to hack into a Pentagon computer in 2010. But the extradition process promises to be long, and complicated.____4. President Trump urged an official to close the border. He said his administration was “strongly” considering releasing migrants into mostly Democratic “sanctuary cities.” And now part of Mr. Trump’s immigration strategy has the backing of the courts.A federal appeals court said on Friday that the Trump administration could temporarily continue to force migrants seeking asylum in the U.S. to wait in Mexico while their cases are decided. The dispute will roll into next week with new arguments scheduled. One new reason for a surge in migration: climate change. Above, the border in El Paso.In other Washington news, House Democrats may be setting themselves up for a legal fight over Mr. Trump’s tax returns. Here’s what we might learn from the documents.And Congress has gone on a two-week recess, but that won’t affect the release of the redacted Mueller report, which is expected within days.____5. There are (currently) 18 presidential hopefuls in the Democratic field. Only one can be the nominee. What do the others stand to gain?A lot, it turns out. There are book deals and TV contracts and maybe even a cabinet position if your side wins. Recent history suggests there is almost no downside to giving it a shot. Above, Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey officially kicked off his campaign in Newark on Saturday.And there’s a new way Democrats will be selecting their nominee: Fewer states will have caucuses in 2020.Meanwhile, Republicans are poll-testing ways to portray Democrats as too extreme on issues like health care, abortion and the environment. Democrats worry that the messaging is working.____6. From the U.S. election to international elections:The biggest election in history is underway in India. The country has 900 million voters (over 10 percent of the world’s population) and is committed to polling every one of them, no matter how isolated. Voting began on Thursday and lasts for several weeks. Here’s a short guide. Above, a woman voting in Muzaffarnagar, India.Separately, Israelis re-elected Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to a fourth term, cementing a conservative bend toward power. Mr. Netanyahu may benefit from an effort by his right-wing coalition to protect him from prosecution on possible corruption charges.____7. Google tracks millions of phones worldwide, and the police are using its database to find suspects. But the dragnet can also snare the innocent.The database, called Sensorvault, has a trove of detailed location records involving at least hundreds of millions of devices worldwide, The Times found. Here’s what the database is and how it works. Above, the site of a shooting in a Phoenix suburb where Google location data was used to track down a suspect.This week, The Times’s Opinion section debuted a new project that explores the boundaries of privacy today. The columnist Farhad Manjoo writes how the latest innovations in tech are elevating questions of privacy into much larger issues.____8. And now for some words fans thought they’d never hear: “Game of Thrones” is back.After a nearly two-year hiatus, one of the most popular shows in the history of TV returns tonight. You’ve got questions, we’ve got answers in this guide to seasons past and predictions moving forward. Our TV critic is hoping for less stabbing and more blabbing this season.Separately, the Writers Guild of America told its 13,000 movie and TV writers to fire their agents after talks broke down hours before deadline.____9. It’s festival season, but the real action at Coachella this year is happening offstage.One of the country’s largest music festivals, happening this weekend and next in Indio, Calif., Coachella has morphed from an arbiter of status to launching pad for globally minded stars.With new films by Childish Gambino, above, and Beyoncé, and an Easter Sunday service from Kanye West, this year’s Coachella will be different. We explored why.____10. Finally, it’s time to settle in to one of our Best Weekend Reads.We have articles about a new train in the Horn of Africa, the promise of success at a public school, above, backed by the N.B.A. star LeBron James, and everything you wanted to know (and maybe didn’t) about a royal baby on the way.For more suggestions on what to read, watch and listen to, check out these eight new books our editors liked, the latest small-screen recommendations from Watching, and our music critics’ latest playlist.Have a thrilling week.____Your Weekend Briefing is published Sundays at 6 a.m. Eastern.You can sign up here to get our Morning Briefings by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning, or here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.

Supported byAt WarBy Kelly McHugh-Stewart[For more stories about the experiences and costs of war, sign up for the weekly At War newsletter.]My husband, Mark, looked at me, confused. “You used to like this stuff?” he asked as he choked back a laugh and dipped his brown plastic spoon into his mushy shredded barbecue beef. “You have to mix it up,” I said. “So the heat is evenly spread throughout.” I tore the top off my own meal: spaghetti with beef and sauce. The aroma — a mix of SpaghettiOs and hot Spam — rushed out of the packet and into my face. It smelled like home.Growing up, I was obsessed with Meals, Ready to Eat (which are almost exclusively referred to by their abbreviation: M.R.E.s). The thick plastic pouches containing about 1,250 calories of highly preserved food were introduced in 1981 and mark a significant upgrade from the “C ration” of old. With their airtight, heavy-duty packaging, they can withstand just about any climate and are designed to last a minimum of three years with no refrigeration. They give troops a taste of home and the ability to maintain a high-calorie diet while away on the battlefield. In my Army household, there was always one lying around somewhere: in the back of my dad’s car, in the garage, in a closet.Nothing beat eating dinner from those brown plastic pouches, and that’s why, when I saw M.R.E.s for sale on Amazon, I bought them for $15 apiece. I posted a picture on social media, and my military friends all laughed — “I have a case in my garage I could have just given you,” my cousin, an Army veteran, wrote to me. But as I opened the shipment in my little apartment, it felt like I’d just opened a box filled with childhood memorabilia. I was finally able to give my husband a literal taste of my past.Mark cut open his M.R.E. and spilled its contents onto our coffee table. He held up the bag and eyed the instructions printed on its packaging. A water-activated heating packet uses a powdered mix of magnesium metal, iron and salt to generate the heat that warms up the meal. With the shredded barbecue beef packet tucked inside, I poured water into the heating envelope and watched as it almost instantly began to bubble. When I was a kid, this always felt like magic. The instructions call for you to lean the package against a “rock or something.” My father used to take this part very seriously, sending my siblings and me out into our yard to find a rock big enough to get the job done. Mark and I leaned our heaters against a stack of books instead.[Tell us about your favorite M.R.E. recipe hacks.]We’ve been together for six years and married for three, and in that time I’ve spent time in and fallen in love with his hometown: McLouth, Kan. I’ve cheered for the McLouth Bulldogs from the cold metal bleachers of the same small-town high school stadium where Mark once played football as the team’s quarterback. I’ve driven down the same winding dirt roads where he and his friends used to drive, sometimes sneaking beers while parked underneath the big Kansas sky. I’ve slept in his childhood bedroom, the walls still plastered with clippings from local newspapers and posters of ’90s sports icons like Michael Jordan and Emmitt Smith.The idea of growing up in the same town, let alone the same house, all of my life was foreign to me when Mark and I first met. During my father’s 24-year Army career, my family lived in 11 different houses in five states and two countries. While I never had a hometown, I did have a culture. The Army culture was — still is — home to me, and M.R.E.s are a part of that.My siblings and I weren’t allowed to eat M.R.E.s often. My mother said they would constipate us; back then I didn’t know what that meant, so I’d just roll my eyes. They were saved for special occasions, like camping trips or, sometimes, the nights my dad was in charge of dinner while my mom was out with other Army wives playing Bunco, a dice game that was popular back then. My father could have offered us anything for dinner on these nights — pizza, Burger King, ice cream — but we would choose M.R.E.s over everything.Eating an M.R.E. was an adventure, and we savored every bite. My first experiences of anxiety came during those times I had to choose which one I wanted for dinner, though I rarely had more than two or three options. The main entree was printed in dark brown letters on the front of the pack:Menu No. 12 Cheese TortelliniMenu No. 17 Beef RavioliMenu No. 23 Meatloaf With GravyStaring at the packages lying side by side on our counter, my hands would shake as they hovered over the rations before grabbing one. It was a difficult decision; in my mind, an M.R.E. wasn’t about just the entree. It was about the extras that weren’t mentioned on the outside of the package: the dry yellow cake or the brownie that crumbled into a million pieces the second the packaging was unsealed. The bready crackers with, if you were really lucky, the cheese spread, and if you were unlucky, the chunky peanut butter. Jalapeño or regular cheddar, it didn’t matter, I loved that cheese spread. There was nothing more disappointing than ripping open an M.R.E., seeing the peanut butter packaging and knowing you’d have to wait until next time to try your luck at the cheese.There are so many things created for war that remind me of my childhood: “Reveille” in the morning and “Retreat” in the evening; Black Hawk helicopters and their big, echoey hangars; dusty brown boots, camouflage uniforms and heavy flight helmets. These were just parts of the job for my father, but they defined my childhood. I grew up on-post, in a military bubble, saying “Yes, sir,” and “Yes, ma’am,” using military time and speaking in acronyms. I showed my military ID card at the Shoppette when I filled my first car with gas and then again at the gym, the commissary and the PX. These on-post amenities were created exclusively for service members and their dependents, but as a child I never knew they were unique to my community.I’ve never served in the military myself, but I’ll always feel a kinship to those wearing a uniform when I walk by them at airports or see them on subway platforms. I’ll forever smile when I hear the familiar hum of a Black Hawk or Chinook helicopter flying overhead. I will continue to feel a little extra pride for the Army every year on Flag Day, the service’s birthday. Because, like M.R.E.s, these things are a reminder of my “home.”“They’re not so bad, right?” I said to Mark with a smile, breaking my dry cracker in half and smearing the lumpy cheese spread on each piece. Growing up, I never, never would have shared this precious M.R.E. side dish with anyone. “This cheesy stuff,” he said, eyeing the cracker before taking a bite. “It’s not that bad.”Kelly McHugh-Stewart (@kellystewart01) holds an M.F.A. in creative writing from The New School and is currently working on a memoir about her father, Col. John M. McHugh, who was killed in action in Kabul, Afghanistan, in 2010.Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of At War delivered to your inbox every week. For more coverage of conflict, visit nytimes.com/atwar.

Supported byLetter 102By Isabella KwaiThe Australia Letter is a weekly newsletter from our Australia bureau. This week is written by Isabella Kwai, an Australian reporter with the bureau. Sign up to get it by email.___At first, the American preacher blended with the quiet commuters on the Sydney train. That is, until he opened his mouth. As the American, Phillip Blair, began a sermon about unborn children, an Australian reading a book interjected.“Mate if you ask for our time, we have the right to say: no, we’re not giving it to you,” the Australian, Malcolm Frawley, said. “Why don’t you just shut up?”The recorded exchange that followed, in which Mr. Blair plunged forward despite insistent requests from Mr. Frawley, went viral last week. Many on the internet cheered Mr. Frawley’s response, but as I watched, I wondered if there was something especially Australian about it.A slightly different form of resistance to preaching emerged this week when a protest by vegan activists halted morning traffic in Melbourne. The protest was called “un-Australian” by the prime minister, exposing a rift between a growing population of non-meat eaters and farmers who are considered the lifeblood of Australia.Clearly, if there’s one thing many people here dislike, it’s being told what to do or how to think. But in a country where the major political parties tend to be moderate, the secular population is growing, and the population is diversifying, are Australians becoming more frustrated with extremes, and more willing to confront deep but challenging beliefs?After all, it’s not as if Australians aren’t activists. Last month, students across Australia joined those around to world to demand action on climate change. And in the 2017 lead-up to the passage of same-sex marriage, many campaigned fiercely both for and against.Still, for a country that has been known to embrace its iconoclasts (see: egg boy) we can be far more suspicious of extreme individual behavior than our American counterparts. In New York and elsewhere, subway preaching is ignored rather than challenged; while there are exceptions, many Americans accept that their First Amendment brings with it a degree of uncomfortable speech.Mr. Frawley described a different, perhaps more Australian, sensibility. In an interview with The Project, he said he spoke up because he thought faith was a private thing that shouldn’t be inflicted on others in public.“In the age of Trump, I don’t think it helped that it was another loudmouthed American,” he added.The vegan protest also seems to have backfired. While it convinced some to reconsider their diet, many others said that the intrusion had only encouraged them to eat more meat.Which is why I’d like to hear from you: What makes some public protests acceptable and others more problematic? Do you think there is a right way to express strongly held beliefs in public, or should we all just leave each other alone?Let me know what you think at nytaustralia@nytimes.com.Also, if you enjoyed our blockbuster investigation into the influence of the Murdoch family last week, the media columnist Jim Rutenberg, one of the writers behind it, will answer questions in our Facebook group today. The reporting involved visits to three continents, including Australia, and interviews with more than 150 people.Have a question about the story? We invite you to join the group or email us your questions at nytaustralia@nytimes.com.Now, on to the biggest stories of the week.____The WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange was arrested on Thursday in London to face a charge in the United States of conspiring to hack a Pentagon computer network. It’s an abrupt end to a seven-year period in which he lived in isolation at the Ecuadorean Embassy to avoid capture.To supporters, Mr. Assange was a champion of free speech. To the United States government, he was a pariah.But to the Ecuadorean government, he had become an unwanted houseguest. Read how Mr. Assange became a target for the United States government, and why this case raises concerns about press freedom.____And we’re off. The federal election has been set for May 18. What’s happening next? Here’s an explainer.In other stories:• The Australian actor Geoffrey Rush won his defamation case against the parent company of a newspaper that published articles accusing him of sexual harassment.• As Americans worry about their economy, our winning streak is about to turn 28. Still, Neil Irwin writes, Australians are aware that the good times could end.• New Zealand passed a law banning most semiautomatic weapons, weeks after the mosque attack.• The hyper-realist drawings of Australian artist Cj Hendry leave viewers in awe on Instagram. But can she woo the art world?• Australia’s lo-fi wine movement: Meet the winemakers who are part of a global effort to reject conventional thinking.• Restaurant Shik in Melbourne has closed. In our review last year, Besha Rodell called it “such a significant leap forward for Korean food in Australia that it’s in danger of missing its audience entirely.”____Here are four of our best-read stories this week.• Health|A Mysterious Infection, Spanning the Globe in a Climate of Secrecy: The rise of Candida auris embodies a serious and growing public health threat: drug-resistant germs.• Science|Darkness Visible, Finally: Astronomers Capture First Ever Image of a Black Hole: Astronomers at last have captured a picture of one of the most secretive entities in the cosmos.• Middle East|It’s Netanyahu’s Israel now: Benjamin Netanyahu’s re-election as prime minister of Israel attests to a starkly conservative vision of the Jewish state and its people.• U.S.|In San Francisco, Making A Living From Your Billionaire Neighbors’ Trash: One of the world’s richest men and a trash picker, living a few minutes’ walk from each other.Are there stories that have resonated with you? You can send them to me at nytaustralia@nytimes.com____Many shared with us your top issues for the coming federal election. Thanks to all who wrote or shared in our Facebook group. Here’s one response from a reader whose vote is based on climate change.“Undoubtedly my vote will be based on climate change policies. As far as I can see the two parties are not so dissimilar on infrastructure/social financial policies, but the coalition is studiously ignoring the quite obvious impact of climate change — heads literally in the sand perhaps?Neither party appears to have a comprehensive and considered let alone creative policy on the many facets of this enormous and critical issue. Labor is best of the two major parties. Unfortunately I don’t warm to the Green’s leadership but unless a local independent candidate comes up with a more holistic scheme I will vote for them — as a protest vote. At least I know that in another three years, a whole lot more young people will be eligible to vote and I imagine that even the deaf and blind will recognize that climate policy is likely to become as important budget issue and health and education. Sadly three years is a long time.”— Suzie St George

Supported byCalifornia TodayBy Jill CowanGood morning.(Here’s the sign-up, if you don’t already get California Today by email.)In recent years, journalists and advocates have tried to capture the scope of the Bay Area’s homelessness crisis — a problem that often feels unfathomable in its depth and complexity.Still, much of the discussion has centered on San Francisco, or on the efforts of individual cities throughout the region.[Read about a debate over a homeless services center proposed for a waterfront location in San Francisco.]Today, the Bay Area Council Economic Institute, the think-tank arm of a business group, is set to release a report that examines the issue through a regional lens.“One of the things about the Bay Area is, it’s a wonderful place, but it’s very divided up,” Jim Wunderman, the council’s president and chief executive, told me. “We have 101 cities in nine counties around this very large bay and there’s no one city that dominates the landscape.”But that isn’t how programs aimed at moving people into housing have been implemented, he said, even as more people in smaller suburbs find themselves in tenuous housing situations, and more people live out of their cars, which means they’re mobile.The group wanted to explore ways to scale up successful programs and boost coordination among communities. To do that, Mr. Wunderman said, the group needed to better understand what was at stake.The report found:• Roughly 28,200 people were homeless across the Bay Area, according to point-in-time counts in 2017. That was the third largest population in the country, after New York (76,500) and Los Angeles (55,200). The next largest overall number was 11,600 in Seattle and King County.• But the Bay Area has a relatively large percentage of homeless people without shelter (indicating there’s a shortage of subsidized housing, short-term shelters and transitional housing). That was 67 percent. That’s compared with just 5 percent in New York and 47 percent in Seattle and King County. Once again, though, Los Angeles had the largest percentage of unsheltered homeless people: 75 percent.• The analysis found that spending on services for people experiencing homelessness or people who were at risk varied widely across the region. Part of that stems from the fact that the costs to build vary widely.For instance, the report said, building new permanently supportive housing costs $730,560 on average per unit in San Francisco County, compared with $393,580 per unit on average in Solano County.However, Mr. Wunderman said that particular finding shouldn’t be taken as a sign that services, housing and emergency shelter should be concentrated in the least expensive parts of the Bay.“We’re going to continue to need to develop programs locally,” he said. “I think this is a burden that has to be shouldered by everyone.”Mr. Wunderman suggested one way to persuade communities to do their part: Tie state money to initiatives.[Here’s what Californians said about our state’s housing affordability.](We often link to sites that limit access for nonsubscribers. We appreciate your reading Times stories, but we’d also encourage you to support local news if you can.)• A day after more than a dozen parents in the sprawling college admissions fraud case agreed to plead guilty, 16 others, including the actress Lori Loughlin, faced new money laundering charges. And now, another question is looming: Will any of them see time behind bars? [The New York Times]• Not long after Representative Devin Nunes sued Twitter, Mr. Nunes sued the McClatchy newspaper chain for an article he said amounted to “character assassination.” His complaint was over an article about a lawsuit in which a server working on a cruise attended by top investors in a winery he part-owned said the party involved drugs and prostitution. [The New York Times]• “The phenomena here is where life is transient, Facebook is not.” The social network said it would try to stop people from getting suggestions to wish their dead friends “Happy birthday.” [The New York Times]• Three women in Los Angeles who said they were sexually assaulted by drivers pretending to work for Uber sued the ride-hailing giant, alleging that the company failed to adequately warn them about impostors. [NBC4]• Are stories about assault involving Uber and Lyft drivers, or people posing as them, worrying you? Here are some tips to stay safe. [The New York Times]• A $650 million Lacma renovation was approved on Tuesday. But the design by Peter Zumthor, which would shrink gallery space, has been controversial. [The New York Times]• Richmond’s mayor pranked constituents on April Fools’ Day by saying that the Richmond-San Rafael Bridge would close and might need to be replaced. Then, after the bridge needed emergency repairs for the second time this year, a state legislator called to make the prank a reality. [Curbed San Francisco]• In the wake of a disastrous season for the Lakers, Magic Johnson made the shocking announcement that he’d be stepping down as the team’s president. “I want to go back to having fun,” he said. [The New York Times]• Here are some of the N.B.A. legend’s biggest moments while running the Lakers. [The New York Times]• Another storied California basketball team got a new coach after a lengthy search: Cincinnati’s Mick Cronin will lead the U.C.L.A. Bruins. [The Los Angeles Times]• The U.S. women’s soccer team thrashed Belgium in L.A. on Sunday. It’s still in the midst of a battle over pay equity, though the team has negotiated bonuses for match performances. [The New York Times]It didn’t involve any high-level software hacking or Russian interference.But two candidates in a Berkeley High School student election were disqualified after school administrators said they perpetrated large-scale voting fraud, exposing major cybersecurity vulnerabilities.How’d they do it? They used their classmates’ default password format to sign in and vote for them, Berkeleyside reported. The scandal played out as students face intense pressure to rack up extracurricular activities for their college applications.“I was just so angry,” Lexie Tesch, the junior who was ultimately — legitimately — voted student body president, told the news site. “I didn’t want people to lose faith in democracy because of this.”California Today goes live at 6:30 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com. Were you forwarded this email? Sign up for California Today here.Jill Cowan grew up in Orange County, went to school at U.C. Berkeley and has reported all over the state, including the Bay Area, Bakersfield and Los Angeles — but she always wants to see more. Follow along here or on Twitter, @jillcowan.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.

Supported byBillionsBy Sean T. CollinsWhen “Billions” is at its best, as it certainly was tonight, recapping is a dicey proposition. Focus on one element and you inevitably give short shrift to another equally entertaining aspect.And more than any other show currently airing, “Billions” deploys a whole lot of very different ways to entertain you: a satire of extreme wealth and power as well as an alluring recreation of it; a financial and political thriller, tag-teamed with a comedy of manners; a parade of terrific character actors knocking around crisp, reference-heavy dialogue like a badminton shuttlecock; a sensitive and idiosyncratic depiction of a gender-nonbinary character, mixed with a humanizing and nonjudgmental depiction of sadomasochism within the context of a loving relationship.This week’s episode was all that and more, and it forced a dramatic shift upon the entire series.There’s no sense beating around the bush here. Faced with the certain exposure of his kinky sex life, Chuck Rhoades decides to risk sacrificing his wife’s reputation at the altar of his own ambition to become the attorney general, preemptively revealing that he is a sexual submissive to the world. On Election Day. And he wins.It’s a blockbuster moment for the series — and, perhaps, a central one. Keep in mind that the pilot episode opened with Chuck, stripped down and tied up, the same way that “Game of Thrones” began with zombies and White Walkers attacking normal humans. In both cases, an expanding cast and a few seasons of byzantine political machinations helped detract attention from what was lurking there all along.A big difference here, of course, is that Chuck Rhoades is no stoic, mute Night King. He’s Paul freakin’ Giamatti, and is there any actor more fun to listen to? His voice modulates with nearly every word of dialogue, as if he weren’t speaking each sentence so much as juggling it.It’s a great fit for a character who is not only constantly thinking but also must do so demonstratively, whether to intimidate his enemies, reassure his allies or simply please his own vanity. Watching him tell a roomful of reporters what he must do “in order to achieve sexual gratification,” seeming to re-evaluate how far to take his confession several times per sentence, is a consummate pleasure.The fallout is immediate: positive politically and disastrous personally. Chuck wins the election (I defy you to read the news for five minutes and then tell me this isn’t possible), and impresses the hell out of his increasingly close associate Bobby Axelrod, who promises his first wisecrack about Rhoades’s predilections will be his last. (“I doubt that,” Chuck deadpans.)To Bobby, at least, Chuck remains a man of his word. Making good on his promise last episode to perform a service for Axe postelection, Chuck freezes the assets of the Russian plutocrat and staunch Axelrod adversary Grigor Andolov. Bobby tells Grigor he can have it unfrozen only if he returns to his home country, never to return.Just in time, too: On a day when Bobby and company were prepared to make a killing by exploiting advance notice of a natural gas disaster, Andolov brute-force hacked Axe Cap’s entire internet and phone system. The awe with which the young, internet-native staff regard Bobby and Wags as they wheel and deal on burner cellphones, “Wolf of Wall Street”-style, and wind up doing nearly as well as they would have anyway is one of the night’s funniest moments. (Top honors go to Condola Rashad’s look of dumbfounded disbelief as Chuck’s former employee Kate Sacker when she learns what her old boss gets up to in bed.)Still, the Russian had to go in order for Bobby, his American counterpart, to truly thrive, and it’s Chuck who does the deed — despite Andolov’s attempt to exploit Chuck’s sexual adventurousness by promising him overseas exploits so extreme he dare not even mention them aloud.But someone has to lose to make all this winning possible, and that’s undoubtedly Wendy, whom Chuck humiliates on the grandest stage of them all. It’s not that she feels either of them should be ashamed of their sexual fetishes — “Billions” has always been resolute in maintaining that kink is not an indicator of personal or marital dysfunction, and for that it deserves enormous credit. On the contrary, Wendy knows that the consent Chuck gives her to hurt him is what makes their relationship work.But she emphatically did not consent to having their sex lives dragged into the spotlight, risking her professional relationships and embarrassing their children. The next thing she knows, she’s watching him out her as a dominatrix on the 5 o’clock news.As she’s done many times in the past, Maggie Siff underplays Wendy’s frustration and anger, which has the effect of making what comes through seem that much more intimidating and sincere. What Chuck has done to her is a grotesque violation, and his failure to act as if it were anything more than a spat that can be patched over is indicative of his deep moral shortcomings.Yet even in this episode, there are moments of human connection to savor. Taylor Mason’s dad, Douglas, visits with a business proposal that his brainiac offspring is visibly thrilled to realize is worth backing. “I’m gonna be in business with my … child,” Douglas says, respecting Taylor’s nonbinary status to their mutual joy. On a less wholesome but still sincere(ish) note, Bobby and his billionaire girlfriend, Rebecca, stage a takeover of a struggling convenience-store chain the way the rest of us might approach going to the laundromat; his purchase of his-and-hers Mercedes for $132,000 a pop is a grimly funny reminder of just how far removed from the rest of us these people are.Even Chuck has good within him. Take his final battle against the New York power broker Jack Foley, who’s the reason he has to out himself as a masochist. Foley knows the secret. He has passed it on to United States Attorney General Jock Jeffcoat, who hates Chuck even more than he does. And he tells Chuck he will not hesitate to expose him if that’s what it takes to keep that office clean.As Black Jack, the actor David Strathairn is marvelous here. Foley is sincerely worked up about this, his eyes teary, his voice wavering. Before our eyes, he melts through his kingmaker character’s sang-froid to reveal the idealism he still harbors in his heart, misguided though it may be.The favor is returned, so to speak, when Chuck learns from his lieutenant Karl Allard (the great Allan Havey) the reason Jack is playing hardball: He has terminal cancer, and this is his last stand. Even though he’s in a fight for his political life against the guy, Chuck is saddened by his enemy’s illness. Moments like these keep him a character worth rooting for, if only barely.I appreciate that there’s room for humanizing beats like these on a show this (appropriately) cynical about wealth and power. All other considerations about character development and realistic human behavior aside, it would be pretty boring if all anyone here ever cared about was winning.



      By THE NEW YORK TIMES

APRIL 18, 2019

These findings, from the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, detail his two-year investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election. The document has been redacted by the Justice Department.
Special Counsel Robert S. Mueller, IIISubmitted Pursuant to 28 C.F.R. § 600.8(c) Washington, D.C.March 2019Volume 1: Russian InterferenceINTRODUCTION TO VOLUME IEXECUTIVE SUMMARY TO VOLUMEI. THE SPECIAL COUNSEL’S INVESTIGATIONII. RUSSIAN “ACTIVE MEASURES” SOCIAL MEDIA CAMPAIGNA. Structure of the Internet Research AgencyB. Funding and Oversight from Concord and PrigozhinC. The IRA Targets U.S. Elections1. The IRA Ramps Up U.S. Operations As Early As 20142. U.S. Operations Through IRA-Controlled Social Media Accounts3. U.S. Operations Through Facebook4. U.S. Operations Through Twittera. Individualized Accountsb. IRA Botnet Activities5. U.S. Operations Involving Political Rallies6. Targeting and Recruitment of U.S. Persons7. Interactions and Contacts with the Trump Campaigna. Trump Campaign Promotion of IRA Political Materialsb. Contact with Trump Campaign Officials in Connection to RalliesIII. RUSSIAN HACKING AND DUMPING OPERATIONSA. GRU Hacking Directed at the Clinton Campaign1. GRU Units Target the Clinton Campaign2. Intrusions into the DCCC and DNC Networksa. Initial Accessb. Implantation of Malware on DCCC and DNC Networksc. Theft of Documents from DNC and DCCC NetworksB. Dissemination of the Hacked Materials.1. DCLeaks2. Guccifer 2.03. Use of WikiLeaksa. WikiLeaks’s Expressed Opposition Toward the Clinton Campaignb. WikiLeaks’s First Contact with Guccifer 2.0 and DCLeaksVol. 1, Table of Contentsc. The GRU’s Transfer of Stolen Materials to WikiLeaksd. WikiLeaks Statements Dissembling About the Source of Stolen MaterialC. Additional GRU Cyber Operations1. Summer and Fall 2016 Operations Targeting Democrat-Linked Victims2. Intrusions Targeting the Administration of U.S. ElectionsD. Trump Campaign and the Dissemination of Hacked Materials1. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■a. Backgroundb. Contacts with the Campaign about WikiLeaksc. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■d. WikiLeaks’s October 7, 2016 Release of Stolen Podesta Emailse. Donald Trump Jr. Interaction with WikiLeaks2. Other Potential Campaign Interest in Russian Hacked Materialsa. Henry Oknyansky (a/k/a Henry Greenberg)b. Campaign Efforts to Obtain Deleted Clinton EmailsIV. RUSSIAN GOVERNMENT LINKS TO AND CONTACTS WITH THE TRUMP CAMPAIGNA. Campaign Period (September 2015 – November 8, 2016)1. Trump Tower Moscow Projecta. Trump Tower Moscow Venture with the Crocus Group (2013 – 2014)b. Communications with I.C. Expert Investment Company and Giorgi Rtskhiladze (Summer and Fall 2015)c. Letter of Intent and Contacts to Russian Government (October 2015 – January 2016)i. Trump Signs the Letter of Intent on behalf of the Trump Organizationii. Post-LOI Contacts with Individuals in Russiad. Discussions about Russia Travel by Michael Cohen or Candidate Trump (December 2015 – June 2016)i. Sater’s Overtures to Cohen to Travel to Russiaii. Candidate Trump’s Opportunities to Travel to Russia2. George Papadopoulosa. Origins of Campaign Workb. Initial Russia-Related Contactsc. March 31 Foreign Policy Team MeetingVol. 1, Table of Contentsd. George Papadopoulos Learns That Russia Has “Dirt” in the Form of Clinton Emailse. Russia-Related Communications With The Campaignf. Trump Campaign Knowledge of “Dirt” g. Additional George Papadopoulos Contact3. Carter Pagea. Backgroundb. Origins of and Early Campaign Workc. Carter Page’s July 2016 Trip To Moscowd. Later Campaign Work and Removal from the Campaign4. Dimitri Simes and the Center for the National Interesta. CNI and Dimitri Simes Connect with the Trump Campaignb. National Interest Hosts a Foreign Policy Speech at the Mayflower Hotelc. Jeff Sessions’s Post-Speech Interactions with CNId. Jared Kushner’s Continuing Contacts with Simes5. June 9, 2016 Meeting at Trump Towera. Setting Up the June 9 Meetingi. Outreach to Donald Trump Jr.ii. Awareness of the Meeting Within the Campaign b. The Events of June 9, 2016i. Arrangements for the Meetingii. Conduct of the Meetingc. Post-June 9 Events6. Events at the Republican National Conventiona. Ambassador Kislyak’s Encounters with Senator Sessions and J.D. Gordon the Week of the RNCb. Change to Republican Party Platform7. Post-Convention Contacts with Kislyaka. Ambassador Kislyak Invites J.D. Gordon to Breakfast at the Ambassador’s Residenceb. Senator Sessions’s September 2016 Meeting with Ambassador Kislyak8. Paul Manaforta. Paul Manafort’s Ties to Russia and UkraineVol. 1, Table of Contentsi. Oleg Deripaska Consulting Workii. Political Consulting Workiii. Konstantin Kilimnikb. Contacts during Paul Manafort’s Time with the Trump Campaigni. Paul Manafort Joins the Campaignii. Paul Manafort’s Campaign-Period Contactsiii. Paul Manafort’s Two Campaign-Period Meetings with Konstantin Kilimnik in the United Statesc. Post-Resignation ActivitiesB. Post-Election and Transition-Period Contacts1. Immediate Post-Election Activitya. Outreach from the Russian Governmentb. High-Level Encouragement of Contacts through Alternative Channels2. Kirill Dmitriev’s Transition-Era Outreach to the Incoming Administrationa. Backgroundb. Kirill Dmitriev’s Post-Election Contacts With the Incoming Administrationc. Erik Prince and Kirill Dmitriev Meet in the Seychellesi. George Nader and Erik Prince Arrange Seychelles Meeting with Dmitrievii. The Seychelles Meetingsiii. Erik Prince&amp;aposs Meeting with Steve Bannon after the Seychelles Tripd. Kirill Dmitriev’s Post-Election Contact with Rick Gerson Regarding U.S.-Russia Relations3. Ambassador Kislyak’s Meeting with Jared Kushner and Michael Flynn in Trump Tower Following the Election4. Jared Kushner’s Meeting with Sergey Gorkov5. Petr Aven’s Outreach Efforts to the Transition Team6. Carter Page Contact with Deputy Prime Minister Arkady Dvorkovich7. Contacts with and Through Michael T. Flynna. United Nations Vote on Israeli Settlementsb. U.S. Sanctions Against RussiaV. PROSECUTION AND DECLINATION DECISIONSA. Russian “Active Measures” Social Media CampaignVol. 1, Table of ContentsB. Russian Hacking and Dumping Operations1. Section 1030 Computer-Intrusion Conspiracya. Backgroundb. Charging Decision As to ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■2. Potential Section 1030 Violation By ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■C. Russian Government Outreach and Contacts1. Potential Coordination: Conspiracy and Collusion2. Potential Coordination: Foreign Agent Statutes (FARA and 18 U.S.C. § 951)a. Governing Lawb. Application3. Campaign Financea. Overview Of Governing Lawb. Application to June 9 Trump Tower Meetingi. Thing-of-Value Elementii. Willfulnessiii. Difficulties in Valuing Promised Informationc. Application to WikiLeaks ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■i. Questions Over ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ii. Willfulnessiii. Constitutional Considerationsiv. Analysis ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■4. False Statements and Obstruction of the Investigationa. Overview Of Governing Lawb. Application to Certain Individualsi. George Papadopoulosii. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■iii. Michael Flynniv. Michael Cohenv. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■vi. Jeff Sessionsvii. Others Interviewed During the InvestigationVol. 1, Table of ContentsThis report is submitted to the Attorney General pursuant to 28 C.F.R. § 600.8(c), which states that, “[a]t the conclusion of the Special Counsel’s work, he ... shall provide the Attorney General a confidential report explaining the prosecution or declination decisions [the Special Counsel] reached.”The Russian government interfered in the 2016 presidential election in sweeping and systematic fashion. Evidence of Russian government operations began to surface in mid-2016. In June, the Democratic National Committee and its cyber response team publicly announced that Russian hackers had compromised its computer network. Releases of hacked materials—hacks that public reporting soon attributed to the Russian government—began that same month. Additional releases followed in July through the organization WikiLeaks, with further releases in October and November.In late July 2016, soon after WikiLeaks’s first release of stolen documents, a foreign government contacted the FBI about a May 2016 encounter with Trump Campaign foreign policy advisor George Papadopoulos. Papadopoulos had suggested to a representative of that foreign government that the Trump Campaign had received indications from the Russian government that it could assist the Campaign through the anonymous release of information damaging to Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton. That information prompted the FBI on July 31, 2016, to open an investigation into whether individuals associated with the Trump Campaign were coordinating with the Russian government in its interference activities.That fall, two federal agencies jointly announced that the Russian government “directed recent compromises of e-mails from US persons and institutions, including US political organizations,” and, “[t]hese thefts and disclosures are intended to interfere with the US election process.” After the election, in late December 2016, the United States imposed sanctions on Russia for having interfered in the election. By early 2017, several congressional committees were examining Russia’s interference in the election.Within the Executive Branch, these investigatory efforts ultimately led to the May 2017 appointment of Special Counsel Robert S. Mueller, III. The order appointing the Special Counsel authorized him to investigate “the Russian government’s efforts to interfere in the 2016 presidential election,” including any links or coordination between the Russian government and individuals associated with the Trump Campaign.As set forth in detail in this report, the Special Counsel’s investigation established that Russia interfered in the 2016 presidential election principally through two operations. First, a Russian entity carried out a social media campaign that favored presidential candidate Donald J. Trump and disparaged presidential candidate Hillary Clinton. Second, a Russian intelligence service conducted computer-intrusion operations against entities, employees, and volunteers working on the Clinton Campaign and then released stolen documents. The investigation also identified numerous links between the Russian government and the Trump Campaign. Although the investigation established that the Russian government perceived it would benefit from a Trump presidency and worked to secure that outcome, and that the Campaign expected it would benefitVol. 1, Page 1electorally from information stolen and released through Russian efforts, the investigation did not establish that members of the Trump Campaign conspired or coordinated with the Russian government in its election interference activities.* * *Below we describe the evidentiary considerations underpinning statements about the results of our investigation and the Special Counsel’s charging decisions, and we then provide an overview of the two volumes of our report.The report describes actions and events that the Special Counsel’s Office found to be supported by the evidence collected in our investigation. In some instances, the report points out the absence of evidence or conflicts in the evidence about a particular fact or event. In other instances, when substantial, credible evidence enabled the Office to reach a conclusion with confidence, the report states that the investigation established that certain actions or events occurred. A statement that the investigation did not establish particular facts does not mean there was no evidence of those facts.In evaluating whether evidence about collective action of multiple individuals constituted a crime, we applied the framework of conspiracy law, not the concept of “collusion.” In so doing, the Office recognized that the word “collud[e]” was used in communications with the Acting Attorney General confirming certain aspects of the investigation’s scope and that the term has frequently been invoked in public reporting about the investigation. But collusion is not a specific offense or theory of liability found in the United States Code, nor is it a term of art in federal criminal law. For those reasons, the Office’s focus in analyzing questions of joint criminal liability was on conspiracy as defined in federal law. In connection with that analysis, we addressed the factual question whether members of the Trump Campaign “coordinat[ed]” — a term that appears in the appointment order — with Russian election interference activities. Like collusion, “coordination” does not have a settled definition in federal criminal law. We understood coordination to require an agreement — tacit or express — between the Trump Campaign and the Russian government on election interference. That requires more than the two parties taking actions that were informed by or responsive to the other’s actions or interests.1 We applied the term coordination in that sense when stating in the report that the investigation did not establish that the Trump Campaign coordinated with the Russian government in its election interference activities.* * *The report on our investigation consists of two volumes:Volume I describes the factual results of the Special Counsel’s investigation of Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election and its interactions with the Trump Campaign. Section I describes the scope of the investigation. Sections II and III describe the principal ways Russia interfered in the 2016 presidential election. Section IV describes links between the RussianVol. 1, Page 2government and individuals associated with the Trump Campaign. Section V sets forth the Special Counsel’s charging decisions.Volume II addresses the President’s actions towards the FBI’s investigation into Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election and related matters, and his actions towards the Special Counsel’s investigation. Volume II separately states its framework and the considerations that guided that investigation.Vol. 1, Page 3The Internet Research Agency (IRA) carried out the earliest Russian interference operations identified by the investigation — a social media campaign designed to provoke and amplify political and social discord in the United States. The IRA was based in St. Petersburg, Russia, and received funding from Russian oligarch Yevgeniy Prigozhin and companies he controlled. Prigozhin is widely reported to have ties to Russian President Vladimir Putin, ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■In mid-2014, the IRA sent employees to the United States on an intelligence-gathering mission with instructions ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■The IRA later used social media accounts and interest groups to sow discord in the U.S. political system through what it termed “information warfare.” The campaign evolved from a generalized program designed in 2014 and 2015 to undermine the U.S. electoral system, to a targeted operation that by early 2016 favored candidate Trump and disparaged candidate Clinton, The IRA’s operation also included the purchase of political advertisements on social media in the names of U.S. persons and entities, as well as the staging of political rallies inside the United States. To organize those rallies, IRA employees posed as U.S. grassroots entities and persons and made contact with Trump supporters and Trump Campaign officials in the United States. The investigation did not identify evidence that any U.S. persons conspired or coordinated with the IRA. Section II of this report details the Office’s investigation of the Russian social media campaign.At the same time that the IRA operation began to focus on supporting candidate Trump in early 2016, the Russian government employed a second form of interference: cyber intrusions (hacking) and releases of hacked materials damaging to the Clinton Campaign. The Russian intelligence service known as the Main Intelligence Directorate of the General Staff of the Russian Army (GRU) carried out these operations.In March 2016, the GRU began hacking the email accounts of Clinton Campaign volunteers and employees, including campaign chairman John Podesta. In April 2016, the GRU hacked into the computer networks of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee (DCCC) and the Democratic National Committee (DNC). The GRU stole hundreds of thousands of documents from the compromised email accounts and networks. Around the time that the DNC announced in mid-June 2016 the Russian government’s role in hacking its network, the GRU began disseminating stolen materials through the fictitious online personas “DCLeaks” and “Guccifer 2.0.” The GRU later released additional materials through the organization WikiLeaks.Vol. 1, Page 4The presidential campaign of Donald J. Trump (“Trump Campaign” or “Campaign") showed interest in WikiLeaks’s releases of documents and welcomed their potential to damage candidate Clinton. Beginning in June 2016, ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ forecast to senior Campaign officials that WikiLeaks would release information damaging to candidate Clinton. WikiLeaks’s first release came in July 2016. Around the same time, candidate Trump announced that he hoped Russia would recover emails described as missing from a private server used by Clinton when she was Secretary of State (he later said that he was speaking sarcastically). ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ WikiLeaks began releasing Podesta’s stolen emails on October 7, 2016, less than one hour after a U.S. media outlet released video considered damaging to candidate Trump. Section III of this Report details the Office’s investigation into the Russian hacking operations, as well as other efforts by Trump Campaign supporters to obtain Clinton-related emails.The social media campaign and the GRU hacking operations coincided with a series of contacts between Trump Campaign officials and individuals with ties to the Russian government. The Office investigated whether those contacts reflected or resulted in the Campaign conspiring or coordinating with Russia in its election-interference activities. Although the investigation established that the Russian government perceived it would benefit from a Trump presidency and worked to secure that outcome, and that the Campaign expected it would benefit electorally from information stolen and released through Russian efforts, the investigation did not establish that members of the Trump Campaign conspired or coordinated with the Russian government in its election interference activities.The Russian contacts consisted of business connections, offers of assistance to the Campaign, invitations for candidate Trump and Putin to meet in person, invitations for Campaign officials and representatives of the Russian government to meet, and policy positions seeking improved U.S.-Russian relations. Section IV of this Report details the contacts between Russia and the Trump Campaign during the campaign and transition periods, the most salient of which are summarized below in chronological order.2015. Some of the earliest contacts were made in connection with a Trump Organization real-estate project in Russia known as Trump Tower Moscow. Candidate Trump signed a Letter of Intent for Trump Tower Moscow by November 2015, and in January 2016 Trump Organization executive Michael Cohen emailed and spoke about the project with the office of Russian government press secretary Dmitry Peskov. The Trump Organization pursued the project through at least June 2016, including by considering travel to Russia by Cohen and candidate Trump.Spring 2016. Campaign foreign policy advisor George Papadopoulos made early contact with Joseph Mifsud, a London-based professor who had connections to Russia and traveled to Moscow in April 2016. Immediately upon his return to London from that trip, Mifsud told Papadopoulos that the Russian government had “dirt” on Hillary Clinton in the form of thousandsVol. 1, Page 5of emails. One week later, in the first week of May 2016, Papadopoulos suggested to a representative of a foreign government that the Trump Campaign had received indications from the Russian government that it could assist the Campaign through the anonymous release of information damaging to candidate Clinton. Throughout that period of time and for several months thereafter, Papadopoulos worked with Mifsud and two Russian nationals to arrange a meeting between the Campaign and the Russian government. No meeting took place.Summer 2016. Russian outreach to the Trump Campaign continued into the summer of 2016, as candidate Trump was becoming the presumptive Republican nominee for President. On June 9, 2016, for example, a Russian lawyer met with senior Trump Campaign officials Donald Trump Jr., Jared Kushner, and campaign chairman Paul Manafort to deliver what the email proposing the meeting had described as “official documents and information that would incriminate Hillary.” The materials were offered to Trump Jr. as “part of Russia and its government’s support for Mr. Trump.” The written communications setting up the meeting showed that the Campaign anticipated receiving information from Russia that could assist candidate Trump’s electoral prospects, but the Russian lawyer’s presentation did not provide such information.Days after the June 9 meeting, on June 14, 2016, a cybersecurity firm and the DNC announced that Russian government hackers had infiltrated the DNC and obtained access to opposition research on candidate Trump, among other documents. In July 2016, Campaign foreign policy advisor Carter Page traveled in his personal capacity to Moscow and gave the keynote address at the New Economic School. Page had lived and worked in Russia between 2003 and 2007. After returning to the United States, Page became acquainted with at least two Russian intelligence officers, one of whom was later charged in 2015 with conspiracy to act as an unregistered agent of Russia. Page’s July 2016 trip to Moscow and his advocacy for pro-Russian foreign policy drew media attention. The Campaign then distanced itself from Page and, by late September 2016, removed him from the Campaign.July 2016 was also the month WikiLeaks first released emails stolen by the GRU from the DNC. On July 22, 2016, WikiLeaks posted thousands of internal DNC documents revealing information about the Clinton Campaign. Within days, there was public reporting that U.S. intelligence agencies had “high confidence” that the Russian government was behind the theft of emails and documents from the DNC. And within a week of the release, a foreign government informed the FBI about its May 2016 interaction with Papadopoulos and his statement that the Russian government could assist the Trump Campaign. On July 31, 2016, based on the foreign government reporting, the FBI opened an investigation into potential coordination between the Russian government and individuals associated with the Trump Campaign.Separately, on August 2, 2016, Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort met in New York City with his long-time business associate Konstantin Kilimnik, who the FBI assesses to have ties to Russian intelligence. Kilimnik requested the meeting to deliver in person a peace plan for Ukraine that Manafort acknowledged to the Special Counsel’s Office was a “backdoor” way for Russia to control part of eastern Ukraine; both men believed the plan would require candidate Trump’s assent to succeed (were he to be elected President)1. They also discussed the status of theVol. 1, Page 6Trump Campaign and Manafort’s strategy for winning Democratic votes in Midwestern states. Months before that meeting, Manafort had caused internal polling data to be shared with Kilimnik, and the sharing continued for some period of time after their August meeting.Fall 2016. On October 7, 2016, the media released video of candidate Trump speaking in graphic terms about women years earlier, which was considered damaging to his candidacy. Less than an hour later, WikiLeaks made its second release: thousands of John Podesta’s emails that had been stolen by the GRU in late March 2016. The FBI and other U.S. government institutions were at the time continuing their investigation of suspected Russian government efforts to interfere in the presidential election. That same day, October 7, the Department of Homeland Security and the Office of the Director of National Intelligence issued a joint public statement “that the Russian Government directed the recent compromises of e-mails from US persons and institutions, including from US political organizations.” Those “thefts” and the “disclosures” of the hacked materials through online platforms such as WikiLeaks, the statement continued, “are intended to interfere with the US election process.”Post-2016 Election. Immediately after the November 8 election, Russian government officials and prominent Russian businessmen began trying to make inroads into the new administration. The most senior levels of the Russian government encouraged these efforts. The Russian Embassy made contact hours after the election to congratulate the President-Elect and to arrange a call with President Putin. Several Russian businessmen picked up the effort from there.Kirill Dmitriev, the chief executive officer of Russia’s sovereign wealth fund, was among the Russians who tried to make contact with the incoming administration. In early December, a business associate steered Dmitriev to Erik Prince, a supporter of the Trump Campaign and an associate of senior Trump advisor Steve Bannon. Dmitriev and Prince later met face-to-face in January 2017 in the Seychelles and discussed U.S.-Russia relations. During the same period, another business associate introduced Dmitriev to a friend of Jared Kushner who had not served on the Campaign or the Transition Team. Dmitriev and Kushner’s friend collaborated on a short written reconciliation plan for the United States and Russia, which Dmitriev implied had been cleared through Putin. The friend gave that proposal to Kushner before the inauguration, and Kushner later gave copies to Bannon and incoming Secretary of State Rex Tillerson.On December 29, 2016, then-President Obama imposed sanctions on Russia for having interfered in the election. Incoming National Security Advisor Michael Flynn called Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak and asked Russia not to escalate the situation in response to the sanctions. The following day, Putin announced that Russia would not take retaliatory measures in response to the sanctions at that time. Hours later, President-Elect Trump tweeted, “Great move on delay (by V. Putin).” The next day, on December 31, 2016, Kislyak called Flynn and told him the request had been received at the highest levels and Russia had chosen not to retaliate as a result of Flynn’s request.* * *On January 6, 2017, members of the intelligence community briefed President-Elect Trump on a joint assessment — drafted and coordinated among the Central Intelligence Agency, FBI, andVol. 1, Page 7National Security Agency — that concluded with high confidence that Russia had intervened in the election through a variety of means to assist Trump’s candidacy and harm Clinton’s. A declassified version of the assessment was publicly released that same day.Between mid-January 2017 and early February 2017, three congressional committees — the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence (HPSCI), the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence (SSCI), and the Senate Judiciary Committee (SJC) — announced that they would conduct inquiries, or had already been conducting inquiries, into Russian interference in the election. Then-FBI Director James Comey later confirmed to Congress the existence of the FBI’s investigation into Russian interference that had begun before the election. On March 20, 2017, in open-session testimony before HPSCI, Comey stated:The investigation continued under then-Director Comey for the next seven weeks until May 9, 2017, when President Trump fired Comey as FBI Director — an action which is analyzed in Volume II of the report.On May 17, 2017, Acting Attorney General Rod Rosenstein appointed the Special Counsel and authorized him to conduct the investigation that Comey had confirmed in his congressional testimony, as well as matters arising directly from the investigation, and any other matters within the scope of 28 C.F.R. § 600.4(a), which generally covers efforts to interfere with or obstruct the investigation.President Trump reacted negatively to the Special Counsel’s appointment. He told advisors that it was the end of his presidency, sought to have Attorney General Jefferson (Jeff) Sessions unrecuse from the Russia investigation and to have the Special Counsel removed, and engaged in efforts to curtail the Special Counsel’s investigation and prevent the disclosure of evidence to it, including through public and private contacts with potential witnesses. Those and related actions are described and analyzed in Volume II of the report.* * *In reaching the charging decisions described in Volume I of the report, the Office determined whether the conduct it found amounted to a violation of federal criminal law chargeable under the Principles of Federal Prosecution. See Justice Manual § 9-27.000 et seq. (2018). The standard set forth in the Justice Manual is whether the conduct constitutes a crime; if So, whether admissible evidence would probably be sufficient to obtain and sustain a conviction;Vol. 1, Page 8and whether prosecution would serve a substantial federal interest that could not be adequately served by prosecution elsewhere or through non-criminal alternatives. See Justice Manual § 9-27.220.Section V of the report provides detailed explanations of the Office’s charging decisions, which contain three main components.First, the Office determined that Russia’s two principal interference operations in the 2016 U.S. presidential election — the social media campaign and the hacking-and-dumping operations — violated U.S. criminal law. Many of the individuals and entities involved in the social media campaign have been charged with participating in a conspiracy to defraud the United States by undermining through deceptive acts the work of federal agencies charged with regulating foreign influence in U.S. elections, as well as related counts of identity theft. See United States v. Internet Research Agency, et al., No. 18-cr-32 (D.D.C.). Separately, Russian intelligence officers who carried out the hacking into Democratic Party computers and the personal email accounts of individuals affiliated with the Clinton Campaign conspired to violate, among other federal laws, the federal computer-intrusion statute, and they have been so charged. See United States v. Netyksho, et al., No. 18-cr-215 (D.D.C.). ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Second, while the investigation identified numerous links between individuals with ties to the Russian government and individuals associated with the Trump Campaign, the evidence was not sufficient to support criminal charges. Among other things, the evidence was not sufficient to charge any Campaign official as an unregistered agent of the Russian government or other Russian principal. And our evidence about the June 9, 2016 meeting and WikiLeaks’s releases of hacked materials was not sufficient to charge a criminal campaign-finance violation.1 Further, the evidence was not sufficient to charge that any member of the Trump Campaign conspired with representatives of the Russian government to interfere in the 2016 election.Third, the investigation established that several individuals affiliated with the Trump Campaign lied to the Office, and to Congress, about their interactions with Russian-affiliated individuals and related matters. Those lies materially impaired the investigation of Russian election interference. The Office charged some of those lies as violations of the federal false-statements statute. Former National Security Advisor Michael Flynn pleaded guilty to lying about his interactions with Russian Ambassador Kislyak during the transition period. George Papadopoulos, a foreign policy advisor during the campaign period, pleaded guilty to lying to investigators about, inter alia, the nature and timing of his interactions with Joseph Mifsud, the professor who told Papadopoulos that the Russians had dirt on candidate Clinton in the form of thousands of emails. Former Trump Organization attorney Michael Cohen pleaded guilty to making false statements to Congress about the Trump Moscow project. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ And in February 2019, the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia found thatVol. 1, Page 9Manafort lied to the Office and the grand jury concerning his interactions and communications with Konstantin Kilimnik about Trump Campaign polling data and a peace plan for Ukraine.* * *The Office investigated several other events that have been publicly reported to involve potential Russia-related contacts. For example, the investigation established that interactions between Russian Ambassador Kislyak and Trump Campaign officials both at the candidate’s April 2016 foreign policy speech in Washington, D.C., and during the week of the Republican National Convention were brief, public, and non-substantive. And the investigation did not establish that one Campaign official’s efforts to dilute a portion of the Republican Party platform on providing assistance to Ukraine were undertaken at the behest of candidate Trump or Russia.1 The investigation also did not establish that a meeting between Kislyak and Sessions in September 2016 at Sessions’s Senate office included any more than a passing mention of the presidential campaign.The investigation did not always yield admissible information or testimony, or a complete picture of the activities undertaken by subjects of the investigation. Some individuals invoked their Fifth Amendment right against compelled self-incrimination and were not, in the Office’s judgment, appropriate candidates for grants of immunity. The Office limited its pursuit of other witnesses and information — such as information known to attorneys or individuals claiming to be members of the media — in light of internal Department of Justice policies. See, e.g., Justice Manual §§ 9-13.400, 13.410. Some of the information obtained via court process, moreover, was presumptively covered by legal privilege and was screened from investigators by a filter (or “taint”) team. Even when individuals testified or agreed to be interviewed, they sometimes provided information that was false or incomplete, leading to some of the false-statements charges described above. And the Office faced practical limits on its ability to access relevant evidence as well — numerous witnesses and subjects lived abroad, and documents were held outside the United States.Further, the Office learned that some of the individuals we interviewed or whose conduct we investigated — including some associated with the Trump Campaign-deleted relevant communications or communicated during the relevant period using applications that feature encryption or that do not provide for long-term retention of data or communications records. In such cases, the Office was not able to corroborate witness statements through comparison to contemporaneous communications or fully question witnesses about statements that appeared inconsistent with other known facts.Accordingly, while this report embodies factual and legal determinations that the Office believes to be accurate and complete to the greatest extent possible, given these identified gaps, the Office cannot rule out the possibility that the unavailable information would shed additional light on (or cast in a new light) the events described in the report.Vol. 1, Page 10On May 17, 2017, Deputy Attorney General Rod J. Rosenstein — then serving as Acting Attorney General for the Russia investigation following the recusal of former Attorney General Jeff Sessions on March 2, 2016 — appointed the Special Counsel “to investigate Russian interference with the 2016 presidential election and related matters.” Office of the Deputy Atty Gen., Order No. 3915-2017, Appointment of Special Counsel to Investigate Russian Interference with the 2016 Presidential Election and Related Matters, May 17, 2017) ("Appointment Order”). Relying on the authority vested” in the Acting Attorney General, “including 28 U.S.C. §§ 509, 510, and 515,” the Acting Attorney General ordered the appointment of a Special Counsel “in order to discharge [the Acting Attorney General’s] responsibility to provide supervision and management of the Department of Justice, and to ensure a full and thorough investigation of the Russian government’s efforts to interfere in the 2016 presidential election.” Appointment Order (introduction). “The Special Counsel,” the Order stated, “is authorized to conduct the investigation confirmed by then-FBI Director James B. Comey in testimony before the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence on March 20, 2017,” including:(i) any links and/or coordination between the Russian government and individuals associated with the campaign of President Donald Trump; and(ii) any matters that arose or may arise directly from the investigation; and(iii) any other matters within the scope of 28 C.F.R. § 600.4(a).Appointment Order ¶(b). Section 600.4 affords the Special Counsel “the authority to investigate and prosecute federal crimes committed in the course of, and with intent to interfere with, the Special Counsel’s investigation, such as perjury, obstruction of justice, destruction of evidence, and intimidation of witnesses.” 28 C.F.R. § 600.4(a). The authority to investigate “any matters that arose…directly from the investigation,” Appointment Order ¶(b)(ii), covers similar crimes that may have occurred during the course of the FBI’s confirmed investigation before the Special Counsel’s appointment. “If the Special Counsel believes it is necessary and appropriate,” the Order further provided, “the Special Counsel is authorized to prosecute federal crimes arising from the investigation of these matters.” Id. ¶(c). Finally, the Acting Attorney General made applicable “Sections 600.4 through 600.10 of Title 28 of the Code of Federal Regulations.” Id. ¶ (d).The Acting Attorney General further clarified the scope of the Special Counsel’s investigatory authority in two subsequent memoranda. A memorandum dated August 2, 2017, explained that the Appointment Order had been “worded categorically in order to permit its public release without confirming specific investigations involving specific individuals.” It then confirmed that the Special Counsel had been authorized since his appointment to investigate allegations that three Trump campaign officials — Carter Page, Paul Manafort, and George Papadopoulos"committed a crime or crimes by colluding with Russian government officials with respect to the Russian government’s efforts to interfere with the 2016 presidential election.” The memorandum also confirmed the Special Counsel’s authority to investigate certain other matters, including two additional sets of allegations involving Manafort (crimes arising from payments he received from the Ukrainian government and crimes arising from his receipt of loansVol. 1, Page 11from a bank whose CEO was then seeking a position in the Trump Administration); allegations that Papadopoulos committed a crime or crimes by acting as an unregistered agent of the Israeli government; and four sets of allegations involving Michael Flynn, the former National Security Advisor to President Trump.On October 20, 2017, the Acting Attorney General confirmed in a memorandum the Special Counsel’s investigative authority as to several individuals and entities. First, as part of a full and thorough investigation of the Russian government’s efforts to interfere in the 2016 presidential election,” the Special Counsel was authorized to investigate the pertinent activities of Michael Cohen, Richard Gates, ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■, Roger Stone, and ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■” “Confirmation of the authorization to investigate such individuals,” the memorandum stressed, “does not suggest that the Special Counsel has made a determination that any of them has committed a crime.” Second, with respect to Michael Cohen, the memorandum recognized the Special Counsel’s authority to investigate “leads relate[d] to Cohen’s establishment and use of Essential Consultants LLC to, inter alia, receive funds from Russian-backed entities.” Third, the memorandum memorialized the Special Counsel’s authority to investigate individuals and entities who were possibly engaged in “jointly undertaken activity” with existing subjects of the investigation, including Paul Manafort. Finally, the memorandum described an FBI investigation opened before the Special Counsel’s appointment into “allegations that [then-Attorney General Jeff Sessions] made false statements to the United States Senate[,]” and confirmed the Special Counsel’s authority to investigate that matter.The Special Counsel structured the investigation in view of his power and authority “to exercise all investigative and prosecutorial functions of any United States Attorney.” 28 C.F.R. § 600.6. Like a U.S. Attorney’s Office, the Special Counsel’s Office considered a range of classified and unclassified information available to the FBI in the course of the Office’s Russia investigation, and the Office structured that work around evidence for possible use in prosecutions of federal crimes (assuming that one or more crimes were identified that warranted prosecution). There was substantial evidence immediately available to the Special Counsel at the inception of the investigation in May 2017 because the FBI had, by that time, already investigated Russian election interference for nearly 10 months. The Special Counsel’s Office exercised its judgment regarding what to investigate and did not, for instance, investigate every public report of a contact between the Trump Campaign and Russian-affiliated individuals and entities.The Office has concluded its investigation into links and coordination between the Russian government and individuals associated with the Trump Campaign. Certain proceedings associated with the Office’s work remain ongoing. After consultation with the Office of the Deputy Attorney General, the Office has transferred responsibility for those remaining issues to other components of the Department of Justice and FBI. Appendix D lists those transfers.Two district courts confirmed the breadth of the Special Counsel’s authority to investigate Russia election interference and links and/or coordination with the Trump Campaign. See United States v. Manafort, 312 F. Supp. 3d 60, 79-83 (D.D.C. 2018); United States v. Manafort, 321 F. Supp. 3d 640, 650-655 (E.D. Va. 2018). In the course of conducting that investigation, the Office periodically identified evidence of potential criminal activity that was outside the scope of the Special Counsel’s authority established by the Acting Attorney General. After consultation withVol. 1, Page 12the Office of the Deputy Attorney General, the Office referred that evidence to appropriate law enforcement authorities, principally other components of the Department of Justice and to the FBI.1 Appendix D summarizes those referrals.* * *To carry out the investigation and prosecution of the matters assigned to him, the Special Counsel assembled a team that at its high point included 19 attorneys — five of whom joined the Office from private practice and 14 on detail or assigned from other Department of Justice components. These attorneys were assisted by a filter team of Department lawyers and FBI personnel who screened materials obtained via court process for privileged information before turning those materials over to investigators; a support staff of three paralegals on detail from the Department’s Antitrust Division; and an administrative staff of nine responsible for budget, finance, purchasing, human resources, records, facilities, security, information technology, and administrative support. The Special Counsel attorneys and support staff were co-located with and worked alongside approximately 40 FBI agents, intelligence analysts, forensic accountants, a paralegal, and professional staff assigned by the FBI to assist the Special Counsel’s investigation. Those “assigned” FBI employees remained under FBI supervision at all times; the matters on which they assisted were supervised by the Special Counsel.1During its investigation the Office issued more than 2,800 subpoenas under the auspices of a grand jury sitting in the District of Columbia; executed nearly 500 search-and-seizure warrants; obtained more than 230 orders for communications records under 18 U.S.C. § 2703(d); obtained almost 50 orders authorizing use of pen registers; made 13 requests to foreign governments pursuant to Mutual Legal Assistance Treaties; and interviewed approximately 500 witnesses, including almost 80 before a grand jury.* * *From its inception, the Office recognized that its investigation could identify foreign intelligence and counterintelligence information relevant to the FBI’s broader national security mission. FBI personnel who assisted the Office established procedures to identify and convey such information to the FBI. The FBI’s Counterintelligence Division met with the Office regularly for that purpose for most of the Office’s tenure. For more than the past year, the FBI also embedded personnel at the Office who did not work on the Special Counsel’s investigation, but whose purpose was to review the results of the investigation and to send — in writing — summaries of foreign intelligence and counterintelligence information to FBIHQ and FBI Field Offices. Those communications and other correspondence between the Office and the FBI contain information derived from the investigation, not all of which is contained in this Volume. This Volume is a summary. It contains, in the Office’s judgment, that information necessary to account for the Special Counsel’s prosecution and declination decisions and to describe the investigation’s main factual results.1 FBI personnel assigned to the Special Counsel’s Office were required to adhere to all applicable federal law and all Department and FBI regulations, guidelines, and policies. An FBI attorney worked on FBI-related matters for the Office, such as FBI compliance with all FBI policies and procedures, including the FBI’s Domestic Investigations and Operations Guide (DIOG). That FBI attorney worked under FBI legal supervision, not the Special Counsel’s supervision.Vol. 1, Page 13The first form of Russian election influence came principally from the Internet Research Agency, LLC (IRA), a Russian organization funded by Yevgeniy Viktorovich Prigozhin and companies he controlled, including Concord Management and Consulting LLC and Concord Catering (collectively “Concord”).2 The IRA conducted social media operations targeted at large U.S. audiences with the goal of sowing discord in the U.S. political system.3 These operations constituted “active measures” (активные мероприятия), a term that typically refers to operations conducted by Russian security services aimed at influencing the course of international affairs.4The IRA and its employees began operations targeting the United States as early as 2014. Using fictitious U.S. personas, IRA employees operated social media accounts and group pages designed to attract U.S. audiences. These groups and accounts, which addressed divisive U.S. political and social issues, falsely claimed to be controlled by U.S. activists. Over time, these social media accounts became a means to reach large U.S. audiences. IRA employees travelled to the United States in mid-2014 on an intelligence-gathering mission to obtain information and photographs for use in their social media posts.IRA employees posted derogatory information about a number of candidates in the 2016 U.S. presidential election. By early to mid-2016, IRA operations included supporting the Trump Campaign and disparaging candidate Hillary Clinton. The IRA made various expenditures to carry out those activities, including buying political advertisements on social media in the names of U.S. persons and entities. Some IRA employees, posing as U.S. persons and without revealing their Russian association, communicated electronically with individuals associated with the Trump Campaign and with other political activists to seek to coordinate political activities, including the staging of political rallies.5 The investigation did not identify evidence that any U.S. persons knowingly or intentionally coordinated with the IRA’s interference operation.By the end of the 2016 U.S. election, the IRA had the ability to reach millions of U.S. persons through their social media accounts. Multiple IRA-controlled Facebook groups and2 The Office is aware of reports that other Russian entities engaged in similar active measures operations targeting the United States. Some evidence collected by the Office corroborates those reports, and the Office has shared that evidence with other offices in the Department of Justice and FBI.3 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ see also SM-2230634, serial 44 (analysis). The FBI case number cited here, and other FBI case numbers identified in the report, should be treated as law enforcement sensitive given the context. The report contains additional law enforcement sensitive information.4 As discussed in Part V below, the active measures investigation has resulted in criminal charges against 13 individual Russian nationals and three Russian entities, principally for conspiracy to defraud the United States, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 371. See Volume 1, Section V.A, infra; Indictment, United States v. Internet Research Agency, et al., 1:18-cr-32 (D.D.C. Feb. 16, 2018), Doc. 1 (“Internet Research Agency Indictment”).5 Internet Research Agency Indictment 1 52, 54, 55(a), 56, 74; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Vol. 1, Page 14Instagram accounts had hundreds of thousands of U.S. participants. IRA-controlled Twitter accounts separately had tens of thousands of followers, including multiple U.S. political figures who retweeted IRA-created content. In November 2017, a Facebook representative testified that Facebook had identified 470 IRA-controlled Facebook accounts that collectively made 80,000 posts between January 2015 and August 2017. Facebook estimated the IRA reached as many as 126 million persons through its Facebook accounts.6 In January 2018, Twitter announced that it had identified 3,814 IRA-controlled Twitter accounts and notified approximately 1.4 million people Twitter believed may have been in contact with an IRA-controlled account.7■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■8 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■10The organization quickly grew. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■11 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■12The growth of the organization also led to a more detailed organizational structure. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■6 Social Media Influence in the 2016 U.S. Election, Hearing Before the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, 115th Cong. 13 (11/1/17) (testimony of Colin Stretch, General Counsel of Facebook) ("We estimate that roughly 29 million people were served content in their News Feeds directly from the IRA’s 80,000 posts over the two years. Posts from these Pages were also shared, liked, and followed by people on Facebook, and, as a result, three times more people may have been exposed to a story that originated from the Russian operation. Our best estimate is that approximately 126 million people may have been served content from a Page associated with the IRA at some point during the two-year period."). The Facebook representative also testified that Facebook had identified 170 Instagram accounts that posted approximately 120,000 pieces of content during that time. Facebook did not offer an estimate of the audience reached via Instagram.7 Twitter, Update on Twitter’s Review of the 2016 US Election (Jan. 31, 2018).8 See SM-2230634, serial 92.9 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■10 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■11 See SM-2230634, serial 86 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■12 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Vol. 1, Page 15■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■13Two individuals headed the IRA’s management: its general director, Mikhail Bystrov, and its executive director, Mikhail Burchik. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■14 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■15As early as the spring of 2014, the IRA began to hide its funding and activities. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■16The IRA’s U.S. operations are part of a larger set of interlocking operations known as “Project Lakhta.” ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■17 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■18Until at least February 2018, Yevgeniy Viktorovich Prigozhin and two Concord companies funded the IRA. Prigozhin is a wealthy Russian businessman who served as the head of Concord.13 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■14 See, e.g., SM-2230634, serials 9, 113 &amp; 180 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■15 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■16 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ See SM-2230634, serials 131 &amp; 204.17 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■18 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Vol. 1, Page 16■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ Prigozhin was sanctioned by the U.S. Treasury Department in December 201619 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■20 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■21 Numerous media sources have reported on Prigozhin’s ties to Putin, and the two have appeared together in public photographs.22■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■23 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■24 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■25 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■19 U.S. Treasury Department, “Treasury Sanctions Individuals and Entities in Connection with Russia’s Occupation of Crimea and the Conflict in Ukraine” (Dec. 20, 2016).20 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■21 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■22 See, e.g., Neil MacFarquhar, Yevgeny Prigozhin, Russian Oligarch Indicted by U.S., Is Known as “Putin’s Cook”, New York Times (Feb. 16, 2018).23 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■24 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■25 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ see also SM-2230634, serial 113 ■■■■■■■■■■■■Vol. 1, Page 17■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■26 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■28 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■26 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■27 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■28 The term “troll” refers to internet users—in this context, paid operatives—who post inflammatory or otherwise disruptive content on social media or other websites.Vol. 1, Page 18IRA employees were aware that Prigozhin was involved in the IRA’s U.S. operations, ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■29 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■30 In May 2016, IRA employees, claiming to be U.S. social activists and administrators of Facebook groups, recruited U.S. persons to hold signs (including one in front of the White House) that read “Happy 55th Birthday Dear Boss,” as an homage to Prigozhin (whose 55th birthday was on June 1, 2016).31 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■32■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■The IRA’s U.S. operations sought to influence public opinion through online media and forums. By the spring of 2014, the IRA began to consolidate U.S. operations within a single general department, known internally as the “Translator” (переводчик) department. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ IRA subdivided the Translator Department into different responsibilities, ranging from operations on different social media platforms to analytics to29 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ See SM-2230634, serials 131 &amp; 204.30 See SM-2230634, serial 156.31 Internet Research Agency Indictment | 12(b); see also 5/26/16 Facebook Messages, ID 1479936895656747 (United Muslims of America) &amp; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■32 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ see also SM-2230634, serial 189. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Vol. 1, Page 19graphics and IT.■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■33 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■H34■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■33 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ See SM-2230634, serial 205.34 See SM-2230634, serial 204 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Vol. 1, Page 20■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■35 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■36■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■37IRA employees also traveled to the United States on intelligence-gathering missions. In June 2014, four IRA employees applied to the U.S. Department of State to enter the United States, while lying about the purpose of their trip and claiming to be four friends who had met at a party.38 Ultimately, two IRA employees — Anna Bogacheva and Aleksandra Krylova — received visas and entered the United States on June 4, 2014.Prior to traveling, Krylova and Bogacheva compiled itineraries and instructions for the trip. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■39 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■35 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■36 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■37 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■38 See SM-2230634, serials 150 &amp; 172 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■39 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Vol. 1, Page 21■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■40 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■41Dozens of IRA employees were responsible for operating accounts and personas on different U.S. social media platforms. The IRA referred to employees assigned to operate the social media accounts as “specialists.”42 Starting as early as 2014, the IRA’s U.S. operations included social media specialists focusing on Facebook, YouTube, and Twitter.43 The IRA later added specialists who operated on Tumblr and Instagram accounts.44Initially, the IRA created social media accounts that pretended to be the personal accounts of U.S. persons.45 By early 2015, the IRA began to create larger social media groups or public social media pages that claimed (falsely) to be affiliated with U.S. political and grassroots organizations. In certain cases, the IRA created accounts that mimicked real U.S. organizations. For example, one IRA-controlled Twitter account, @TEN_GOP, purported to be connected to the Tennessee Republican Party.46 More commonly, the IRA created accounts in the names of fictitious U.S. organizations and grassroots groups and used these accounts to pose as anti-immigration groups, Tea Party activists, Black Lives Matter protestors, and other U.S. social and political activists.The IRA closely monitored the activity of its social media accounts. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■40 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■41 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■42 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■43 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■44 See, e.g., SM-2230634, serial 179 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■45 See, e.g., Facebook ID 100011390466802 (Alex Anderson); Facebook ID 100009626173204 (Andrea Hansen); Facebook ID 100009728618427 (Gary Williams); Facebook ID 100013640043337 (Lakisha Richardson).46 The account claimed to be the “Unofficial Twitter of Tennessee Republicans” and made posts that appeared to be endorsements of the state political party. See, e.g., @TEN_GOP, 4/3/16 Tweet (“Tennessee GOP backs @realDonald Trump period #makeAmericagreatagain #tngop #tennessee #gop”).Vol. 1, Page 22■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■47 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■48■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■By February 2016, internal IRA documents referred to support for the Trump Campaign and opposition to candidate Clinton.49 For example, ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ directions to IRA operators ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ “Main idea: Use any opportunity to criticize Hillary [Clinton] and the rest (except Sanders and Trump - we support them)."50 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■The focus on the U.S. presidential campaign continued throughout 2016. In ■■■■■■■■■ 2016 internal ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ reviewing the IRA-controlled Facebook group “Secured Borders,” the47 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■48 See, e.g., SM-2230634 serial 131 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■49 The IRA posted content about the Clinton candidacy before Clinton officially announced her presidential campaign. IRA-controlled social media accounts criticized Clinton’s record as Secretary of State and promoted various critiques of her candidacy. The IRA also used other techniques. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ See SM-2230634, serial 70.50 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Vol. 1, Page 23author criticized the “lower number of posts dedicated to criticizing Hillary Clinton” and reminded the Facebook specialist “it is imperative to intensify criticizing Hillary Clinton.”51IRA employees also acknowledged that their work focused on influencing the U.S. presidential election. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■.52Many IRA operations used Facebook accounts created and operated by its specialists. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■53■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■54 IRA Facebook groups active during the 2016 campaign covered a range of political issues and included purported conservative51 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■52 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■53 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■54 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Vol. 1, Page 24groups (with names such as “Being Patriotic,” “Stop All Immigrants,” “Secured Borders,” and “Tea Party News”), purported Black social justice groups (“Black Matters,” “Blacktivist,” and “Don’t Shoot Us”), LGBTQ groups (“LGBT United”), and religious groups (“United Muslims of America”). Throughout 2016, IRA accounts published an increasing number of materials supporting the Trump Campaign and opposing the Clinton Campaign. For example, on May 31, 2016, the operational account “Matt Skiber” began to privately message dozens of pro-Trump Facebook groups asking them to help plan a “pro-Trump rally near Trump Tower."55To reach larger U.S. audiences, the IRA purchased advertisements from Facebook that promoted the IRA groups on the newsfeeds of U.S. audience members. According to Facebook, the IRA purchased over 3,500 advertisements, and the expenditures totaled approximately $100,000.56During the U.S. presidential campaign, many IRA-purchased advertisements explicitly supported or opposed a presidential candidate or promoted U.S. rallies organized by the IRA (discussed below). As early as March 2016, the IRA purchased advertisements that overtly opposed the Clinton Campaign. For example, on March 18, 2016, the IRA purchased an advertisement depicting candidate Clinton and a caption that read in part, “If one day God lets this liar enter the White House as a president — that day would be a real national tragedy.57 Similarly, on April 6, 2016, the IRA purchased advertisements for its account “Black Matters.” calling for a “flashmob” of U.S. persons to “take a photo with #Hillary ClintonForPrison2016 or #nohillary2016."58 IRA-purchased advertisements featuring Clinton were, with very few exceptions, negative.59IRA-purchased advertisements referencing candidate Trump largely supported his campaign. The first known IRA advertisement explicitly endorsing the Trump Campaign was purchased on April 19, 2016. The IRA bought an advertisement for its Instagram account “Tea Party News” asking U.S. persons to help them “make a patriotic team of young Trump supporters” by uploading photos with the hashtag “#KIDS4TRUMP.”60 In subsequent months, the IRA purchased dozens of advertisements supporting the Trump Campaign, predominantly through the Facebook groups “Being Patriotic,” “Stop All Invaders,” and “Secured Borders.”55 5/31/16 Facebook Message, ID 100009922908461 (Matt Skiber) to ID ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ 5/31/16 Facebook Message, ID 100009922908461 (Matt Skiber) to ID ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■56 Social Media Influence in the 2016 U.S. Election, Hearing Before the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, 115th Cong. 13 (11/1/17) (testimony of Colin Stretch, General Counsel of Facebook).57 3/18/16 Facebook  ID 6045505152575.58 4/6/16 Facebook  ID 6043740225319.59 See SM-2230634, serial 213 (documenting politically-oriented advertisements from the larger set provided by Facebook).60 4/19/16 Facebook  ID 6045151094235.Vol. 1, Page 25Collectively, the IRA’s social media accounts reached tens of millions of U.S. persons. Individual IRA social media accounts attracted hundreds of thousands of followers. For example, at the time they were deactivated by Facebook in mid-2017, the IRA’s “United Muslims of America” Facebook group had over 300,000 followers, the “Don’t Shoot Us” Facebook group had over 250,000 followers, the “Being Patriotic” Facebook group had over 200,000 followers, and the “Secured Borders” Facebook group had over 130,000 followers.61 According to Facebook, in total the IRA-controlled accounts made over 80,000 posts before their deactivation in August 2017, and these posts reached at least 29 million U.S persons and “may have reached an estimated 126 million people.62A number of IRA employees assigned to the Translator Department served as Twitter specialists. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■63The IRA’s Twitter operations involved two strategies. First, IRA specialists operated certain Twitter accounts to create individual U.S. personas, ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■64 Separately, the IRA operated a network of automated Twitter accounts (commonly referred to as a bot network) that enabled the IRA to amplify existing content on Twitter.■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■65 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■61 See Facebook ID 1479936895656747 (United Muslims of America); Facebook ID 1157233400960126 (Don’t Shoot); Facebook ID 1601685693432389 (Being Patriotic); Facebook ID 757183957716200 (Secured Borders). ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■62 Social Media Influence in the 2016 U.S. Election, Hearing Before the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, 115th Cong. 13 (11/1/17) (testimony of Colin Stretch, General Counsel of Facebook).63 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■64 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■65 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Vol. 1, Page 26■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■66 The IRA operated individualized Twitter accounts similar to the operation of its Facebook accounts, by continuously posting original content to the accounts while also communicating with U.S. Twitter users directly (through public tweeting or Twitter’s private messaging). The IRA used many of these accounts to attempt to influence U.S. audiences on the election. Individualized accounts used to influence the U.S. presidential election included @TEN_GOP (described above); @jenn_abrams (claiming to be a Virginian Trump supporter with 70,000 followers); @Pamela_Moore13 (claiming to be a Texan Trump supporter with 70,000 followers); and @America_1st_ (an anti-immigration persona with 24,000 followers).67 In May 2016, the IRA created the Twitter account @march_for_trump, which promoted IRA-organized rallies in support of the Trump Campaign (described below).68■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■69Using these accounts and others, the IRA provoked reactions from users and the media. Multiple IRA-posted tweets gained popularity.70 U.S. media outlets also quoted tweets from IRA-controlled accounts and attributed them to the reactions of real U.S. persons.71 Similarly, numerous high-66 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■67 Other individualized accounts included @MissouriNewsUS (an account with 3,800 followers that posted pro-Sanders and anti-Clinton material).68 See @march_for_trump, 5/30/16 Tweet (first post from account).69 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■70 For example, one IRA account tweeted, “To those people, who hate the Confederate flag. Did you know that the flag and the war wasn’t about slavery, it was all about money.” The tweet received over 40,000 responses. @Jenn_Abrams 4/24/17 (2:37 p.m.) Tweet.71 Josephine Lukito &amp; Chris Wells, Most Major Outlets Have Used Russian Tweets as Sources for Partisan Opinion: Study, Columbia Journalism Review (Mar. 8, 2018); see also Twitter Steps Up to Explain #NewYorkValues to Ted Cruz, Washington Post (Jan. 15, 2016) (citing IRA tweet); People Are Slamming the CIA for Claiming Russia Tried to Help Donald Trump, U.S. News &amp; World Report (Dec. 12, 2016).Vol. 1, Page 27profile U.S. persons, including former Ambassador Michael McFaul,72 Roger Stone,73 Sean Hannity,74 and Michael Flynn Jr.,75 retweeted or responded to tweets posted to these IRA-controlled accounts. Multiple individuals affiliated with the Trump Campaign also promoted IRA tweets (discussed below).■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■76■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■77■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■78In January 2018, Twitter publicly identified 3,814 Twitter accounts associated with the IRA.79 According to Twitter, in the ten weeks before the 2016 U.S. presidential election, these accounts posted approximately 175,993 tweets, approximately 8.4% of which were election-72 @McFaul 4/30/16 Tweet (responding to tweet by @Jenn_Abrams).73 @RogerJStoneJr 5/30/16 Tweet (retweeting @Pamela_Moore 13); @RogerJStoneJr 4/26/16 Tweet (same).74 @seanhannity 6/21/17 Tweet (retweeting @Pamela_Moore13).75 @mflynn JR 6/22/17 Tweet (“RT @Jenn Abrams: This is what happens when you add the voice over of an old documentary about mental illness onto video of SJWs...").76 A botnet refers to a network of private computers or accounts controlled as a group to send specific automated messages. On the Twitter network, botnets can be used to promote and republish (“retweet”) specific tweets or hashtags in order for them to gain larger audiences.77 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■78 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■79 Eli Rosenberg, Twitter to Tell 677,000 Users they Were Had by the Russians. Some Signs Show the Problem Continues, Washington Post (Jan. 19, 2019).Vol. 1, Page 28related.80 Twitter also announced that it had notified approximately 1.4 million people who Twitter believed may have been in contact with an IRA-controlled account.81The IRA organized and promoted political rallies inside the United States while posing as U.S. grassroots activists. First, the IRA used one of its preexisting social media personas (Facebook groups and Twitter accounts, for example) to announce and promote the event. The IRA then sent a large number of direct messages to followers of its social media account asking them to attend the event. From those who responded with interest in attending, the IRA then sought a U.S. person to serve as the event’s coordinator. In most cases, the IRA account operator would tell the U.S. person that they personally could not attend the event due to some preexisting conflict or because they were somewhere else in the United States.82 The IRA then further promoted the event by contacting U.S. media about the event and directing them to speak with the coordinator.83 After the event, the IRA posted videos and photographs of the event to the IRA’s social media accounts.84The Office identified dozens of U.S. rallies organized by the IRA. The earliest evidence of a rally was a “confederate rally” in November 2015.85 The IRA continued to organize rallies even after the 2016 U.S. presidential election. The attendance at rallies varied. Some rallies appear to have drawn few (if any) participants, while others drew hundreds. The reach and success of these rallies was closely monitored ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■80 Twitter, “Update on Twitter’s Review of the 2016 US Election” (updated Jan. 31, 2018). Twitter also reported identifying 50,258 automated accounts connected to the Russian government, which tweeted more than a million times in the ten weeks before the election.81 Twitter, “Update on Twitter’s Review of the 2016 US Election” (updated Jan. 31, 2018).82 8/20/16 Facebook Message, ID 100009922908461 (Matt Skiber) to ID ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■83 See, e.g., 7/21/16 Email, joshmilton024@gmail.com to ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■; 7/21/16 Email, joshmilton024@gmail.com to ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■84 @march_for_trump 6/25/16 Tweet (posting photos from rally outside Trump Tower).85 Instagram ID 2228012168 (Stand For Freedom) 11/3/15 Post (“Good evening buds! Well I am planning to organize a confederate rally [...] in Houston on the 14 of November and I want more people to attend.").Vol. 1, Page 29■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Vol. 1, Page 30IRA Poster for Pennsylvania Rallies organized by the IRAFrom June 2016 until the end of the presidential campaign, almost all of the U.S. rallies organized by the IRA focused on the U.S. election, often promoting the Trump Campaign and opposing the Clinton Campaign. Pro-Trump rallies included three in New York; a series of pro-Trump rallies in Florida in August 2016; and a series of pro-Trump rallies in October 2016 in Pennsylvania. The Florida rallies drew the attention of the Trump Campaign, which posted about the Miami rally on candidate Trump’s Facebook account (as discussed below).86Many of the same IRA employees who oversaw the IRA’S social media accounts also conducted the day-to-day recruiting for political rallies inside the United States. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■87As early as 2014, the IRA instructed its employees to target U.S. persons who could be used to advance its operational goals. Initially, recruitment focused on U.S. persons who could amplify the content posted by the IRA. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■88IRA employees frequently used ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ Twitter, Facebook, and Instagram to contact and recruit U.S. persons who followed the group. The IRA recruited U.S. persons from across the political spectrum. For example, the IRA targeted the family of ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ and a number of black social justice activists86 The pro-Trump rallies were organized through multiple Facebook, Twitter, and email accounts. See, e.g., Facebook ID 100009922908461 (Matt Skiber); Facebook ID 1601685693432389 (Being Patriotic); Twitter Account @march_for_trump; beingpatriotic@gmail.com. (Rallies were organized in New York on June 25, 2016; Florida on August 20, 2016; and Pennsylvania on October 2, 2016.)87 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■88 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Vol. 1, Page 31while posing as a grassroots group called “Black Matters US."89 In February 2017, the persona “Black Fist” (purporting to want to teach African-Americans to protect themselves when contacted by law enforcement) hired a self-defense instructor in New York to offer classes sponsored by Black Fist. The IRA also recruited moderators of conservative social media groups to promote IRA-generated content,90 as well as recruited individuals to perform political acts (such as walking around New York City dressed up as Santa Claus with a Trump mask).91■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■92 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■93 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■94■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ as the IRA’s online audience became larger, the IRA tracked U.S. persons with whom they communicated and had successfully tasked (with tasks ranging from organizing rallies to taking pictures with certain political messages). ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■9589 3/11/16 Facebook  ID 6045078289928, 5/6/16 Facebook  ID 6051652423528, 10/26/16 Facebook  ID 6055238604687; 10/27/16 Facebook Message, ID ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ &amp; ID 100011698576461 (Taylor Brooks).90 8/19/16 Facebook Message, ID 100009922908461 (Matt Skiber) to ID ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■91 12/8/16 Email, robot@craigslist.org to beingpatriotic@gmail.com (confirming Craigslist advertisement).92 8/18-19/16 Twitter DMs, @march_for_trump &amp; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■93 See, e.g., 11/11-27/16 Facebook Messages, ID 100011698576461 (Taylor Brooks) &amp; ID ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ (arranging to pay for plane tickets and for a bull horn).94 See, e.g., 9/10/16 Facebook Message, ID 100009922908461 (Matt Skiber) &amp; ID ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ (discussing payment for rally supplies); 8/18/16 Twitter DM, @march_for_trump to ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ (discussing payment for construction materials).95 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Vol. 1, Page 32■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■The investigation identified two different forms of connections between the IRA and members of the Trump Campaign. (The investigation identified no similar connections between the IRA and the Clinton Campaign.) First, on multiple occasions, members and surrogates of the Trump Campaign promoted — typically by linking, retweeting, or similar methods of reposting — pro-Trump or anti-Clinton content published by the IRA through IRA-controlled social media accounts. Additionally, in a few instances, IRA employees represented themselves as U.S. persons to communicate with members of the Trump Campaign in an effort to seek assistance and coordination on IRA-organized political rallies inside the United States.Among the U.S. “leaders of public opinion” targeted by the IRA were various members and surrogates of the Trump Campaign. In total, Trump Campaign affiliates promoted dozens of tweets, posts, and other political content created by the IRA.* Posts from the IRA-controlled Twitter account @TEN_GOP were cited or retweeted by multiple Trump Campaign officials and surrogates, including Donald J. Trump Jr.,96 Eric96 See, e.g., @DonaldJTrumpJr 10/26/16 Tweet ("RT @TEN_GOP: BREAKING Thousands of names changed on voter rolls in Indiana. Police investigating #VoterFraud. #DrainTheSwamp."); @DonaldJTrumpJr 11/2/16 Tweet (“RT @TEN_GOP: BREAKING: #VoterFraud by counting tens of thousands of ineligible mail in Hillary votes being reported in Broward County, Florida."); @DonaldJTrumpJr 11/8/16 Tweet (“RT @TEN_GOP: This vet passed away last month before he could vote for Trump. Here he is in his #MAGA hat. #voted #ElectionDay."). Trump Jr. retweeted additional @TEN_GOP content subsequent to the election.Vol. 1, Page 33Trump, 97 Kellyanne Conway,98 Brad Parscale,99 and Michael T. Flynn.100 These posts included allegations of voter fraud,101 as well as allegations that Secretary Clinton had mishandled classified information.102* A November 7, 2016 post from the IRA-controlled Twitter account @Pamela_Moorel3 was retweeted by Donald J. Trump Jr.103* On September 19, 2017, President Trump’s personal account @realDonaldTrump responded to a tweet from the IRA-controlled account @10_gop (the backup account of @TEN_GOP, which had already been deactivated by Twitter). The tweet read: “We love you, Mr. President!"104IRA employees monitored the reaction of the Trump Campaign and, later, Trump Administration officials to their tweets. For example, on August 23, 2016, the IRA-controlled persona “Matt Skiber” Facebook account sent a message to a U.S. Tea Party activist, writing that “Mr. Trump posted about our event in Miami! This is great!"105 The IRA employee included a screenshot of candidate Trump’s Facebook account, which included a post about the August 20, 2016 political rallies organized by the IRA.97 @Eric Trump 10/20/16 Tweet (“RT @TEN_GOP: BREAKING Hillary shuts down press conference when asked about DNC Operatives corruption &amp; #VoterFraud #debatenight #TrumpB”).98 @KellyannePolls 11/6/16 Tweet (“RT @TEN_GOP: Mother of jailed sailor: ‘Hold Hillary to same standards as my son on Classified info’ #hillarysemail #WeinerGate.").99 @parscale 10/15/16 Tweet (“Thousands of deplorables chanting to the media: ‘Tell The Truth!’ RT if you are also done w/ biased Media! #Friday Feeling").100 @GenFlynn 11/7/16 (retweeting @TEN_GOP post that included in part “@realDonaldTrump &amp; @mike_pence will be our next POTUS &amp; VPOTUS.").101@TEN_GOP 10/11/16 Tweet ("North Carolina finds 2,214 voters over the age of 110!!”).102 @TEN_GOP 11/6/16 Tweet ("Mother of jailed sailor: ‘Hold Hillary to same standards as my son on classified info #hillaryemail #WeinerGate."’).103 @DonaldJTrumpJr 11/7/16 Tweet ("RT @Pamela_Moore13: Detroit residents speak out against the failed policies of Obama, Hillary &amp; democrats ....").104 @realDonaldTrump 9/19/17 (7:33 p.m.) Tweet (“THANK YOU for your support Miami! My team just shared photos from your TRUMP SIGN WAVING DAY, yesterday! I love you - and there is no question - TOGETHER, WE WILL MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN!").1058/23/16 Facebook Message, ID 100009922908461 (Matt Skiber) to ID ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Vol. 1, Page 34■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■106Starting in June 2016, the IRA contacted different U.S. persons affiliated with the Trump Campaign in an effort to coordinate pro-Trump IRA-organized rallies inside the United States. In all cases, the IRA contacted the Campaign while claiming to be U.S. political activists working on behalf of a conservative grassroots organization. The IRA’s contacts included requests for signs and other materials to use at rallies,107 as well as requests to promote the rallies and help coordinate logistics.108 While certain campaign volunteers agreed to provide the requested support (for example, agreeing to set aside a number of signs), the investigation has not identified evidence that any Trump Campaign official understood the requests were coming from foreign nationals.* * *In sum, the investigation established that Russia interfered in the 2016 presidential election through the “active measures” social media campaign carried out by the IRA, an organization funded by Prigozhin and companies that he controlled. As explained further in Volume I, Section V.A, infra, the Office concluded (and a grand jury has alleged) that Prigozhin, his companies, and IRA employees violated U.S. law through these operations, principally by undermining through deceptive acts the work of federal agencies charged with regulating foreign influence in U.S. elections.106 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■107 See, e.g., 8/16/16 Email, joshmilton024@gmail.com to ■■■■■■■■■■■■ @donaldtrump.com (asking for Trump/Pence signs for Florida rally); 8/18/16 Email, joshmilton024@gmail.com to ■■■■■■■■■■■■ @donaldtrump.com (asking for Trump/Pence signs for Florida rally); 8/12/16 Email, joshmilton024@gmail.com to ■■■■■■■■■■■■ @donaldtrump.com (asking for “contact phone numbers for Trump Campaign affiliates” in various Florida cities and signs).108 8/15/16 Email, ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ to joshmilton024@gmail.com (asking to add to locations to the “Florida Goes Trump,” list); 8/16/16 Email, ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ to joshmilton024@gmail.com (volunteering to send an email blast to followers).Vol. 1, Page 35Beginning in March 2016, units of the Russian Federation’s Main Intelligence Directorate of the General Staff (GRU) hacked the computers and email accounts of organizations, employees, and volunteers supporting the Clinton Campaign, including the email account of campaign chairman John Podesta. Starting in April 2016, the GRU hacked into the computer networks of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee (DCCC) and the Democratic National Committee (DNC). The GRU targeted hundreds of email accounts used by Clinton Campaign employees, advisors, and volunteers. In total, the GRU stole hundreds of thousands of documents from the compromised email accounts and networks.109 The GRU later released stolen Clinton Campaign and DNC documents through online personas, “DCLeaks” and “Guccifer 2.0,” and later through the organization WikiLeaks. The release of the documents was designed and timed to interfere with the 2016 U.S. presidential election and undermine the Clinton Campaign.The Trump Campaign showed interest in the WikiLeaks releases and, in the summer and fall of 2016, ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ After ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ WikiLeaks’s first Clinton-related release ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■, the Trump Campaign stayed in contact ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ about WikiLeaks’s activities. The investigation was unable to resolve ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ WikiLeaks’s release of the stolen Podesta emails on October 7, 2016, the same day a video from years earlier was published of Trump using graphic language about women.Two military units of the GRU carried out the computer intrusions into the Clinton Campaign, DNC, and DCCC: Military Units 26165 and 74455.110 Military Unit 26165 is a GRU cyber unit dedicated to targeting military, political, governmental, and non-governmental organizations outside of Russia, including in the United States.111 The unit was sub-divided into departments with different specialties. One department, for example, developed specialized malicious software ("malware"), while another department conducted large-scale spearphishing campaigns.112 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ a bitcoin mining operation to109 As discussed in Section V below, our Office charged 12 GRU officers for crimes arising from the hacking of these computers, principally with conspiring to commit computer intrusions, in violation of 18 U.S.C. §§ 1030 and 371. See Volume 1, Section V.B, infra; Indictment, United States v. Netyksho, No. 1:18-cr-215 (D.D.C. July 13, 2018), Doc. 1 ("Netyksho Indictment”).110 Netyksho Indictment ¶.111 Separate from this Office’s indictment of GRU officers, in October 2018 a grand jury sitting in the Western District of Pennsylvania returned an indictment charging certain members of Unit 26165 with hacking the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency, the World Anti-Doping Agency, and other international sport associations. United States v. Aleksei Sergeyevich Morenets, No. 18-263 (W.D. Pa.).112 A spearphishing email is designed to appear as though it originates from a trusted source, and solicits information to enable the sender to gain access to an account or network, or causes the recipient to download malware that enables the sender to gain access to an account or network. Netyksho Indictment ¶ 10.Vol. 1, Page 36secure bitcoins used to purchase computer infrastructure used in hacking operations.113Military Unit 74455 is a related GRU unit with multiple departments that engaged in cyber operations. Unit 74455 assisted in the release of documents stolen by Unit 26165, the promotion of those releases, and the publication of anti-Clinton content on social media accounts operated by the GRU. Officers from Unit 74455 separately hacked computers belonging to state boards of elections, secretaries of state, and U.S. companies that supplied software and other technology related to the administration of U.S. elections.114Beginning in mid-March 2016, Unit 26165 had primary responsibility for hacking the DCCC and DNC, as well as email accounts of individuals affiliated with the Clinton Campaign.115* Unit 26165 used ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ to learn about ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ different Democratic websites, including democrats.org, hillaryclinton.com, dnc.org, and dccc.org. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ began before the GRU had obtained any credentials or gained access to these networks, indicating that the later DCCC and DNC intrusions were not crimes of opportunity but rather the result of targeting.116* GRU officers also sent hundreds of spearphishing emails to the work and personal email accounts of Clinton Campaign employees and volunteers. Between March 10, 2016 and March 15, 2016, Unit 26165 appears to have sent approximately 90 spearphishing emails to email accounts at hillaryclinton.com. Starting on March 15, 2016, the GRU began targeting Google email accounts used by Clinton Campaign employees, along with a smaller number of dnc.org email accounts.117The GRU spearphishing operation enabled it to gain access to numerous email accounts of Clinton Campaign employees and volunteers, including campaign chairman John Podesta, junior volunteers assigned to the Clinton Campaign’s advance team, informal Clinton Campaign advisors, and a DNC employee.118 GRU officers stole tens of thousands of emails from spearphishing victims, including various Clinton Campaign-related communications.113 Bitcoin mining consists of unlocking new bitcoins by solving computational problems. ■■■■■■■■■■■■ kept its newly mined coins in an account on the bitcoin exchange platform CEX.io. To make purchases, the GRU routed funds into other accounts through transactions designed to obscure the source of funds. Netyksho Indictment ¶ 62.114 Netyksho Indictment ¶ 69.115 Netyksho Indictment ¶ 9.116 See SM-2589105, serials 144 &amp; 495.117 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■118 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Vol. 1, Page 37By no later than April 12, 2016, the GRU had gained access to the DCCC computer network using the credentials stolen from a DCCC employee who had been successfully spearphished the week before. Over the ensuing weeks, the GRU traversed the network, identifying different computers connected to the DCCC network. By stealing network access credentials along the way (including those of IT administrators with unrestricted access to the system), the GRU compromised approximately 29 different computers on the DCCC network.119Approximately six days after first hacking into the DCCC network, on April 18, 2016, GRU officers gained access to the DNC network via a virtual private network (VPN) connection120 between the DCCC and DNC networks.121 Between April 18, 2016 and June 8, 2016, Unit 26165 compromised more than 30 computers on the DNC network, including the DNC mail server and shared file server.122Unit 26165 implanted on the DCCC and DNC networks two types of customized malware,123 known as “X-Agent” and “X-Tunnel”; Mimikatz, a credential-harvesting tool; and rar.exe, a tool used in these intrusions to compile and compress materials for exfiltration. X-Agent was a multi-function hacking tool that allowed Unit 26165 to log keystrokes, take screenshots, and gather other data about the infected computers (e.g., file directories, operating systems).124 X-Tunnel was a hacking tool that created an encrypted connection between the victim DCCC/DNC computers and GRU-controlled computers outside the DCCC and DNC networks that was capable of large-scale data transfers.125 GRU officers then used X-Tunnel to exfiltrate stolen data from the victim computers.119 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■120 A VPN extends a private network, allowing users to send and receive data across public networks (such as the internet) as if the connecting computer was directly connected to the private network. The VPN in this case had been created to give a small number of DCCC employees access to certain databases housed on the DNC network. Therefore, while the DCCC employees were outside the DNC’s private network, they could access parts of the DNC network from their DCCC computers.121 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ SM-2589105-HACK, serial 5.122 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ M-2589105-HACK, serial 5.123 “Malware” is short for malicious software, and here refers to software designed to allow a third party to infiltrate a computer without the consent or knowledge of the computer’s user or operator.124 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■125 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Vol. 1, Page 38To operate X-Agent and X-Tunnel on the DCCC and DNC networks, Unit 26165 officers set up a group of computers outside those networks to communicate with the implanted malware.126127The AMS Panel used to control X-Agent during the DCCC and DNC intrusions was housed on a leased computer located near ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ Arizona.128 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■129■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■126 In connection with these intrusions, the GRU used computers (virtual private networks, dedicated servers operated by hosting companies, etc.) that it leased from third-party providers located all over the world. The investigation identified rental agreements and payments for computers located in, inter alia, ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ all of which were used in the operations targeting the U.S. election.127 Netyksho Indictment ¶ 25.128 Netyksho Indictment ¶ 24(c).129 129 Netyksho Indictment ¶ 24(b).Vol. 1, Page 39The Arizona-based AMS Panel also stored thousands of files containing keylogging sessions captured through X-Agent. These sessions were captured as GRU officers monitored DCCC and DNC employees’ work on infected computers regularly between April 2016 and June 2016. Data captured in these keylogging sessions included passwords, internal communications between employees, banking information, and sensitive personal information.Officers from Unit 26165 stole thousands of documents from the DCCC and DNC networks, including significant amounts of data pertaining to the 2016 U.S. federal elections. Stolen documents included internal strategy documents, fundraising data, opposition research, and emails from the work inboxes of DNC employees.130The GRU began stealing DCCC data shortly after it gained access to the network. On April 14, 2016 (approximately three days after the initial intrusion) GRU officers downloaded rar.exe onto the DCCC’s document server. The following day, the GRU searched one compromised DCCC computer for files containing search terms that included “Hillary,” “DNC,” “Cruz,” and “Trump."131 On April 25, 2016, the GRU collected and compressed PDF and Microsoft documents from folders on the DCCC’s shared file server that pertained to the 2016 election.132 The GRU appears to have compressed and exfiltrated over 70 gigabytes of data from this file server.133The GRU also stole documents from the DNC network shortly after gaining access. On April 22, 2016, the GRU copied files from the DNC network to GRU-controlled computers. Stolen documents included the DNC’s opposition research into candidate Trump.134 Between approximately May 25, 2016 and June 1, 2016, GRU officers accessed the DNC’s mail server from a GRU-controlled computer leased inside the United States.135 During these connections,130 Netyksho Indictment ¶¶ 27-29; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■131 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■132 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■133 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■134 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ SM-2589105-HACK, serial 5. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■135 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ See SM-2589105-GJ, serial 649. As part of its investigation, the FBI later received images of DNC servers and copies of relevant traffic logs. Netyksho Indictment ¶¶ 28-29.Vol. 1, Page 40Unit 26165 officers appear to have stolen thousands of emails and attachments, which were later released by WikiLeaks in July 2016.136The GRU’s operations extended beyond stealing materials, and included releasing documents stolen from the Clinton Campaign and its supporters. The GRU carried out the anonymous release through two fictitious online personas that it created — DCLeaks and Guccifer 2.0 — and later through the organization WikiLeaks.The GRU began planning the releases at least as early as April 19, 2016, when Unit 26165 registered the domain dcleaks.com through a service that anonymized the registrant.137 Unit 26165 paid for the registration using a pool of bitcoin that it had mined.138 The dcleaks.com landing page pointed to different tranches of stolen documents, arranged by victim or subject matter. Other dcleaks.com pages contained indexes of the stolen emails that were being released (bearing the sender, recipient, and date of the email). To control access and the timing of releases, pages were sometimes password-protected for a period of time and later made unrestricted to the public.Starting in June 2016, the GRU posted stolen documents onto the website dcleaks.com, including documents stolen from a number of individuals associated with the Clinton Campaign. These documents appeared to have originated from personal email accounts (in particular, Google and Microsoft accounts), rather than the DNC and DCCC computer networks. DCLeaks victims included an advisor to the Clinton Campaign, a former DNC employee and Clinton Campaign employee, and four other campaign volunteers.139 The GRU released through dcleaks.com thousands of documents, including personal identifying and financial information, internal correspondence related to the Clinton Campaign and prior political jobs, and fundraising files and information. 140136 Netyksho Indictment ¶ 29. The last-in-time DNC email released by WikiLeaks was dated May 25, 2016, the same period of time during which the GRU gained access to the DNC’s email server. Netyksho Indictment ¶ 145.137Netyksho Indictment ¶ 35. Approximately a week before the registration of dcleaks.com, the same actors attempted to register the website electionleaks.com using the same domain registration service. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■138 See SM-2589105, serial 181; Netyksho Indictment ¶ 21(a).139 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■140 See, e.g., Internet Archive, “https://dcleaks.com/” (archive date Nov. 10, 2016). Additionally, DCLeaks released documents relating to ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■, emails belonging to ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■, and emails from 2015 relating to Republican Party employees (under the portfolio name “The United States Republican Party’). “The United States Republican Party” portfolio contained approximately 300 emails from a variety of GOP members, PACs, campaigns, state parties, and businesses dated between May and October 2015. According to open-source reporting, these victims shared the same Tennessee-based web-hosting company, called Smartech Corporation. William Bastone, RNC E-Mail Was, In Fact, Hacked By Russians, The Smoking Gun (Dec. 13, 2016).Vol. 1, Page 41GRU officers operated a Facebook page under the DCLeaks moniker, which they primarily used to promote releases of materials.141 The Facebook page was administered through a small number of preexisting GRU-controlled Facebook accounts.142GRU officers also used the DCLeaks Facebook account, the Twitter account @dcleaks, and the email account dcleaksproject@gmail.com to communicate privately with reporters and other U.S. persons. GRU officers using the DCLeaks persona gave certain reporters early access to archives of leaked files by sending them links and passwords to pages on the dcleaks.com website that had not yet become public. For example, on July 14, 2016, GRU officers operating under the DCLeaks persona sent a link and password for a non-public DCLeaks webpage to a U.S. reporter via the Facebook account.143 Similarly, on September 14, 2016, GRU officers sent reporters Twitter direct messages from @dcleaks, with a password to another non-public part of the dcleaks.com website.144The DCLeaks.com website remained operational and public until March 2017.On June 14, 2016, the DNC and its cyber-response team announced the breach of the DNC network and suspected theft of DNC documents. In the statements, the cyber-response team alleged that Russian state-sponsored actors (which they referred to as “Fancy Bear") were responsible for the breach.145 Apparently in response to that announcement, on June 15, 2016, GRU officers using the persona Guccifer 2.0 created a WordPress blog. In the hours leading up to the launch of that WordPress blog, GRU officers logged into a Moscow-based server used and managed by Unit 74455 and searched for a number of specific words and phrases in English, including “some hundred sheets,” “illuminati,” and “worldwide known.” Approximately two hours after the last of those searches, Guccifer 2.0 published its first post, attributing the DNC server hack to a lone Romanian hacker and using several of the unique English words and phrases that the GRU officers had searched for that day.145141 Netyksho Indictment ¶ 38.142 See, e.g., Facebook Account 100008825623541 (Alice Donovan).1437/14/16 Facebook Message, ID 793058100795341 (DC Leaks) to ID ■■■■■■■■■144See, e.g., 9/14/16 Twitter DM, @dcleaks to ■■■■■■■■■ ; 9/14/16 Twitter DM, @dcleaks_to ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ The messages read: “Hi https://t.co/QTVKUjQcOx pass: KvFsg%*14@gPgu&amp; enjoy ;).”145 Dmitri Alperovitch, Bears in the Midst: Intrusion into the Democratic National Committee, CrowdStrike Blog (June 14, 2016). CrowdStrike updated its post after the June 15, 2016 post by Guccifer 2.0 claiming responsibility for the intrusion.146 Netyksho Indictment ¶¶ 41-42.Vol. 1, Page 42That same day, June 15, 2016, the GRU also used the Guccifer 2.0 WordPress blog to begin releasing to the public documents stolen from the DNC and DCCC computer networks. The Guccifer 2.0 persona ultimately released thousands of documents stolen from the DNC and DCCC in a series of blog posts between June 15, 2016 and October 18, 2016.147 Released documents included opposition research performed by the DNC (including a memorandum analyzing potential criticisms of candidate Trump), internal policy documents (such as recommendations on how to address politically sensitive issues), analyses of specific congressional races, and fundraising documents. Releases were organized around thematic issues, such as specific states (e.g., Florida and Pennsylvania) that were perceived as competitive in the 2016 U.S. presidential election.Beginning in late June 2016, the GRU also used the Guccifer 2.0 persona to release documents directly to reporters and other interested individuals. Specifically, on June 27, 2016, Guccifer 2.0 sent an email to the news outlet The Smoking Gun offering to provide “exclusive access to some leaked emails linked ſto] Hillary Clinton’s staff."148 The GRU later sent the reporter a password and link to a locked portion of the dcleaks.com website that contained an archive of emails stolen by Unit 26165 from a Clinton Campaign volunteer in March 2016.149 That the Guccifer 2.0 persona provided reporters access to a restricted portion of the DCLeaks website tends to indicate that both personas were operated by the same or a closely-related group of people.150The GRU continued its release efforts through Guccifer 2.0 into August 2016. For example, on August 15, 2016, the Guccifer 2.0 persona sent a candidate for the U.S. Congress documents related to the candidate’s opponent.151 On August 22, 2016, the Guccifer 2.0 persona transferred approximately 2.5 gigabytes of Florida-related data stolen from the DCCC to a U.S. blogger covering Florida politics.152 On August 22, 2016, the Guccifer 2.0 persona sent a U.S. reporter documents stolen from the DCCC pertaining to the Black Lives Matter movement.153147 Releases of documents on the Guccifer 2.0 blog occurred on June 15, 2016; June 20, 2016; June 21, 2016; July 6, 2016; July 14, 2016; August 12, 2016; August 15, 2016; August 21, 2016; August 31, 2016; September 15, 2016; September 23, 2016; October 4, 2016; and October 18, 2016.1486/27/16 Email, guccifer20@aol.fr to ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ (subject “leaked emails"); ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■159 6/27/16 Email, guccifer20@aol.fr to ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ (subject “leaked emails”); ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■; see also 6/27/16 Email, guccifer20@aol.fr to ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ (subject “leaked emails”); ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ (claiming DCLeaks was a “Wikileaks sub project”).150 Before sending the reporter the link and password to the closed DCLeaks website, and in an apparent effort to deflect attention from the fact that DCLeaks and Guccifer 2.0 were operated by the same organization, the Guccifer 2.0 persona sent the reporter an email stating that DCLeaks was a “Wikileaks sub project and that Guccifer 2.0 had asked DCLeaks to release the leaked emails with “closed access” to give reporters a preview of them.151 Netyksho Indictment ¶ 43(a).152 Netyksho Indictment ¶ 43(b).153 Netyksho Indictment ¶ 43(c).Vol. 1, Page 43The GRU was also in contact through the Guccifer 2.0 persona with ■■■■■■■■■ a former Trump Campaign member■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■154 In early August 2016, ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ Twitter’s suspension of the Guccifer 2.0 Twitter account. After it was reinstated, GRU officers posing as Guccifer 2.0 wrote ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ via private message, “thank u for writing back ... do u find anyt[h]ing interesting in the docs i posted?” On August 17, 2016, the GRU added, “please tell me if i can help u anyhow ... it would be a great pleasure to me.” On September 9, 2016, the GRU — again posing as Guccifer 2.0 — referred to a stolen DCCC document posted online and asked ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ “what do u think of the info on the turnout model for the democrats entire presidential campaign.” ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ responded, “pretty standard.":155 The investigation did not identify evidence of other communications between ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ and Guccifer 2.0.In order to expand its interference in the 2016 U.S. presidential election, the GRU units transferred many of the documents they stole from the DNC and the chairman of the Clinton Campaign to WikiLeaks. GRU officers used both the DCLeaks and Guccifer 2.0 personas to communicate with WikiLeaks through Twitter private messaging and through encrypted channels, including possibly through WikiLeaks’s private communication system.WikiLeaks, and particularly its founder Julian Assange, privately expressed opposition to candidate Clinton well before the first release of stolen documents. In November 2015, Assange wrote to other members and associates of WikiLeaks that “[w]e believe it would be much better for GOP to win ... Dems+Media+liberals woudl [sic] then form a block to reign in their worst qualities. ... With Hillary in charge, GOP will be pushing for her worst qualities., dems+media+neoliberals will be mute.... She’s a bright, well connected, sadisitic sociopath."156In March 2016, WikiLeaks released a searchable archive of approximately 30,000 Clinton emails that had been obtained through FOIA litigation.157 While designing the archive, one WikiLeaks member explained the reason for building the archive to another associate:154 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■155 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■156 11/19/15 Twitter Group Chat, Group ID 594242937858486276, @WikiLeaks et al. Assange also wrote that, “GOP will generate a lot oposition [sic], including through dumb moves. Hillary will do the same thing, but co-opt the liberal opposition and the GOP opposition. Hence hillary has greater freedom to start wars than the GOP and has the will to do so.” Id.157 WikiLeaks, “Hillary Clinton Email Archive,” available at https://wikileaks.org/clinton-emails/.Vol. 1, Page 44\[W]e want this repository to become “the place” to search for background on hillary’s plotting at the state department during 2009-2013. ... Firstly because its useful and will annoy Hillary, but secondly because we want to be seen to be a resource/player in the US election, because eit [sic] may en[]courage people to send us even more important leaks.158Shortly after the GRU’s first release of stolen documents through dcleaks.com in June 2016, GRU officers also used the DCLeaks persona to contact WikiLeaks about possible coordination in the future release of stolen emails. On June 14, 2016, @dcleaks_sent a direct message to @WikiLeaks, noting, “You announced your organization was preparing to publish more Hillary’s emails. We are ready to support you. We have some sensitive information too, in particular, her financial documents. Let’s do it together. What do you think about publishing our info at the same moment? Thank you."159 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Around the same time, WikiLeaks initiated communications with the GRU persona Guccifer 2.0 shortly after it was used to release documents stolen from the DNC. On June 22, 2016, seven days after Guccifer 2.0’s first releases of stolen DNC documents, WikiLeaks used Twitter’s direct message function to contact the Guccifer 2.0 Twitter account and suggest that Guccifer 2.0"[s]end any new material [stolen from the DNC] here for us to review and it will have a much higher impact than what you are doing."160On July 6, 2016, WikiLeaks again contacted Guccifer 2.0 through Twitter’s private messaging function, writing, “if you have anything hillary related we want it in the next tweo [sic] days prefable [sic] because the DNC is approaching and she will solidify bernie supporters behind her after.” The Guccifer 2.0 persona responded, “ok ... i see.” WikiLeaks also explained, “we think trump has only a 25% chance of winning against hillary ... so conflict between bernie and hillary is interesting."161Both the GRU and WikiLeaks sought to hide their communications, which has limited the Office’s ability to collect all of the communications between them. Thus, although it is clear that the stolen DNC and Podesta documents were transferred from the GRU to WikiLeaks, ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■158 3/14/16 Twitter DM, @WikiLeaks to ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Less than two weeks earlier, the same account had been used to send a private message opposing the idea of Clinton “in whitehouse with her bloodlutt and amitions [sic] of empire with hawkish liberal-interventionist appointees.” 11/19/15 Twitter Group Chat, Group ID 594242937858486276, @WikiLeaks et al.159 6/14/16 Twitter DM, @dcleaks_ to @WikiLeaks.160 Netyksho Indictment ¶ 47(a).161 7/6/16 Twitter DMs, @WikiLeaks &amp; @guccifer_2.Vol. 1, Page 45The Office was able to identify when the GRU (operating through its personas Guccifer 2.0 and DCLeaks) transferred some of the stolen documents to WikiLeaks through online archives set up by the GRU. Assange had access to the internet from the Ecuadorian Embassy in London, England. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■162On July 14, 2016, GRU officers used a Guccifer 2.0 email account to send WikiLeaks an email bearing the subject “big archive” and the message “a new attempt."163 The email contained an encrypted attachment with the name “wk dnc link1.txt.gpg."164 Using the Guccifer 2.0 Twitter account, GRU officers sent WikiLeaks an encrypted file and instructions on how to open it.165 On July 18, 2016, WikiLeaks confirmed in a direct message to the Guccifer 2.0 account that it had “the 1Gb or so archive” and would make a release of the stolen documents “this week."166 On July 22, 2016, WikiLeaks released over 20,000 emails and other documents stolen from the DNC computer networks.167 The Democratic National Convention began three days later.Similar communications occurred between WikiLeaks and the GRU-operated persona DCLeaks. On September 15, 2016, @dcleaks wrote to @WikiLeaks, “hi there! I’m from DC Leaks. How could we discuss some submission-related issues? Am trying to reach out to you via your secured chat but getting no response. I’ve got something that might interest you. You won’t be disappointed, I promise."168 The WikiLeaks account responded, “Hi there,” without further elaboration. The @dcleaks_ account did not respond immediately. The same day, the Twitter account @guccifer_2 sent @dcleaks_ a direct message, which is the first known contact between the personas.169 During subsequent communications, the162 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■163 This was not the GRU’s first attempt at transferring data to WikiLeaks. On June 29, 2016, the GRU used a Guccifer 2.0 email account to send a large encrypted file to a WikiLeaks email account. 6/29/16 Email, guccifer2@mail.com ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ (The email appears to have been undelivered.)164 See SM-2589105-DCLEAKS, serial 28 (analysis).165 6/27/16 Twitter DM, @Guccifer_2 to @WikiLeaks.166 7/18/16 Twitter DM, @Guccifer_2 &amp; @WikiLeaks.167 “DNC Email Archive,” WikiLeaks (Jul. 22, 2016), available at https://wikileaks.org/dnc-emails.1689/15/16 Twitter DM, @dcleaks to @WikiLeaks.169 9/15/16 Twitter DM, @guccifer_2 to @dcleaks_.Vol. 1, Page 46Guccifer 2.0 persona informed DCLeaks that WikiLeaks was trying to contact DCLeaks and arrange for a way to speak through encrypted emails."170An analysis of the metadata collected from the WikiLeaks site revealed that the stolen Podesta emails show a creation date of September 19, 2016.171 Based on information about Assange’s computer and its possible operating system, this date may be when the GRU staged the stolen Podesta emails for transfer to WikiLeaks (as the GRU had previously done in July 2016 for the DNC emails).172 The WikiLeaks site also released PDFs and other documents taken from Podesta that were attachments to emails in his account; these documents had a creation date of October 2, 2016, which appears to be the date the attachments were separately staged by WikiLeaks on its site.173Beginning on September 20, 2016, WikiLeaks and DCLeaks resumed communications in a brief exchange. On September 22, 2016, a DCLeaks email account dcleaksproject@gmail.com sent an email to a WikiLeaks account with the subject “Submission” and the message “Hi from DCLeaks.” The email contained a PGP-encrypted message with the filename “wiki mail.txt.gpg."174 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ The email, however, bears a number of similarities to the July 14, 2016 email in which GRU officers used the Guccifer 2.0 persona to give WikiLeaks access to the archive of DNC files. On September 22, 2016 (the same day of DCLeaks’ email to WikiLeaks), the Twitter account @dcleaks sent a single message to @WikiLeaks with the string of characters ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■The Office cannot rule out that stolen documents were transferred to WikiLeaks through intermediaries who visited during the summer of 2016. For example, public reporting identified Andrew Müller-Maguhn as a WikiLeaks associate who may have assisted with the transfer of these stolen documents to WikiLeaks.175 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■170 See SM-2589105-DCLEAKS, serial 28; 9/15/16 Twitter DM, @Guccifer_2 &amp; @WikiLeaks.171 See SM-2284941, serials 63 &amp; 64 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■172 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ At the time, certain Apple operating systems used a setting that left a downloaded file’s creation date the same as the creation date shown on the host computer. This would explain why the creation date on WikiLeaks’s version of the files was still September 19, 2016. See SM-2284941, serial 62 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■173 When WikiLeaks saved attachments separately from the stolen emails, its computer system appears to have treated each attachment as a new file and given it a new creation date. See SM-2284941, serials 63 &amp; 64.174 See 9/22/16 Email, dcleaksproject@gmail.com ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■175 Ellen Nakashima et al., A German Hacker Offers a Rare Look Inside the Secretive World of Julian Assange and WikiLeaks, Washington Post (Jan. 17, 2018). 47Vol. 1, Page 47■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■176On October 7, 2016, WikiLeaks released the first emails stolen from the Podesta email account. In total, WikiLeaks released 33 tranches of stolen emails between October 7, 2016 and November 7, 2016. The releases included private speeches given by Clinton;177 internal communications between Podesta and other high-ranking members of the Clinton Campaign;178 and correspondence related to the Clinton Foundation.179 In total, WikiLeaks released over 50,000 documents stolen from Podesta’s personal email account. The last-in-time email released from Podesta’s account was dated March 21, 2016, two days after Podesta received a spearphishing email sent by the GRU.As reports attributing the DNC and DCCC hacks to the Russian government emerged, WikiLeaks and Assange made several public statements apparently designed to obscure the source of the materials that WikiLeaks was releasing. The file-transfer evidence described above and other information uncovered during the investigation discredit WikiLeaks’s claims about the source of material that it posted.Beginning in the summer of 2016, Assange and WikiLeaks made a number of statements about Seth Rich, a former DNC staff member who was killed in July 2016. The statements about Rich implied falsely that he had been the source of the stolen DNC emails. On August 9, 2016, the @WikiLeaks Twitter account posted: “ANNOUNCE: WikiLeaks has decided to issue a US$20k reward for information leading to conviction for the murder of DNC staffer Seth Rich."180 Likewise, on August 25, 2016, Assange was asked in an interview, “Why are you so interested in Seth Rich’s killer?” and responded, “We’re very interested in anything that might be a threat to alleged Wikileaks sources.” The interviewer responded to Assange’s statement by commenting, “I know you don’t want to reveal your source, but it certainly sounds like you’re suggesting a man who leaked information to WikiLeaks was then murdered.” Assange replied, “If there’s someone who’s potentially connected to our publication, and that person has been murdered in suspicious176 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■177 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■178 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■179 Netyksho Indictment ¶ 43.180 @WikiLeaks 8/9/16 Tweet.Vol. 1, Page 48circumstances, it doesn’t necessarily mean that the two are connected. But it is a very serious matter...that type of allegation is very serious, as it’s taken very seriously by us."181After the U.S. intelligence community publicly announced its assessment that Russia was behind the hacking operation, Assange continued to deny that the Clinton materials released by WikiLeaks had come from Russian hacking. According to media reports, Assange told a U.S. congressman that the DNC hack was an “inside job,” and purported to have “physical proof that Russians did not give materials to Assange.182While releasing the stolen emails and documents through DCLeaks, Guccifer 2.0, and WikiLeaks, GRU officers continued to target and hack victims linked to the Democratic campaign and, eventually, to target entities responsible for election administration in several states.On July 27, 2016, Unit 26165 targeted email accounts connected to candidate Clinton’s personal office ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■. Earlier that day, candidate Trump made public statements that included the following: “Russia, if you’re listening, I hope you’re able to find the 30,000 emails that are missing. I think you will probably be rewarded mightily by our press."183 The “30,000 emails” were apparently a reference to emails described in media accounts as having been stored on a personal server that candidate Clinton had used while serving as Secretary of State.Within approximately five hours of Trump’s statement, GRU officers targeted for the first time Clinton’s personal office. After candidate Trump’s remarks, Unit 26165 created and sent malicious links targeting 15 email accounts at the domain ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ including an email account belonging to Clinton aide ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ The investigation did not find evidence of earlier GRU attempts to compromise accounts hosted on this domain. It is unclear how the GRU was able to identify these email accounts, which were not public.184Unit 26165 officers also hacked into a DNC account hosted on a cloud-computing service ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ On September 20, 2016, the GRU began to generate copies of the DNC data using ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ function designed to allow users to produce backups of databases (referred to ■■■■■■■■■ as “snapshots”). The GRU then stole those snapshots by moving181 See Assange: “Murdered DNC Staffer Was ‘Potential’ WikiLeaks Source,” Fox News (Aug. 25, 2016)(containing video of Assange interview by Megyn Kelly).182 M. Raju &amp; Z. Cohen, A GOP Congressman’s Lonely Quest Defending Julian Assange, CNN (May 23, 2018).183 “Donald Trump on Russian &amp; Missing Hillary Clinton Emails,” YouTube Channel C-SPAN, Posted 7/27/16, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3kxG8uJUSWU (starting at 0:41).184 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Vol. 1, Page 49them to ■■■■■■■■■ account that they controlled; from there, the copies were moved to GRU-controlled computers. The GRU stole approximately 300 gigabytes of data from the DNC cloud-based account.185In addition to targeting individuals involved in the Clinton Campaign, GRU officers also targeted individuals and entities involved in the administration of the elections. Victims included U.S. state and local entities, such as state boards of elections (SBOEs), secretaries of state, and county governments, as well as individuals who worked for those entities.186 The GRU also targeted private technology firms responsible for manufacturing and administering election-related software and hardware, such as voter registration software and electronic polling stations.187 The GRU continued to target these victims through the elections in November 2016. While the investigation identified evidence that the GRU targeted these individuals and entities, the Office did not investigate further. The Office did not, for instance, obtain or examine servers or other relevant items belonging to these victims. The Office understands that the FBI, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, and the states have separately investigated that activity.By at least the summer of 2016, GRU officers sought access to state and local computer networks by exploiting known software vulnerabilities on websites of state and local governmental entities. GRU officers, for example, targeted state and local databases of registered voters using a technique known as “SQL injection,” by which malicious code was sent to the state or local website in order to run commands (such as exfiltrating the database contents).188 In one instance in approximately June 2016, the GRU compromised the computer network of the Illinois State Board of Elections by exploiting a vulnerability in the SBOE’s website. The GRU then gained access to a database containing information on millions of registered Illinois voters,189 and extracted data related to thousands of U.S. voters before the malicious activity was identified.190190 GRU officers ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ scanned state and local websites for vulnerabilities. For example, over a two-day period in July 2016, GRU officers ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ for vulnerabilities on websites of more than two dozen states. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■185 Netyksho Indictment ¶ 34; see also SM-2589105-HACK, serial 29 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■186 Netyksho Indictment ¶ 69.187 Netyksho Indictment ¶ 69; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■188 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■189 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■190 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Vol. 1, Page 50■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ Similar ■■■■■■■■■ for vulnerabilities continued through the election.Unit 74455 also sent spearphishing emails to public officials involved in election administration and personnel at companies involved in voting technology. In August 2016, GRU officers targeted employees of ■■■■■■■■■, a voting technology company that developed software used by numerous U.S. counties to manage voter rolls, and installed malware on the company network. Similarly, in November 2016, the GRU sent spearphishing emails to over 120 email accounts used by Florida county officials responsible for administering the 2016 U.S. election.191 The spearphishing emails contained an attached Word document coded with malicious software (commonly referred to as a Trojan) that permitted the GRU to access the infected computer. 192 The FBI was separately responsible for this investigation. We understand the FBI believes that this operation enabled the GRU to gain access to the network of at least one Florida county government. The Office did not independently verify that belief and, as explained above, did not undertake the investigative steps that would have been necessary to do so.The Trump Campaign showed interest in WikiLeaks’s releases of hacked materials throughout the summer and fall of 2016. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■191 Netyksho Indictment ¶ 76; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■192 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Vol. 1, Page 51■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■193 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ On June 12, 2016, Assange claimed in a televised interview to “have emails relating to Hillary Clinton which are pending publication,"194 but provided no additional context.In debriefings with the Office, former deputy campaign chairman Rick Gates said that, ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■195 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ Gates recalled candidate Trump being generally frustrated that the Clinton emails had not been found.196Paul Manafort, who would later become campaign chairman, ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■.197 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■198193 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■194 See Mahita Gajanan, Julian Assange Timed DNC Email Release for Democratic Convention, Time (July 27, 2016) (quoting the June 12, 2016 television interview).195 In February 2018, Gates pleaded guilty, pursuant to a plea agreement, to a superseding criminal information charging him with conspiring to defraud and commit multiple offenses (i.e., tax fraud, failure to report foreign bank accounts, and acting as an unregistered agent of a foreign principal) against the United States, as well as making false statements to our Office. Superseding Criminal Information, United States v. Richard W. Gates III, 1:17-cr-201 (D.D.C. Feb. 23, 2018), Doc. 195 (“Gates Superseding Criminal Information"); Plea Agreement, United States v. Richard W. Gates III, 1:17-cr-201 (D.D.C. Feb. 23, 2018), Doc. 205 (“Gates Plea Agreement”). Gates has provided information and in-court testimony that the Office has deemed to be reliable.196 Gates 10/25/18 302, at 1-2.197 As explained further in Volume I, Section IV.A.8, infra, Manafort entered into a plea agreement with our Office. We determined that he breached the agreement by being untruthful in proffer sessions and before the grand jury. We have generally recounted his version of events in this report only when his statements are sufficiently corroborated to be trustworthy; to identify issues on which Manafort’s untruthful responses may themselves be of evidentiary value; or to provide Manafort’s explanations for certain events, even when we were unable to determine whether that explanation was credible. His account appears here principally because it aligns with those of other witnesses.198 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Vol. 1, Page 52Michael Cohen, former executive vice president of the Trump Organization and special counsel to Donald J. Trump,199 told the Office that he recalled an incident in which he was in candidate Trump’s office in Trump Tower ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■200 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■201 Cohen further told the Office that, after WikiLeaks’s subsequent release of stolen DNC emails in July 2016, candidate Trump said to Cohen something to the effect of, ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■202■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ According to Gates, Manafort expressed excitement about the release ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■203 Manafort, for his part, told the Office that, shortly after WikiLeaks’s July 22 release, Manafort also spoke with candidate Trump ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■204 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■205 Manafort also ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ wanted to be kept apprised of any199 In November 2018, Cohen pleaded guilty pursuant to a plea agreement to a single-count information charging him with making false statements to Congress, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1001(a) &amp; (c). He had previously pleaded guilty to several other criminal charges brought by the U.S. Attorney’s Office in the Southern District of New York, after a referral from this Office. In the months leading up to his false-statements guilty plea, Cohen met with our Office on multiple occasions for interviews and provided information that the Office has generally assessed to be reliable and that is included in this report.200 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■201 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■202 Cohen 9/18/18 302, at 10. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■203 Gates 10/25/18 302 (serial 241), at 4.204 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■205 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Vol. 1, Page 53future developments with WikiLeaks and separately told Gates to keep in touch ■■■■■■■■■ about future WikiLeaks releases.206According to Gates, by the late summer of 2016, the Trump Campaign was planning a press strategy, a communications campaign, and messaging based on the possible release of Clinton emails by WikiLeaks1.207 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■.208 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ while Trump and Gates were driving to LaGuardia Airport. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■, shortly after the call candidate Trump told Gates that more releases of damaging information would be coming.209■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■211 Corsi is an author who holds a doctorate in political science.212 In 2016, Corsi also worked for the media outlet WorldNetDaily (WND). ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ 213206 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■207 Gates 4/10/18 302, at 3; Gates 4/11/18 302, at 1-2 (SM-2180998); Gates 10/25/18 302, at 2.208 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■209 Gates 10/25/18 302 (serial 241), at 4.210 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■211 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■212 Corsi first rose to public prominence in August 2004 when he published his book Unfit for Command: Swift Boat Veterans Speak Out Against John Kerry. In the 2008 election cycle, Corsi gained prominence for being a leading proponent of the allegation that Barack Obama was not born in the United States. Corsi told the Office that Donald Trump expressed interest in his writings, and that he spoke with Trump on the phone on at least six occasions. Corsi 9/6/18 302, at 3.213 Corsi 10/31/18 302, at 2; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ Corsi was first interviewed on September 6, 2018 at the Special Counsel’s offices in Washington, D.C. He was accompanied by counsel throughout the interview. Corsi was subsequently interviewed on September 17, 2018; September 21, 2018; October 31, 2018; November 1, 2018; and November 2, 2018. Counsel was present for all interviews, and the interviews beginning on September 21, 2018 were conducted pursuant to a proffer agreement that precluded affirmative use of his statements against him in limited circumstances.Vol. 1, Page 54■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■214 Corsi told the Office during interviews that he “must have” previously discussed Assange with Malloch.215 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■216 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■217■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ According to Malloch, Corsi asked him to put Corsi in touch with Assange, whom Corsi wished to interview. Malloch recalled that Corsi also suggested that individuals in the “orbit” of U.K. politician Nigel Farage might be able to contact Assange and asked if Malloch knew them. Malloch told Corsi that he would think about the request but made no actual attempt to connect Corsi with Assange.218■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■219 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■220214 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■215 Corsi 10/31/18 302, at 4.216 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■217 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■218 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ Malloch denied ever communicating with Assange or WikiLeaks, stating that he did not pursue the request to contact Assange because he believed he had no connections to Assange. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■219 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■220 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Vol. 1, Page 55Malloch stated to investigators that beginning in or about August 2016, he and Corsi had multiple Face Time discussions about WikiLeaks ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ had made a connection to Assange and that the hacked emails of John Podesta would be released prior to Election Day and would be helpful to the Trump Campaign. In one conversation in or around August or September 2016, Corsi told Malloch that the release of the Podesta emails was coming, after which “we” were going to be in the driver’s seat.221■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■222 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■223 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■224 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■225■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■226 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■227 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■228)■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■229 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■221 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■222 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■223 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■224 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■225 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■226 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■227 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■228 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■229 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Vol. 1, Page 56■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■230 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■231 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■232■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■233 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■234 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■235 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■236 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■.237 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■238230 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■231 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■232 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■233 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■234 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■235 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■236 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■237 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■238 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Vol. 1, Page 57On October 7, 2016, four days after the Assange press conference ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ the Washington Post published an Access Hollywood video that captured comments by candidate Trump some years earlier and that was expected to adversely affect the Campaign.239 Less than an hour after the video’s publication, WikiLeaks released the first set of emails stolen by the GRU from the account of Clinton Campaign chairman John Podesta.■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■240 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■.241 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■242■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■243 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ Corsi said that, because he had no direct means of communicating with WikiLeaks, he told members of the news site WND — who were participating on a conference call with him that day — to reach Assange immediately.244 Corsi claimed that the pressure was239 Candidate Trump can be heard off camera making graphic statements about women.240 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■241 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■242 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■243 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■244 In a later November 2018 interview, Corsi stated ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ that he believed Malloch was on the call but then focused on other individuals who were on the call-invitation, which Malloch was not. (Separate travel records show that at the time of the call, Malloch was aboard a transatlantic flight). Corsi at one point stated that after WikiLeaks’s release of stolen emails on October 7, 2016, he concluded Malloch had gotten in contact with Assange. Corsi 11/1/18 302, at 6.Vol. 1, Page 58enormous and recalled telling the conference call the Access Hollywood tape was coming.245 Corsi stated that he was convinced that his efforts had caused WikiLeaks to release the emails when they did.246 In a later November 2018 interview, Corsi stated that he thought that he had told people on a WND conference call about the forthcoming tape and had sent out a tweet asking whether anyone could contact Assange, but then said that maybe he had done nothing.247The Office investigated Corsi’s allegations about the events of October 7, 2016 but found little corroboration for his allegations about the day.248 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■.249 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■.250 However, the phone records themselves do not indicate that the conversation was with any of the reporters who broke the Access Hollywood story, and the Office has not otherwise been able to identify the substance of the conversation. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■251 However, the Office has not identified any conference call participant, or anyone who spoke to Corsi that day, who says that they received non-public information about the tape from Corsi or acknowledged having contacted a member of WikiLeaks on October 7, 2016 after a conversation with Corsi.Donald Trump Jr. had direct electronic communications with WikiLeaks during the campaign period. On September 20, 2016, an individual named Jason Fishbein sent WikiLeaks the password for an unlaunched website focused on Trump’s “unprecedented and dangerous” ties245 During the same interview, Corsi also suggested that he may have sent out public tweets because he knew Assange was reading his tweets. Our Office was unable to find evidence of any such tweets.246 Corsi 9/21/18 302, at 6-7.247 Corsi 11/1/18 302, at 6.248 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■249 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■250 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■251 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Vol. 1, Page 59to Russia, PutinTrump.org.252 WikiLeaks publicly tweeted: “‘Let’s bomb Iraq’ Progress for America PAC to launch “Putin Trump.org” at 9:30am. Oops pw is ‘putintrump’ putintrump.org.” Several hours later, WikiLeaks sent a Twitter direct message to Donald Trump Jr., “A PAC run anti-Trump site putintrump.org is about to launch. The PAC is a recycled pro-Iraq war PAC. We have guessed the password. It is ‘putintrump.’ See ‘About for who is behind it. Any comments?’”253Trump Jr. attached a screenshot of the “About” page for the unlaunched site Putin Trump.org. The next day (after the website had launched publicly), Trump Jr. sent a direct message to WikiLeaks: “Off the record, I don’t know who that is but I’ll ask around. Thanks.”255On October 3, 2016, WikiLeaks sent another direct message to Trump Jr., asking “you guys” to help disseminate a link alleging candidate Clinton had advocated using a drone to target Julian Assange. Trump Jr. responded that he already “had done so,” and asked, “what’s behind this Wednesday leak I keep reading about?:256 WikiLeaks did not respond.On October 12, 2016, WikiLeaks wrote again that it was “great to see you and your dad talking about our publications. Strongly suggest your dad tweets this link if he mentions us wlsearch.tk."257 WikiLeaks wrote that the link would help Trump in “digging through” leaked emails and stated, “we just released Podesta emails Part 4."258 Two days later, Trump Jr. publicly tweeted the wlsearch.tk link.259252 9/20/16 Twitter DM, @JasonFishbein to @WikiLeaks; see JF00587 (9/21/16 Messages, ■■■■■■■■■ @jabber.cryptoparty.is &amp; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ @jabber.cryptoparty.is); Fishbein 9/5/18 302, at 4. When interviewed by our Office, Fishbein produced what he claimed to be logs from a chatroom in which the participants discussed U.S. politics; one of the other participants had posted the website and password that Fishbein sent to WikiLeaks.253 9/20/16 Twitter DM, @WikiLeaks to @DonaldJTrumpJr.254 TRUMPORG_28_000629-33 (9/21/16 Email, Trump Jr. to Conway et al. (subject “Wikileaks”)).255 9/21/16 Twitter DM, @DonaldJTrumpJr to @WikiLeaks.256 10/3/16 Twitter DMs, @DonaldJTrumpJr &amp; @WikiLeaks.257 At the time, the link took users to a WikiLeaks archive of stolen Clinton Campaign documents.258 10/12/16 Twitter DM, @WikiLeaks to @DonaldJTrumpJr.259 @DonaldJTrumpJr 10/14/16 (6:34 a.m.) Tweet.Vol. 1, Page 60Throughout 2016, the Trump Campaign expressed interest in Hillary Clinton’s private email server and whether approximately 30,000 emails from that server had in fact been permanently destroyed, as reported by the media. Several individuals associated with the Campaign were contacted in 2016 about various efforts to obtain the missing Clinton emails and other stolen material in support of the Trump Campaign. Some of these contacts were met with skepticism, and nothing came of them; others were pursued to some degree. The investigation did not find evidence that the Trump Campaign recovered any such Clinton emails, or that these contacts were part of a coordinated effort between Russia and the Trump Campaign.In the spring of 2016, Trump Campaign advisor Michael Caputo learned through a Florida-based Russian business partner that another Florida-based Russian, Henry Oknyansky (who also went by the name Henry Greenberg), claimed to have information pertaining to Hillary Clinton. Caputo notified Roger Stone and brokered communication between Stone and Oknyansky. Oknyansky and Stone set up a May 2016 in-person meeting.260Oknyansky was accompanied to the meeting by Alexei Rasin, a Ukrainian associate involved in Florida real estate. At the meeting, Rasin offered to sell Stone derogatory information on Clinton that Rasin claimed to have obtained while working for Clinton. Rasin claimed to possess financial statements demonstrating Clinton’s involvement in money laundering with Rasin’s companies. According to Oknyansky, Stone asked if the amounts in question totaled millions of dollars but was told it was closer to hundreds of thousands. Stone refused the offer, stating that Trump would not pay for opposition research.261Oknyansky claimed to the Office that Rasin’s motivation was financial. According to Oknyansky, Rasin had tried unsuccessfully to shop the Clinton information around to other interested parties, and Oknyansky would receive a cut if the information was sold.262 Rasin is noted in public source documents as the director and/or registered agent for a number of Florida companies, none of which appears to be connected to Clinton. The Office found no other evidence that Rasin worked for Clinton or any Clinton-related entities.In their statements to investigators, Oknyansky and Caputo had contradictory recollections about the meeting. Oknyansky claimed that Caputo accompanied Stone to the meeting and provided an introduction, whereas Caputo did not tell us that he had attended and claimed that he was never told what information Oknyansky offered. Caputo also stated that he was unaware Oknyansky sought to be paid for the information until Stone informed him after the fact.263260 Caputo 5/2/18 302, at 4; Oknyansky 7/13/18 302, at 1.261 Oknyansky 7/13/18 302, at 1-2.262 Oknyansky 7/13/18 302, at 2.263 Caputo 5/2/18 302, at 4; Oknyansky 7/13/18 302, at 1.Vol. 1, Page 61The Office did not locate Rasin in the United States, although the Office confirmed Rasin had been issued a Florida driver’s license. The Office otherwise was unable to determine the content and origin of the information he purportedly offered to Stone. Finally, the investigation did not identify evidence of a connection between the outreach or the meeting and Russian interference efforts.After candidate Trump stated on July 27, 2016, that he hoped Russia would “find the 30,000 emails that are missing,” Trump asked individuals affiliated with his Campaign to find the deleted Clinton emails.264 Michael Flynn — who would later serve as National Security Advisor in the Trump Administration — recalled that Trump made this request repeatedly, and Flynn subsequently contacted multiple people in an effort to obtain the emails.265Barbara Ledeen and Peter Smith were among the people contacted by Flynn. Ledeen, a long-time Senate staffer who had previously sought the Clinton emails, provided updates to Flynn about her efforts throughout the summer of 2016.266 Smith, an investment advisor who was active in Republican politics, also attempted to locate and obtain the deleted Clinton emails.267 Ledeen began her efforts to obtain the Clinton emails before Flynn’s request, as early as December 2015.268 On December 3, 2015, she emailed Smith a proposal to obtain the emails, stating, “Here is the proposal I briefly mentioned to you. The person I described to you would be happy to talk with you either in person or over the phone. The person can get the emails which 1. Were classified and 2. Were purloined by our enemies. That would demonstrate what needs to be demonstrated."269Attached to the email was a 25-page proposal stating that the “Clinton email server was, in all likelihood, breached long ago,” and that the Chinese, Russian, and Iranian intelligence services could “re-assemble the server’s email content."270 The proposal called for a three-phase approach. The first two phases consisted of open-source analysis. The third phase consisted of checking with certain intelligence sources that have access through liaison work with various foreign services” to determine if any of those services had gotten to the server. The proposal noted, “Even if a single email was recovered and the providence [sic] of that email was a foreign service, it would be catastrophic to the Clinton campaign[.]” Smith forwarded the email to two colleagues and264 Flynn 4/25/18 302, at 5-6; Flynn 5/1/18 302, at 1-3.265 Flynn 5/1/18 302, at 1-3.266 Flynn 4/25/18 302, at 7; Flynn 5/4/18 302, at 1-2; Flynn 11/29/17 302, at 7-8.267 Flynn 11/29/17 302, at 7.268 Szobocsan 3/29/17 302, at 1.269 12/3/15 Email, Ledeen to Smith.270 12/3/15 Email, Ledeen to Smith (attachment).Vol. 1, Page 62wrote, “we can discuss to whom it should be referred."271 On December 16, 2015, Smith informed Ledeen that he declined to participate in her “initiative.” According to one of Smith’s business associates, Smith believed Ledeen’s initiative was not viable at that time.272Just weeks after Trump’s July 2016 request to find the Clinton emails, however, Smith tried to locate and obtain the emails himself. He created a company, raised tens of thousands of dollars, and recruited security experts and business associates. Smith made claims to others involved in the effort (and those from whom he sought funding) that he was in contact with hackers with “ties and affiliations to Russia” who had access to the emails, and that his efforts were coordinated with the Trump Campaign.273On August 28, 2016, Smith sent an email from an encrypted account with the subject “Sec. Clinton’s unsecured private email server” to an undisclosed list of recipients, including Campaign co-chairman Sam Clovis. The email stated that Smith was “[j]ust finishing two days of sensitive meetings here in DC with involved groups to poke and probe on the above. It is clear that the Clinton’s home-based, unprotected server was hacked with ease by both State-related players, and private mercenaries. Parties with varying interests, are circling to release ahead of the election."274On September 2, 2016, Smith directed a business associate to establish KLS Research LLC in furtherance of his search for the deleted Clinton emails.275 One of the purposes of KLS Research was to manage the funds Smith raised in support of his initiative.276 KLS Research received over $30,000 during the presidential campaign, although Smith represented that he raised even more money.277Smith recruited multiple people for his initiative, including security experts to search for and authenticate the emails.278 In early September 2016, as part of his recruitment and fundraising effort, Smith circulated a document stating that his initiative was “in coordination” with the Trump Campaign, “to the extent permitted as an independent expenditure organization."279 The document listed multiple individuals affiliated with the Trump Campaign, including Flynn, Clovis, Bannon,271 12/3/15 Email, Smith to Szobocsan &amp; Safron.272 Szobocsan 3/29/18 302, at 1.273 8/31/16 Email, Smith to Smith.274 8/28/16 Email, Smith to Smith.275 Incorporation papers of KLS Research LLC, 7/26/17 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ Szobocsan 3/29/18 302, at 2.276 Szobocsan 3/29/18 302, at 3.277 Financial Institution Record of Peter Smith and KLS Research LLC, 10/31/17 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ 10/11/16 Email, Smith to ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■278 Tait 8/22/17 302, at 3; York 7/12/17 302, at 1-2; York 11/22/17 302, at 1.279 York 7/13/17 302 (attachment KLS Research, LLC, “Clinton Email Reconnaissance Initiative,” Sept. 9, 2016).Vol. 1, Page 63and Kellyanne Conway.280 The investigation established that Smith communicated with at least Flynn and Clovis about his search for the deleted Clinton emails,281 but the Office did not identify evidence that any of the listed individuals initiated or directed Smith’s efforts.In September 2016, Smith and Ledeen got back in touch with each other about their respective efforts. Ledeen wrote to Smith, “wondering if you had some more detailed reports or memos or other data you could share because we have come a long way in our efforts since we last visited. ... We would need as much technical discussion as possible so we could marry it against the new data we have found and then could share it back to you ‘your eyes only.’"282Ledeen claimed to have obtained a trove of emails (from what she described as the “dark web") that purported to be the deleted Clinton emails. Ledeen wanted to authenticate the emails and solicited contributions to fund that effort. Erik Prince provided funding to hire a tech advisor to ascertain the authenticity of the emails. According to Prince, the tech advisor determined that the emails were not authentic.283A backup of Smith’s computer contained two files that had been downloaded from WikiLeaks and that were originally attached to emails received by John Podesta. The files on Smith’s computer had creation dates of October 2, 2016, which was prior to the date of their release by WikiLeaks. Forensic examination, however, established that the creation date did not reflect when the files were downloaded to Smith’s computer. (It appears the creation date was when WikiLeaks staged the document for release, as discussed in Volume I, Section III.B.3.c, supra.284) The investigation did not otherwise identify evidence that Smith obtained the files before their release by WikiLeaks.Smith continued to send emails to an undisclosed recipient list about Clinton’s deleted emails until shortly before the election. For example, on October 28, 2016, Smith wrote that there was a “tug-of-war going on within WikiLeaks over its planned releases in the next few days,” and that WikiLeaks “has maintained that it will save its best revelations for last, under the theory this allows little time for response prior to the U.S. election November 8."285 An attachment to the280 The same recruitment document listed Jerome Corsi under “Independent Groups/Organizations/Individuals,” and described him as an “established author and writer from the right on President Obama and Sec. Clinton.”281 Flynn 11/29/17 302, at 7-8; 10/15/16 Email, Smith to Flynn et al.; 8/28/16 Email, Smith to Smith (bcc: Clovis et al.).282 9/16/16 Email, Ledeen to Smith.283 Prince 4/4/18 302, at 4-5.284 The forensic analysis of Smith’s computer devices found that Smith used an older Apple operating system that would have preserved that October 2, 2016 creation date when it was downloaded (no matter what day it was in fact downloaded by Smith). See Volume I, Section III.B.3.c, supra. The Office tested this theory in March 2019 by downloading the two files found on Smith’s computer from WikiLeaks’s site using the same Apple operating system on Smith’s computer; both files were successfully downloaded and retained the October 2, 2016 creation date. See SM-2284941, serial 62.285 10/28/16 Email, Smith to Smith.Vol. 1, Page 64email claimed that WikiLeaks would release “All 33k deleted Emails” by “November 1st.” No emails obtained from Clinton’s server were subsequently released.Smith drafted multiple emails stating or intimating that he was in contact with Russian hackers. For example, in one such email, Smith claimed that, in August 2016, KLS Research had organized meetings with parties who had access to the deleted Clinton emails, including parties with “ties and affiliations to Russia.”286 The investigation did not identify evidence that any such meetings occurred. Associates and security experts who worked with Smith on the initiative did not believe that Smith was in contact with Russian hackers and were aware of no such connection.287 The investigation did not establish that Smith was in contact with Russian hackers or that Smith, Ledeen, or other individuals in touch with the Trump Campaign ultimately obtained the deleted Clinton emails.* * *In sum, the investigation established that the GRU hacked into email accounts of persons affiliated with the Clinton Campaign, as well as the computers of the DNC and DCCC. The GRU then exfiltrated data related to the 2016 election from these accounts and computers, and disseminated that data through fictitious online personas (DCLeaks and Guccifer 2.0) and later through WikiLeaks. The investigation also established that the Trump Campaign displayed interest in the WikiLeaks releases, and that ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ As explained in Volume I, Section V.B, infra, the evidence was sufficient to support computer-intrusion (and other) charges against GRU officers for their role in election-related hacking. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■286 8/31/16 Email, Smith to Smith.287 Safron 3/20/18 302, at 3; Szobocsan 3/29/18 302, at 6.Vol. 1, Page 65The Office identified multiple contacts — “links,” in the words of the Appointment Order — between Trump Campaign officials and individuals with ties to the Russian government. The Office investigated whether those contacts constituted a third avenue of attempted Russian interference with or influence on the 2016 presidential election. In particular, the investigation examined whether these contacts involved or resulted in coordination or a conspiracy with the Trump Campaign and Russia, including with respect to Russia providing assistance to the Campaign in exchange for any sort of favorable treatment in the future. Based on the available information, the investigation did not establish such coordination.This Section describes the principal links between the Trump Campaign and individuals with ties to the Russian government, including some contacts with Campaign officials or associates that have been publicly reported to involve Russian contacts. Each subsection begins with an overview of the Russian contact at issue and then describes in detail the relevant facts, which are generally presented in chronological order, beginning with the early months of the Campaign and extending through the post-election, transition period.Russian-government-connected individuals and media entities began showing interest in Trump’s campaign in the months after he announced his candidacy in June 2015.288 Because Trump’s status as a public figure at the time was attributable in large part to his prior business and entertainment dealings, this Office investigated whether a business contact with Russia-linked individuals and entities during the campaign period — the Trump Tower Moscow project, see Volume I, Section IV.A.1, infra — led to or involved coordination of election assistance.Outreach from individuals with ties to Russia continued in the spring and summer of 2016, when Trump was moving toward — and eventually becoming — the Republican nominee for President. As set forth below, the Office also evaluated a series of links during this period: outreach to two of Trump’s then-recently named foreign policy advisors, including a representation that Russia had “dirt” on Clinton in the form of thousands of emails (Volume I, Sections IV.A.2 &amp; IV.A.3); dealings with a D.C.-based think tank that specializes in Russia and has connections with its government (Volume I, Section IV.A.4); a meeting at Trump Tower between the Campaign and a Russian lawyer promising dirt on candidate Clinton that was part of Russia and its government’s support for [Trump]” (Volume I, Section IV.A.5); events at the Republican National Convention (Volume I, Section IV.A.6); post-Convention contacts between Trump Campaign officials and Russia’s ambassador to the United States (Volume I, Section IV.A.7); and contacts through campaign chairman Paul Manafort, who had previously worked for a Russian oligarch and a pro-Russian political party in Ukraine (Volume 1, Section IV.A.8).288 For example, on August 18, 2015, on behalf of the editor-in-chief of the internet newspaper Vzglyad, Georgi Asatryan emailed campaign press secretary Hope Hicks asking for a phone or in-person candidate interview. 8/18/15 Email, Asatryan to Hicks. One day earlier, the publication’s founder (and former Russian parliamentarian) Konstantin Rykov had registered two Russian websites — Trump2016.ru and DonaldTrump2016.ru. No interview took place.Vol. 1, Page 66The Trump Organization has pursued and completed projects outside the United States as part of its real estate portfolio. Some projects have involved the acquisition and ownership (through subsidiary corporate structures) of property. In other cases, the Trump Organization has executed licensing deals with real estate developers and management companies, often local to the country where the project was located.289Between at least 2013 and 2016, the Trump Organization explored a similar licensing deal in Russia involving the construction of a Trump-branded property in Moscow. The project, commonly referred to as a “Trump Tower Moscow” or “Trump Moscow” project, anticipated a combination of commercial, hotel, and residential properties all within the same building. Between 2013 and June 2016, several employees of the Trump Organization, including then-president of the organization Donald J. Trump, pursued a Moscow deal with several Russian counterparties. From the fall of 2015 until the middle of 2016, Michael Cohen spearheaded the Trump Organization’s pursuit of a Trump Tower Moscow project, including by reporting on the project’s status to candidate Trump and other executives in the Trump Organization.290The Trump Organization and the Crocus Group, a Russian real estate conglomerate owned and controlled by Aras Agalarov, began discussing a Russia-based real estate project shortly after the conclusion of the 2013 Miss Universe pageant in Moscow.291 Donald J. Trump Jr. served as the primary negotiator on behalf of the Trump Organization; Emin Agalarov (son of Aras Agalarov) and Irakli “Ike” Kaveladze represented the Crocus Group during negotiations,292 with the occasional assistance of Robert Goldstone.293In December 2013, Kaveladze and Trump Jr. negotiated and signed preliminary terms of289 See, e.g., Interview of: Donald J. Trump, Jr, Senate Judiciary Committee, 115th Cong. 151-52 (Sept. 7, 2017) (discussing licensing deals of specific projects).290 As noted in Volume I, Section III.D.1, supra, in November 2018, Cohen pleaded guilty to making false statements to Congress concerning, among other things, the duration of the Trump Tower Moscow project. See Information 1 7(a), United States v. Michael Cohen, 1:18-cr-850 (S.D.N.Y. Nov. 29, 2018), Doc. 2 (“Cohen Information”).291 See Interview of: Donald J. Trump, Jr, Senate Judiciary Committee, 115th Cong. 13 (Sept. 7, 2017) ("Following the pageant the Trump Organization and Mr. Agalarov’s company, Crocus Group, began preliminarily discussion [sic] potential real estate projects in Moscow.”). As has been widely reported, the Miss Universe pageant — which Trump co-owned at the time — was held at the Agalarov-owned Crocus City Hall in Moscow in November 2013. Both groups were involved in organizing the pageant, and Aras Agalarov’s son Emin was a musical performer at the event, which Trump attended.292 Kaveladze 11/16/17 302, at 2, 4-6; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ OSC-KAV_00385 (12/6/13 Email, Trump Jr. to Kaveladze &amp; E. Agalarov).293 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Vol. 1, Page 67an agreement for the Trump Tower Moscow project.294 On December 23, 2013, after discussions with Donald J. Trump, the Trump Organization agreed to accept an arrangement whereby the organization received a flat 3.5% commission on all sales, with no licensing fees or incentives.295 The parties negotiated a letter of intent during January and February 2014.296From January 2014 through November 2014, the Trump Organization and Crocus Group discussed development plans for the Moscow project. Some time before January 24, 2014, the Crocus Group sent the Trump Organization a proposal for a 800-unit, 194-meter building to be constructed at an Agalarov-owned site in Moscow called “Crocus City,” which had also been the site of the Miss Universe pageant.297 In February 2014, Ivanka Trump met with Emin Agalarov and toured the Crocus City site during a visit to Moscow.298 From March 2014 through July 2014, the groups discussed “design standards” and other architectural elements.299 For example, in July 2014, members of the Trump Organization sent Crocus Group counterparties questions about the “demographics of these prospective buyers” in the Crocus City area, the development of neighboring parcels in Crocus City, and concepts for redesigning portions of the building.300 In August 2014, the Trump Organization requested specifications for a competing Marriott-branded tower being built in Crocus City.301Beginning in September 2014, the Trump Organization stopped responding in a timely fashion to correspondence and proposals from the Crocus Group.302 Communications between the two groups continued through November 2014 with decreasing frequency; what appears to be the last communication is dated November 24, 2014.303 The project appears not to have developed past the planning stage, and no construction occurred.294 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■295 OSC-KAV_00452 (12/23/13 Email, Trump Jr. to Kaveladze &amp; E. Agalarov).296 See, e.g., OSC-KAV_01158 (Letter agreement signed by Trump Jr. &amp; E. Agalarov); OSC-KAV_01147 (1/20/14 Email, Kaveladze to Trump Jr. et al.).297 See, e.g., OSC-KAV_00972 (10/14/14 Email, McGee to Khoo et al.) (email from Crocus Group contractor about specifications); OSC-KAV_00540 (1/24/14 Email, McGee to Trump Jr. et al.).298 See OSC-KAV 00631 (2/5/14 Email, E. Agalarov to Ivanka Trump, Trump Jr. &amp; Kaveladze); Goldstone Facebook post, 2/4/14 (8:01 a.m.) ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■299 See, e.g., OSC-KAV_00791 (6/3/14 Email, Kaveladze to Trump Jr. et al.; OSC-KAV_00799 (6/10/14 Email, Trump Jr. to Kaveladze et al.); OSC-KAV_00817 (6/16/14 Email, Trump Jr. to Kaveladze et al.).300 OSC-KAV_00870 (7/17/14 Email, Khoo to McGee et al.).301 OSC-KAV_00855 (8/4/14 Email, Khoo to McGee et al.).302 OSC-KAV_00903 (9/29/14 Email, Tropea to McGee &amp; Kaveladze (noting last response was on August 26, 2014)); OSC-KAV_00906 (9/29/14 Email, Kaveladze to Tropea &amp; McGee (suggesting silence “proves my fear that those guys are bailing out of the project”)); OSC-KAV_00972 (10/14/14 Email, McGee to Khoo et al.) (email from Crocus Group contractor about development specifications)).303 OSC-KAV 01140 (11/24/14 Email, Khoo to McGee et al.).Vol. 1, Page 68In the late summer of 2015, the Trump Organization received a new inquiry about pursuing a Trump Tower project in Moscow. In approximately September 2015, Felix Sater, a New York-based real estate advisor, contacted Michael Cohen, then-executive vice president of the Trump Organization and special counsel to Donald J. Trump.304 Sater had previously worked with the Trump Organization and advised it on a number of domestic and international projects. Sater had explored the possibility of a Trump Tower project in Moscow while working with the Trump Organization and therefore knew of the organization’s general interest in completing a deal there.305 Sater had also served as an informal agent of the Trump Organization in Moscow previously and had accompanied Ivanka Trump and Donald Trump Jr. to Moscow in the mid-2000s.306 Sater contacted Cohen on behalf of I.C. Expert Investment Company (I.C. Expert), a Russian real-estate development corporation controlled by Andrei Vladimirovich Rozov.307 Sater had known Rozov since approximately 2007 and, in 2014, had served as an agent on behalf of Rozov during Rozov’s purchase of a building in New York City.308 Sater later contacted Rozov and proposed that I.C. Expert pursue a Trump Tower Moscow project in which I.C. Expert would license the name and brand from the Trump Organization but construct the building on its own. Sater worked on the deal with Rozov and another employee of I.C. Expert.309 Cohen was the only Trump Organization representative to negotiate directly with I.C. Expert or its agents. In approximately September 2015, Cohen obtained approval to negotiate with I.C. Expert from candidate Trump, who was then president of the Trump Organization. Cohen provided updates directly to Trump about the project throughout 2015 and into 2016, assuring him the project was continuing.310 Cohen also discussed the Trump Moscow project with Ivanka Trump as to design elements (such as possible architects to use for the project311) and Donald J. Trump Jr. (about his experience in Moscow and possible involvement in the project312) during the fall of 2015.304 Sater provided information to our Office in two 2017 interviews conducted under a proffer agreement ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■305 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■306 Sater 9/19/17 302, at 1-2,5.307 Sater 9/19/17 302, at 3.308 Rozov 1/25/18 302, at 1.309 Rozov 1/25/18 302, at 1; see also 11/2/15 Email, Cohen to Rozov et al. (sending letter of intent).310 Cohen 9/12/18 302, at 1-2, 4-6.311 Cohen 9/12/18 302, at 5.312 Cohen 9/12/18 302, at 4-5.Vol. 1, Page 69Also during the fall of 2015, Cohen communicated about the Trump Moscow proposal with Giorgi Rtskhiladze, a business executive who previously had been involved in a development deal with the Trump Organization in Batumi, Georgia.313 Cohen stated that he spoke to Rtskhiladze in part because Rtskhiladze had pursued business ventures in Moscow, including a licensing deal with the Agalarov-owned Crocus Group.314 On September 22, 2015, Cohen forwarded a preliminary design study for the Trump Moscow project to Rtskhiladze, adding “I look forward to your reply about this spectacular project in Moscow.” Rtskhiladze forwarded Cohen’s email to an associate and wrote, “[i]f we could organize the meeting in New York at the highest level of the Russian Government and Mr. Trump this project would definitely receive the worldwide attention."315On September 24, 2015, Rtskhiladze sent Cohen an attachment that he described as a proposed “[l]etter to the Mayor of Moscow from Trump org,” explaining that “[w]e need to send this letter to the Mayor of Moscow (second guy in Russia) he is aware of the potential project and will pledge his support."316 In a second email to Cohen sent the same day, Rtskhiladze provided a translation of the letter, which described the Trump Moscow project as a “symbol of stronger economic, business and cultural relationships between New York and Moscow and therefore United States and the Russian Federation."317 On September 27, 2015, Rtskhiladze sent another email to Cohen, proposing that the Trump Organization partner on the Trump Moscow project with “Global Development Group LLC,” which he described as being controlled by Michail Posikhin, a Russian architect, and Simon Nizharadze.318 Cohen told the Office that he ultimately declined the proposal and instead continued to work with I.C. Expert, the company represented by Felix Sater.319Between approximately October 13, 2015 and November 2, 2015, the Trump Organization (through its subsidiary Trump Acquisition, LLC) and I.C. Expert completed a letter of intent (LOI) for a Trump Moscow property. The LOI, signed by Trump for the Trump Organization and Rozov on behalf of I.C. Expert, was “intended to facilitate further discussions” in order to “attempt to313 Rtskhiladze was a U.S.-based executive of the Georgian company Silk Road Group. In approximately 2011, Silk Road Group and the Trump Organization entered into a licensing agreement to build a Trump-branded property in Batumi, Georgia. Rtskhiladze was also involved in discussions for a Trump-branded project in Astana, Kazakhstan. The Office twice interviewed Rtskhiladze, ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■314 Cohen 9/12/18 302, at 12; see also Rtskhiladze 5/10/18 302, at 1.315 9/22/15 Email, Rtskhiladze to Nizharadze.316 9/24/15 Email, Rtskhiladze to Cohen.317 9/24/15 Email, Rtskhiladze to Cohen.318 9/27/15 Email, Rtskhiladze to Cohen.319 Cohen 9/12/18 302, at 12.Vol. 1, Page 70enter into a mutually acceptable agreement” related to the Trump-branded project in Moscow.320 The LOI contemplated a development with residential, hotel, commercial, and office components, and called for “[a]pproximately 250 first class, luxury residential condominiums,” as well as “[o]ne first class, luxury hotel consisting of approximately 15 floors and containing not fewer than 150 hotel rooms."321 For the residential and commercial portions of the project, the Trump Organization would receive between 1% and 5% of all condominium sales,322 plus 3% of all rental and other revenue.323 For the project’s hotel portion, the Trump Organization would receive a base fee of 3% of gross operating revenues for the first five years and 4% thereafter, plus a separate incentive fee of 20% of operating profit.324 Under the LOI, the Trump Organization also would receive a $4 million “up-front fee” prior to groundbreaking.325 Under these terms, the Trump Organization stood to earn substantial sums over the lifetime of the project, without assuming significant liabilities or financing commitments.326On November 3, 2015, the day after the Trump Organization transmitted the LOI, Sater emailed Cohen suggesting that the Trump Moscow project could be used to increase candidate Trump’s chances at being elected, writing:Later that day, Sater followed up:320 11/2/15 Email, Cohen to Rozov et al. (attachment) (hereinafter “LOI”); see also 10/13/15 Email, Sater to Cohen &amp; Davis (attaching proposed letter of intent).321 LOI, p. 2.322 The LOI called for the Trump Organization to receive 5% of all gross sales up to $100 million; 4% of all gross sales from $100 million to $250 million; 3% of all gross sales from $250 million to $500 million; 2% of all gross sales from $500 million to $1 billion; and 1% of all gross sales over $1 billion. LOI, Schedule 2.323 LOI, Schedule 2.324 LOI, Schedule 1.325 LOI, Schedule 2.326 Cohen 9/12/18 302, at 3.327 11/3/15 Email, Sater to Cohen (12:14 p.m.).Vol. 1, Page 71According to Cohen, he did not consider the political import of the Trump Moscow project to the 2016 U.S. presidential election at the time. Cohen also did not recall candidate Trump or anyone affiliated with the Trump Campaign discussing the political implications of the Trump Moscow project with him. However, Cohen recalled conversations with Trump in which the candidate suggested that his campaign would be a significant “infomercial” for Trump-branded properties.329Given the size of the Trump Moscow project, Sater and Cohen believed the project required approval (whether express or implicit) from the Russian national government, including from the Presidential Administration of Russia.330 Sater stated that he therefore began to contact the Presidential Administration through another Russian business contact.331 In early negotiations with the Trump Organization, Sater had alluded to the need for government approval and his attempts to set up meetings with Russian officials. On October 12, 2015, for example, Sater wrote to Cohen that “all we need is Putin on board and we are golden,” and that a “meeting with Putin and top deputy is tentatively set for the 14th [of October]."332 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ was being coordinated by associates in Russia and that he had no direct interaction with the Russian government.333Approximately a month later, after the LOI had been signed, Lana Erchova emailed Ivanka Trump on behalf of Erchova’s then-husband Dmitry Klokov, to offer Klokov’s assistance to the Trump Campaign.334 Klokov was at that time Director of External Communications for PJSC Federal Grid Company of Unified Energy System, a large Russian electricity transmission328 11/3/15 Email, Sater to Cohen (12:40 p.m.).329 Cohen 9/12/18 302, at 3-4; Cohen 8/7/18 302, at 15.330 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ Sater 12/15/17 302, at 2.331 Sater 12/15/17 302, at 3-4.332 10/12/15 Email, Sater to Cohen (8:07 a.m.).333 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■334 Ivanka Trump received an email from a woman who identified herself as “Lana E. Alexander,” which said in part, “If you ask anyone who knows Russian to google my husband Dmitry Klokov, you’ll see who he is close to and that he has done Putin’s political campaigns.” 11/16/15 Email, Erchova to I. Trump.Vol. 1, Page 72company, and had been previously employed as an aide and press secretary to Russia’s energy minister. Ivanka Trump forwarded the email to Cohen.335 He told the Office that, after receiving this inquiry, he had conducted an internet search for Klokov’s name and concluded (incorrectly) that Klokov was a former Olympic weightlifter.336Between November 18 and 19, 2015, Klokov and Cohen had at least one telephone call and exchanged several emails. Describing himself in emails to Cohen as a “trusted person” who could offer the Campaign “political synergy” and “synergy on a government level,” Klokov recommended that Cohen travel to Russia to speak with him and an unidentified intermediary. Klokov said that those conversations could facilitate a later meeting in Russia between the candidate and an individual Klokov described as “our person of interest."337 In an email to the Office, Erchova later identified the “person of interest as Russian President Vladimir Putin.338 In the telephone call and follow-on emails with Klokov, Cohen discussed his desire to use a near-term trip to Russia to do site surveys and talk over the Trump Moscow project with local developers. Cohen registered his willingness also to meet with Klokov and the unidentified intermediary, but was emphatic that all meetings in Russia involving him or candidate Trump including a possible meeting between candidate Trump and Putin — would need to be “in conjunction with the development and an official visit” with the Trump Organization receiving a formal invitation to visit.339 (Klokov had written previously that “the visit [by candidate Trump to Russia] has to be informal.")340Klokov had also previously recommended to Cohen that he separate their negotiations over a possible meeting between Trump and “the person of interest” from any existing business track.341 Re-emphasizing that his outreach was not done on behalf of any business, Klokov added in second email to Cohen that, if publicized well, such a meeting could have “phenomenal” impact “in a business dimension” and that the “person of interest[’s]” “most important support” could have significant ramifications for the “level of projects and their capacity.” Klokov concluded by telling335 11/16/15 Email, I. Trump to Cohen.336 Cohen 8/7/18 302, at 17. During his interviews with the Office, Cohen still appeared to believe that the Klokov he spoke with was that Olympian. The investigation, however, established that the email address used to communicate with Cohen belongs to a different Dmitry Klokov, as described above.337 11/18/15 Email, Klokov to Cohen (6:51 a.m.).338 In July 2018, the Office received an unsolicited email purporting to be from Erchova, in which she wrote that “[a]t the end of 2015 and beginning of 2016 I was asked by my ex-husband to contact Ivanka Trump ... and offer cooperation to Trump’s team on behalf of the Russian officials.” 7/27/18 Email, Erchova to Special Counsel’s Office. The email claimed that the officials wanted to offer candidate Trump “land in Crimea among other things and unofficial meeting with Putin.” Id. In order to vet the email’s claims, the Office responded requesting more details. The Office did not receive any reply.339 11/18/15 Email, Cohen to Klokov (7:15 a.m.).340 11/18/15 Email, Klokov to Cohen (6:51 a.m.).341 11/18/15 Email, Klokov to Cohen (6:51 a.m.) (“I would suggest separating your negotiations and our proposal to meet. I assure you, after the meeting level of projects and their capacity can be completely different, having the most important support.").Vol. 1, Page 73Cohen that there was “no bigger warranty in any project than [the] consent of the person of interest."342 Cohen rejected the proposal, saying that “[C]urrently our LOI developer is in talks with VP’s Chief of Staff and arranging a formal invite for the two to meet."343 This email appears to be their final exchange, and the investigation did not identify evidence that Cohen brought Klokov’s initial offer of assistance to the Campaign’s attention or that anyone associated with the Trump Organization or the Campaign dealt with Klokov at a later date. Cohen explained that he did not pursue the proposed meeting because he was already working on the Moscow Project with Sater, who Cohen understood to have his own connections to the Russian government.344By late December 2015, however, Cohen was complaining that Sater had not been able to use those connections to set up the promised meeting with Russian government officials. Cohen told Sater that he was “setting up the meeting myself."345 On January 11, 2016, Cohen emailed the office of Dmitry Peskov, the Russian government’s press secretary, indicating that he desired contact with Sergei Ivanov, Putin’s chief of staff. Cohen erroneously used the email address “Pr_peskova@prpress.gof.ru” instead of “Pr_peskova@prpress.gov.ru,” so the email apparently did not go through.346 On January 14, 2016, Cohen emailed a different address (info@prpress.gov.ru) with the following message:Two days later, Cohen sent an email to Pr_peskova@prpress.gov.ru, repeating his request to speak with Sergei Ivanov.348Cohen testified to Congress, and initially told the Office, that he did not recall receiving a response to this email inquiry and that he decided to terminate any further work on the Trump Moscow project as of January 2016. Cohen later admitted that these statements were false. In342 11/19/15 Email, Klokov to Cohen (7:40 a.m.).343 11/19/15 Email, Cohen to Klokov (12:56 p.m.).344 Cohen 9/18/18 302, at 12.345 FS00004 (12/30/15 Text Message, Cohen to Sater (6:17 p.m.)).346 1/11/16 Email, Cohen to pr_peskova@prpress.gof.ru (9:12 a.m.).347 1/14/16 Email, Cohen to info@prpress.gov.ru (9:21 a.m.).348 1/16/16 Email, Cohen to pr_peskova@prpress.gov.ru (10:28 a.m.).Vol. 1, Page 74fact, Cohen had received (and recalled receiving) a response to his inquiry, and he continued to work on and update candidate Trump on the project through as late as June 2016.349On January 20, 2016, Cohen received an email from Elena Poliakova, Peskov’s personal assistant. Writing from her personal email account, Poliakova stated that she had been trying to reach Cohen and asked that he call her on the personal number that she provided.350 Shortly after receiving Poliakova’s email, Cohen called and spoke to her for 20 minutes.351 Cohen described to Poliakova his position at the Trump Organization and outlined the proposed Trump Moscow project, including information about the Russian counterparty with which the Trump Organization had partnered. Cohen requested assistance in moving the project forward, both in securing land to build the project and with financing. According to Cohen, Poliakova asked detailed questions and took notes, stating that she would need to follow up with others in Russia.352Cohen could not recall any direct follow-up from Poliakova or from any other representative of the Russian government, nor did the Office identify any evidence of direct follow-up. However, the day after Cohen’s call with Poliakova, Sater texted Cohen, asking him to “[c]all me when you have a few minutes to chat ... It’s about Putin they called today."353 Sater then sent a draft invitation for Cohen to visit Moscow to discuss the Trump Moscow project,354 along with a note to “[t]ell me if the letter is good as amended by me or make whatever changes you want and send it back to me."355 After a further round of edits, on January 25, 2016, Sater sent Cohen an invitation — signed by Andrey Ryabinskiy of the company MHJ — to travel to “Moscow for a working visit about the “prospects of development and the construction business in Russia,” “the various land plots available suited for construction of this enormous Tower,” and “the opportunity to co-ordinate a follow up visit to Moscow by Mr. Donald Trump."356 According349 Cohen Information ¶¶ 4, 7. Cohen’s interactions with President Trump and the President’s lawyers when preparing his congressional testimony are discussed further in Volume II. See Vol. II, Section II.K.3, infra.350 1/20/16 Email, Poliakova to Cohen (5:57 a.m.) (“Mr. Cohen[,] I can’t get through to both your phones. Pls, call me.").351 Telephone records show a 20-minute call on January 20, 2016 between Cohen and the number Poliakova provided in her email. Call Records of Michael Cohen ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ After the call, Cohen saved Poliakova’s contact information in his Trump Organization Outlook contact list. 1/20/16 Cohen Microsoft Outlook Entry (6:22 a.m.).352 Cohen 9/12/18 302, at 2-3.353 FS00011 (1/21/16 Text Messages, Sater to Cohen).354 The invitation purported to be from Genbank, a Russian bank that was, according to Sater, working at the behest of a larger bank, VTB, and would consider providing financing. FS00008 (12/31/15 Text Messages, Sater &amp; Cohen). Additional information about Genbank can be found infra.355 FS00011 (1/21/16 Text Message, Sater to Cohen (7:44 p.m.)); 1/21/16 Email, Sater to Cohen (6:49 p.m.).356 1/25/16 Email, Sater to Cohen (12:01 p.m.) (attachment).Vol. 1, Page 75to Cohen, he elected not to travel at the time because of concerns about the lack of concrete proposals about land plots that could be considered as options for the project.357The late January communication was neither the first nor the last time that Cohen contemplated visiting Russia in pursuit of the Trump Moscow project. Beginning in late 2015, Sater repeatedly tried to arrange for Cohen and candidate Trump, as representatives of the Trump Organization, to travel to Russia to meet with Russian government officials and possible financing partners. In December 2015, Sater sent Cohen a number of emails about logistics for traveling to Russia for meetings.358 On December 19, 2015, Sater wrote:In response, Cohen texted Sater an image of his own passport.361 Cohen told the Office that at one point he requested a copy of candidate Trump’s passport from Rhona Graff, Trump’s executive assistant at the Trump Organization, and that Graff later brought Trump’s passport to Cohen’s357 Cohen 9/12/18 302, at 6-7.358 See, e.g., 12/1/15 Email, Sater to Cohen (12:41 p.m.) ("Please scan and send me a copy of your passport for the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs.").359 Toll records show that Sater was speaking to Evgeny Dvoskin. Call Records of Felix Sater ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ Dvoskin is an executive of Genbank, a large bank with lending focused in Crimea, Ukraine. At the time that Sater provided this financing letter to Cohen, Genbank was subject to U.S. government sanctions, see Russia/Ukraine-related Sanctions and Identifications, Office of Foreign Assets Control (Dec. 22, 2015), available at https://www.treasury.gov/resource-center/sanctions/OFAC-Enforcement/Pages/20151222.aspx. Dvoskin, who had been deported from the United States in 2000 for criminal activity, was under indictment in the United States for stock fraud under the aliases Eugene Slusker and Gene Shustar. See United States v. Rizzo, et al., 2:03-cr-63 (E.D.N.Y. Feb. 6, 2003).360 12/19/15 Email, Sater to Cohen (10:50 a.m.); FS00002 (12/19/15 Text Messages, Sater to Cohen, (10:53 a.m.).361 FS00004 (12/19/15 Text Message, Cohen to Sater); ERT_0198-256 (12/19/15 Text Messages, Cohen &amp; Sater).Vol. 1, Page 76office.362 The investigation did not, however, establish that the passport was forwarded to Sater.363Into the spring of 2016, Sater and Cohen continued to discuss a trip to Moscow in connection with the Trump Moscow project. On April 20, 2016, Sater wrote Cohen, “[t]he People wanted to know when you are coming?”364 On May 4, 2016, Sater followed up:Cohen responded, “My trip before Cleveland. Trump once he becomes the nominee after the convention."366The day after this exchange, Sater tied Cohen’s travel to Russia to the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum (“Forum”), an annual event attended by prominent Russian politicians and businessmen. Sater told the Office that he was informed by a business associate that Peskov wanted to invite Cohen to the Forum.367 On May 5, 2016, Sater wrote to Cohen:The following day, Sater asked Cohen to confirm those dates would work for him to travel; Cohen wrote back, “[w]orks for me."369362 Cohen 9/12/18 302, at 5.363 On December 21, 2015, Sater sent Cohen a text message that read, “They need a copy of DJT passport,” to which Cohen responded, “After I return from Moscow with you with a date for him.” FS00004 (12/21/15 Text Messages, Cohen &amp; Sater).364 FS00014 (4/20/16 Text Message, Sater to Cohen (9:06 p.m.)).365 FS00015 (5/4/16 Text Message, Sater to Cohen (7:38 p.m.)).366 FS00015 (5/4/16 Text Message, Cohen to Sater (8:03 p.m.)).367 Sater 12/15/17 302, at 4.368 FS00016 (5/5/16 Text Messages, Sater to Cohen (6:26 &amp; 6:27 a.m.)).369 FS00016 (5/6/16 Text Messages, Cohen &amp; Sater).Vol. 1, Page 77On June 9, 2016, Sater sent Cohen a notice that he (Sater) was completing the badges for the Forum, adding, “Putin is there on the 17th very strong chance you will meet him as well.370 On June 13, 2016, Sater forwarded Cohen an invitation to the Forum signed by the Director of the Roscongress Foundation, the Russian entity organizing the Forum.371 Sater also sent Cohen a Russian visa application and asked him to send two passport photos.372 According to Cohen, the invitation gave no indication that Peskov had been involved in inviting him. Cohen was concerned that Russian officials were not actually involved or were not interested in meeting with him (as Sater had alleged), and so he decided not to go to the Forum.373 On June 14, 2016, Cohen met Sater in the lobby of the Trump Tower in New York and informed him that he would not be traveling at that time.374The investigation identified evidence that, during the period the Trump Moscow project was under consideration, the possibility of candidate Trump visiting Russia arose in two contexts.First, in interviews with the Office, Cohen stated that he discussed the subject of traveling to Russia with Trump twice: once in late 2015; and again in spring 2016.375 According to Cohen, Trump indicated a willingness to travel if it would assist the project significantly. On one occasion, Trump told Cohen to speak with then-campaign manager Corey Lewandowski to coordinate the candidate’s schedule. Cohen recalled that he spoke with Lewandowski, who suggested that they speak again when Cohen had actual dates to evaluate. Cohen indicated, however, that he knew that travel prior to the Republican National Convention would be impossible given the candidate’s preexisting commitments to the Campaign.376Second, like Cohen, Trump received and turned down an invitation to the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum. In late December 2015, Mira Duma — a contact of Ivanka Trump’s from the fashion industry — first passed along invitations for Ivanka Trump and candidate Trump from Sergei Prikhodko, a Deputy Prime Minister of the Russian Federation.377 On January 14, 2016, Rhona Graff sent an email to Duma stating that Trump was “honored to be asked to participate in the highly prestigious” Forum event, but that he would “have to decline” the invitation given his “very grueling and full travel schedule” as a presidential candidate.378 Graff370 FS00018 (6/9/16 Text Messages, Sater &amp; Cohen).371 6/13/16 Email, Sater to Cohen (2:10 p.m.).372 FS00018 (6/13/16 Text Message, Sater to Cohen (2:20 p.m.)); 6/13/16 Email, Sater to Cohen.373 Cohen 9/12/18 302, at 6-8.374 FS00019 (6/14/16 Text Messages, Cohen &amp; Sater (12:06 and 2:50 p.m.)).375 Cohen 9/12/18 302, at 2.376 Cohen 9/12/18 302, at 7.377 12/21/15 Email, Mira to Ivanka Trump (6:57 a.m.) (attachments); TRUMPORG_16_000057 (1/7/16 Email, I. Trump to Graff (9:18 a.m.)).378 1/14/16 Email, Graff to Mira.Vol. 1, Page 78asked Duma whether she recommended that Graff “send a formal note to the Deputy Prime Minister” declining his invitation; Duma replied that a formal note would be “great."379It does not appear that Graff prepared that note immediately. According to written answers from President Trump,380 Graff received an email from Deputy Prime Minister Prikhodko on March 17, 2016, again inviting Trump to participate in the 2016 Forum in St. Petersburg.381 Two weeks later, on March 31, 2016, Graff prepared for Trump’s signature a two-paragraph letter declining the invitation.382 The letter stated that Trump’s “schedule has become extremely demanding” because of the presidential campaign, that he “already ha[d] several commitments in the United States” for the time of the Forum, but that he otherwise “would have gladly given every consideration to attending such an important event."383 Graff forwarded the letter to another executive assistant at the Trump Organization with instructions to print the document on letterhead for Trump to sign.384At approximately the same time that the letter was being prepared, Robert Foresman — a New York-based investment banker — began reaching out to Graff to secure an in-person meeting with candidate Trump. According to Foresman, he had been asked by Anton Kobyakov, a Russian presidential aide involved with the Roscongress Foundation, to see if Trump could speak at the Forum.385 Foresman first emailed Graff on March 31, 2016, following a phone introduction brokered through Trump business associate Mark Burnett (who produced the television show The Apprentice). In his email, Foresman referenced his long-standing personal and professional expertise in Russia and Ukraine, his work setting up an early “private channel between Vladimir Putin and former U.S. President George W. Bush, and an approach” he had received from “senior Kremlin officials” about the candidate. Foresman asked Graff for a meeting with the candidate, Corey Lewandowski, or “another relevant person” to discuss this and other “concrete things” Foresman felt uncomfortable discussing over “unsecure email."386 On April 4, 2016, Graff forwarded Foresman’s meeting request to Jessica Macchia, another executive assistant to Trump.387379 1/15/16 Email, Mira to Graff.380 As explained in Volume II and Appendix C, on September 17, 2018, the Office sent written questions to the President’s counsel. On November 20, 2018, the President provided written answers to those questions through counsel.381 Written Responses of Donald J. Trump (Nov. 20, 2018), at 17 (Response to Question IV, Part (e)) (“[D]ocuments show that Ms. Graff prepared for my signature a brief response declining the invitation.").382 Written Responses of Donald J. Trump (Nov. 20, 2018), at 17 (Response to Question IV, Part (e)); see also TRUMPORG_16_000134 (unsigned letter dated March 31, 2016).383 TRUMPORG_16_000134 (unsigned letter).384 TRUMPORG_16_000133 (3/31/16 Email, Graff to Macchia).385 Foresman 10/17/18 302, at 3-4.386 See TRUMPORG_16_00136 (3/31/16 Email, Foresman to Graff); see also Foresman 10/17/18 302, at 3-4.387 See TRUMPORG_16_00136 (4/4/16 Email, Graff to Macchia).Vol. 1, Page 79With no response forthcoming, Foresman twice sent reminders to Graff — first on April 26 and again on April 30, 2016.388 Graff sent an apology to Foresman and forwarded his April 26 email (as well as his initial March 2016 email) to Lewandowski.389 On May 2, 2016, Graff forwarded Foresman’s April 30 email — which suggested an alternative meeting with Donald Trump Jr. or Eric Trump so that Foresman could convey to them information that should be conveyed to [the candidate] personally or [to] someone [the candidate] absolutely trusts” — to policy advisor Stephen Miller.390No communications or other evidence obtained by the Office indicate that the Trump Campaign learned that Foresman was reaching out to invite the candidate to the Forum or that the Campaign otherwise followed up with Foresman until after the election, when he interacted with the Transition Team as he pursued a possible position in the incoming Administration.391 When interviewed by the Office, Foresman denied that the specific “approach” from “senior Kremlin officials” noted in his March 31, 2016 email was anything other than Kobyakov’s invitation to Roscongress. According to Foresman, the “concrete things” he referenced in the same email were a combination of the invitation itself, Foresman’s personal perspectives on the invitation and Russia policy in general, and details of a Ukraine plan supported by a U.S. think tank (EastWest Institute). Foresman told the Office that Kobyakov had extended similar invitations through him to another Republican presidential candidate and one other politician. Foresman also said that Kobyakov had asked Foresman to invite Trump to speak after that other presidential candidate withdrew from the race and the other politician’s participation did not work out.392 Finally, Foresman claimed to have no plans to establish a back channel involving Trump, stating the reference to his involvement in the Bush-Putin back channel was meant to burnish his credentials to the Campaign. Foresman commented that he had not recognized any of the experts announced as Trump’s foreign policy team in March 2016, and wanted to secure an in-person meeting with the candidate to share his professional background and policy views, including that Trump should decline Kobyakov’s invitation to speak at the Forum.393George Papadopoulos was a foreign policy advisor to the Trump Campaign from March388 See TRUMPORG_16_00137 (4/26/16 Email, Foresman to Graff); TRUMPORG_16_00141 (4/30/16 Email, Foresman to Graff).389 See TRUMPORG_16_00139 (4/27/16 Email, Graff to Foresman); TRUMPORG_16_00137 (4/27/16 Email, Graff to Lewandowski).390 TRUMPORG_16_00142 (5/2/16 Email, Graff to S. Miller); see also TRUMPORG_16_00143 (5/2/16 Email, Graff to S. Miller) (forwarding March 2016 email from Foresman).391 Foresman’s contacts during the transition period are discussed further in Volume I, Section IV.B.3, infra.392 Foresman 10/17/18 302, at 4.393 Foresman 10/17/18 302, at 8-9.Vol. 1, Page 802016 to early October 2016.394 In late April 2016, Papadopoulos was told by London-based professor Joseph Mifsud, immediately after Mifsud’s return from a trip to Moscow, that the Russian government had obtained “dirt” on candidate Clinton in the form of thousands of emails. One week later, on May 6, 2016, Papadopoulos suggested to a representative of a foreign government that the Trump Campaign had received indications from the Russian government that it could assist the Campaign through the anonymous release of information that would be damaging to candidate Clinton.Papadopoulos shared information about Russian “dirt” with people outside of the Campaign, and the Office investigated whether he also provided it to a Campaign official. Papadopoulos and the Campaign officials with whom he interacted told the Office that they did not recall that Papadopoulos passed them the information. Throughout the relevant period of time and for several months thereafter, Papadopoulos worked with Mifsud and two Russian nationals to arrange a meeting between the Campaign and the Russian government. That meeting never came to pass.In March 2016, Papadopoulos became a foreign policy advisor to the Trump Campaign.395 As early as the summer of 2015, he had sought a role as a policy advisor to the Campaign but, in a September 30, 2015 email, he was told that the Campaign was not hiring policy advisors.396 In late 2015, Papadopoulos obtained a paid position on the campaign of Republican presidential candidate Ben Carson.397Although Carson remained in the presidential race until early March 2016, Papadopoulos had stopped actively working for his campaign by early February 2016.398 At that time, Papadopoulos reached out to a contact at the London Centre of International Law Practice (LCILP), which billed itself as a “unique institution ... comprising high-level professional international law practitioners, dedicated to the advancement of global legal knowledge and the practice of international law."399 Papadopoulos said that he had finished his role with the Carson394 Papadopoulos met with our Office for debriefings on several occasions in the summer and fall of 2017, after he was arrested and charged in a sealed criminal complaint with making false statements in a January 2017 FBI interview about, inter alia, the timing, extent, and nature of his interactions and communications with Joseph Mifsud and two Russian nationals: Olga Polonskaya and Ivan Timofeev. Papadopoulos later pleaded guilty, pursuant to a plea agreement, to an information charging him with making false statements to the FBI, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1001(a).395 A Transcript of Donald Trump’s Meeting with the Washington Post Editorial Board, Washington Post (Mar. 21, 2016).396 7/15/15 LinkedIn Message, Papadopoulos to Lewandowski (6:57 a.m.); 9/30/15 Email, Glassner to Papadopoulos (7:42:21 a.m.).397 Papadopoulos 8/10/17 302, at 2.398 Papadopoulos 8/10/17 302, at 2; 2/4/16 Email, Papadopoulos to Idris.399 London Centre of International Law Practice, at https://www.lcilp.org/ (via web.archive.org).Vol. 1, Page 81campaign and asked if LCILP was hiring.400 In early February, Papadopoulos agreed to join LCILP and arrived in London to begin work.401As he was taking his position at LCILP, Papadopoulos contacted Trump campaign manager Corey Lewandowski via LinkedIn and emailed campaign official Michael Glassner about his interest in joining the Trump Campaign.402 On March 2, 2016, Papadopoulos sent Glassner another message reiterating his interest.403 Glassner passed along word of Papadopoulos’s interest to another campaign official, Joy Lutes, who notified Papadopoulos by email that she had been told by Glassner to introduce Papadopoulos to Sam Clovis, the Trump Campaign’s national co-chair and chief policy advisor.404At the time of Papadopoulos’s March 2 email, the media was criticizing the Trump Campaign for lack of experienced foreign policy or national security advisors within its ranks.405 To address that issue, senior Campaign officials asked Clovis to put a foreign policy team together on short notice.406 After receiving Papadopoulos’s name from Lutes, Clovis performed a Google search on Papadopoulos, learned that he had worked at the Hudson Institute, and believed that he had credibility on energy issues.407 On March 3, 2016, Clovis arranged to speak with Papadopoulos by phone to discuss Papadopoulos joining the Campaign as a foreign policy advisor, and on March 6, 2016, the two spoke.408 Papadopoulos recalled that Russia was mentioned as a topic, and he understood from the conversation that Russia would be an important aspect of the Campaign’s foreign policy.409 At the end of the conversation, Clovis offered Papadopoulos a role as a foreign policy advisor to the Campaign, and Papadopoulos accepted the offer.410Approximately a week after signing on as a foreign policy advisor, Papadopoulos traveled400 2/4/16 Email, Papadopoulos to Idris.401 2/5/16 Email, Idris to Papadopoulos (6:11:25 p.m.); 2/6/16 Email, Idris to Papadopoulos (5:34:15 p.m.).402 2/4/16 LinkedIn Message, Papadopoulos to Lewandowski (1:28 p.m.); 2/4/16 Email, Papadopoulos to Glassner (2:10:36 p.m.).403 3/2/16 Email, Papadopoulos to Glassner (11:17:23 a.m.).404 3/2/16 Email, Lutes to Papadopoulos (10:08:15 p.m.).405 Clovis 10/3/17 302 (1 of 2), at 4.406 Clovis 10/3/17 302 (1 of 2), at 4.407 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■; 3/3/16 Email, Lutes to Clovis &amp; Papadopoulos (6:05:47 p.m.).408 3/6/16 Email, Papadopoulos to Clovis (4:24:21 p.m.).409 Statement of Offense ¶ 4, United States v. George Papadopoulos, 1:17-cr-182 (D.D.C. Oct. 5, 2017), Doc. 19 (“Papadopoulos Statement of Offense").410 Papadopoulos 8/10/17 302, at 2.Vol. 1, Page 82to Rome, Italy, as part of his duties with LCILP.411 The purpose of the trip was to meet officials affiliated with Link Campus University, a for-profit institution headed by a former Italian government official.412 During the visit, Papadopoulos was introduced to Joseph Mifsud.Mifsud is a Maltese national who worked as a professor at the London Academy of Diplomacy in London, England.413 Although Mifsud worked out of London and was also affiliated with LCILP, the encounter in Rome was the first time that Papadopoulos met him.414 Mifsud maintained various Russian contacts while living in London, as described further below. Among his contacts was ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■,415 a one-time employee of the IRA, the entity that carried out the Russian social media campaign (see Volume 1, Section II, supra). In January and February 2016, Mifsud and ■■■■■■■■■ discussed ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ possibly meeting in Russia. The investigation did not identify evidence of them meeting. Later, in the spring of 2016, ■■■■■■■■■ was also in contact ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ that was linked to an employee of the Russian Ministry of Defense, and that account had overlapping contacts with a group of Russian military-controlled Facebook accounts that included accounts used to promote the DCLeaks releases in the course of the GRU’s hack-and-release operations (see Volume I, Section III.B.1, supra).According to Papadopoulos, Mifsud at first seemed uninterested in Papadopoulos when they met in Rome.416 After Papadopoulos informed Mifsud about his role in the Trump Campaign, however, Mifsud appeared to take greater interest in Papadopoulos.417 The two discussed Mifsud’s European and Russian contacts and had a general discussion about Russia; Mifsud also offered to introduce Papadopoulos to European leaders and others with contacts to the Russian government.418 Papadopoulos told the Office that Mifsud’s claim of substantial connections with Russian government officials interested Papadopoulos, who thought that such connections could increase his importance as a policy advisor to the Trump Campaign.419411 Papadopoulos 8/10/17 302, at 2-3; Papadopoulos Statement of Offense 15.412 Papadopoulos 8/10/17 302, at 2-3; Stephanie Kirchgaessner et al., Joseph Mifsud: more questions than answers about mystery professor linked to Russia, The Guardian (Oct. 31, 2017) (“Link Campus University ... is headed by a former Italian interior minister named Vincenzo Scotti.").413 Papadopoulos Statement of Offense 5.414 Papadopoulos 8/10/17 302, at 3.415 See, e.g., ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■416 Papadopoulos Statement of Offense ¶5.417 Papadopoulos Statement of Offense ¶5.418 Papadopoulos 8/10/17 302, at 3; Papadopoulos 8/11/17 302, at 2.419 Papadopoulos Statement of Offense ¶5.Vol. 1, Page 83On March 17, 2016, Papadopoulos returned to London.420 Four days later, candidate Trump publicly named him as a member of the foreign policy and national security advisory team chaired by Senator Jeff Sessions, describing Papadopoulos as “an oil and energy consultant” and an “[e]xcellent guy."421On March 24, 2016, Papadopoulos met with Mifsud in London.422 Mifsud was accompanied by a Russian female named Olga Polonskaya. Mifsud introduced Polonskaya as a former student of his who had connections to Vladimir Putin.423 Papadopoulos understood at the time that Polonskaya may have been Putin’s niece but later learned that this was not true.424 During the meeting, Polonskaya offered to help Papadopoulos establish contacts in Russia and stated that the Russian ambassador in London was a friend of hers.425 Based on this interaction, Papadopoulos expected Mifsud and Polonskaya to introduce him to the Russian ambassador in London, but that did not occur.426Following his meeting with Mifsud, Papadopoulos sent an email to members of the Trump Campaign’s foreign policy advisory team. The subject line of the message was “Meeting with Russian leadership--including Putin."427 The message stated in pertinent part:420 Papadopoulos 8/10/17 302, at 2.421 Phillip Rucker &amp; Robert Costa, Trump Questions Need for NATO, Outlines Noninterventionist Foreign Policy, Washington Post (Mar. 21, 2016).422 Papadopoulos 8/10/17 302, at 3; 3/24/16 Text Messages, Mifsud &amp; Papadopoulos.423 Papadopoulos 8/10/17 302, at 3.424 Papadopoulos 8/10/17 302, at 3; Papadopoulos 2/10/17 302, at 2-3; Papadopoulos Internet Search History (3/24/16) (revealing late-morning and early-afternoon searches on March 24, 2016 for “putin’s niece,” “olga putin,” and “russian president niece olga,” among other terms).425 Papadopoulos 8/10/17 302, at 3.426 Papadopoulos Statement of Offense 8 n.1.427 3/24/16 Email, Papadopoulos to Page et al. (8:48:21 a.m.).428 Papadopoulos’s statements to the Campaign were false. As noted above, the woman he met was not Putin’s niece, he had not met the Russian Ambassador in London, and the Ambassador did not also serve as Russia’s Deputy Foreign Minister.429 3/24/16 Email, Papadopoulos to Page et al. (8:48:21 a.m.).Vol. 1, Page 84Papadopoulos’s message came at a time when Clovis perceived a shift in the Campaign’s approach toward Russia — from one of engaging with Russia through the NATO framework and taking a strong stance on Russian aggression in Ukraine, ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■430Clovis’s response to Papadopoulos, however, did not reflect that shift. Replying to Papadopoulos and the other members of the foreign policy advisory team copied on the initial email, Clovis wrote:The Campaign held a meeting of the foreign policy advisory team with Senator Sessions and candidate Trump approximately one week later, on March 31, 2016, in Washington, D.C.432 The meeting — which was intended to generate press coverage for the Campaign433 — took place at the Trump International Hotel.434 Papadopoulos flew to Washington for the event. At the meeting, Senator Sessions sat at one end of an oval table, while Trump sat at the other. As reflected in the photograph below (which was posted to Trump’s Instagram account), Papadopoulos sat between the two, two seats to Sessions’s left:430 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■431 3/24/16 Email, Clovis to Papadopoulos et al. (8:55:04 a.m.).432 Papadopoulos 8/10/17 302, at 4; Papadopoulos 8/11/17 302, at 3.433 Sessions 1/17/18 302, at 16-17.434 Papadopoulos 8/10/17 302, at 4. 85Vol. 1, Page 85March 31, 2016 Meeting of Foreign Policy Team, with Papadopoulos (Fourth from Right of Candidate Trump)During the meeting, each of the newly announced foreign policy advisors introduced themselves and briefly described their areas of experience or expertise.435 Papadopoulos spoke about his previous work in the energy sector and then brought up a potential meeting with Russian officials.436 Specifically, Papadopoulos told the group that he had learned through his contacts in London that Putin wanted to meet with candidate Trump and that these connections could help arrange that meeting.437Trump and Sessions both reacted to Papadopoulos’s statement. Papadopoulos and Campaign advisor J.D. Gordon — who told investigators in an interview that he had a “crystal clear” recollection of the meeting – have stated that Trump was interested in and receptive to the idea of a meeting with Putin.438 Papadopoulos understood Sessions to be similarly supportive of his efforts to arrange a meeting.439 Gordon and two other attendees, however, recall that Sessions generally opposed the proposal, though they differ in their accounts of the concerns he voiced or the strength of the opposition he expressed.440Whatever Sessions’s precise words at the March 31 meeting, Papadopoulos did not understand Sessions or anyone else in the Trump Campaign to have directed that he refrain from435 Papadopoulos 8/10/17 302, at 4.436 Papadopoulos 8/10/17 302, at 4.437 Papadopoulos Statement of Offense 9 9; see Gordon 8/29/17 302, at 14; Carafano 9/12/17 302, at 2; Hoskins 9/14/17 302, at 1.438 Papadopoulos 8/10/17 302, at 4-5; Gordon 9/7/17 302, at 4-5.439 Papadopoulos 8/10/17 302, at 5; Papadopoulos 8/11/17 302, at 3.440 Sessions 1/17/18 302, at 17; Gordon 9/7/17 302, at 5; Hoskins 9/14/17 302, at 1; Carafano 9/12/17 302, at 2.Vol. 1, Page 86making further efforts to arrange a meeting between the Campaign and the Russian government. To the contrary, Papadopoulos told the Office that he understood the Campaign to be supportive of his efforts to arrange such a meeting.441 Accordingly, when he returned to London, Papadopoulos resumed those efforts.442Throughout April 2016, Papadopoulos continued to correspond with, meet with, and seek Russia contacts through Mifsud and, at times, Polonskaya.443 For example, within a week of her initial March 24 meeting with him, Polonskaya attempted to send Papadopoulos a text message — which email exchanges show to have been drafted or edited by Mifsud — addressing Papadopoulos’s “wish to engage with the Russian Federation."444 When Papadopoulos learned from Mifsud that Polonskaya had tried to message him, he sent her an email seeking another meeting.445 Polonskaya responded the next day that she was “back in St. Petersburg” but “would be very pleased to support [Papadopoulos’s] initiatives between our two countries” and “to meet [him] again."446 Papadopoulos stated in reply that he thought “a good step” would be to introduce him to “the Russian Ambassador in London,” and that he would like to talk to the ambassador, “or anyone else you recommend, about a potential foreign policy trip to Russia."447Mifsud, who had been copied on the email exchanges, replied on the morning of April 11, 2016. He wrote, “This is already been agreed. I am flying to Moscow on the 18th for a Valdai meeting, plus other meetings at the Duma. We will talk tomorrow."448 The two bodies referenced by Mifsud are part of or associated with the Russian government: the Duma is a Russian legislative assembly,449 while “Valdai” refers to the Valdai Discussion Club, a Moscow-based group that “is close to Russia’s foreign-policy establishment."450 Papadopoulos thanked Mifsud and said that he would see him “tomorrow."451 For her part, Polonskaya responded that she had already alerted my personal links to our conversation and your request,” that “we are all very excited the possibility of a good relationship with Mr. Trump,” and that “[t]he Russian Federation would love to welcome him once his candidature would be officially announced."452441 Papadopoulos 8/10/17 302, at 4-5; Papadopoulos 8/11/17 302, at 3; Papadopoulos 9/20/17 302, at 2.442 Papadopoulos Statement of Offense 10.443 Papadopoulos Statement of Offense 19 10-15.444 3/29/16 Emails, Mifsud to Polonskaya (3:39 a.m. and 5:36 a.m.).445 4/10/16 Email, Papadopoulos to Polonskaya (2:45:59 p.m.).446 4/11/16 Email, Polonskaya to Papadopoulos (3:11:24 a.m.).447 4/11/16 Email, Papadopoulos to Polonskaya (9:21:56 a.m.).448 4/11/16 Email, Mifsud to Papadopoulos (11:43:53).449 Papadopoulos Statement of Offense 9 10(c).450 Anton Troianovski, Putin Ally Warns of Arms Race as Russia Considers Response to U.S. Nuclear Stance, Washington Post (Feb. 10, 2018).451 4/11/16 Email, Papadopoulos to Mifsud (11:51:53 a.m.).452 4/12/16 Email, Polonskaya to Papadopoulos (4:47:06 a.m.).Vol. 1, Page 87Papadopoulos’s and Mifsud’s mentions of seeing each other “tomorrow” referenced a meeting that the two had scheduled for the next morning, April 12, 2016, at the Andaz Hotel in London. Papadopoulos acknowledged the meeting during interviews with the Office,453 and records from Papadopoulos’s UK cellphone and his internet-search history all indicate that the meeting took place.454Following the meeting, Mifsud traveled as planned to Moscow.455 On April 18, 2016, while in Russia, Mifsud introduced Papadopoulos over email to Ivan Timofeev, a member of the Russian International Affairs Council (RIAC).456 Mifsud had described Timofeev as having connections with the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA),457 the executive entity in Russia responsible for Russian foreign relations.458 Over the next several weeks, Papadopoulos and Timofeev had multiple conversations over Skype and email about setting “the groundwork” for a “potential” meeting between the Campaign and Russian government officials.459 Papadopoulos told the Office that, on one Skype call, he believed that his conversation with Timofeev was being monitored or supervised by an unknown third party, because Timofeev spoke in an official manner and Papadopoulos heard odd noises on the line.460 Timofeev also told Papadopoulos in an April 25, 2016 email that he had just spoken “to Igor Ivanov[,] the President of RIAC and former Foreign Minister of Russia,” and conveyed Ivanov’s advice about how best to arrange a “Moscow visit."461After a stop in Rome, Mifsud returned to England on April 25, 2016.462 The next day, Papadopoulos met Mifsud for breakfast at the Andaz Hotel (the same location as their last453 Papadopoulos 9/19/17 302, at 7.454 4/12/16 Email, Mifsud to Papadopoulos (5:44:39 a.m.) (forwarding Libya-related document); 4/12/16 Email, Mifsud to Papadopoulos &amp; Obaid (10:28:20 a.m.); Papadopoulos Internet Search History (Apr. 11, 2016 10:56:49 p.m.) (search for “andaz hotel liverpool street"); 4/12/16 Text Messages, Mifsud &amp; Papadopoulos.455 See, e.g., 4/18/16 Email, Mifsud to Papadopoulos (8:04:54 a.m.).456 Papadopoulos 8/10/17 302, at 5.457 Papadopoulos Statement of Offense 11.458 During the campaign period, Papadopoulos connected over LinkedIn with several MFA-affiliated individuals in addition to Timofeev. On April 25, 2016, he connected with Dmitry Andreyko, publicly identified as a First Secretary at the Russian Embassy in Ireland. In July 2016, he connected with Yuriy Melnik, the spokesperson for the Russian Embassy in Washington and with Alexey Krasilnikov, publicly identified as a counselor with the MFA. And on September 16, 2016, he connected with Sergei Nalobin, also identified as an MFA official. See Papadopoulos LinkedIn Connections ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■459 Papadopoulos Statement of Offense | 11.460 Papadopoulos 8/10/17 302, at 5; Papadopoulos 9/19/17 302, at 10.461 4/25/16 Email, Timofeev to Papadopoulos (8:16:35 a.m.).462 4/22/16 Email, Mifsud to Papadopoulos (12:41:01 a.m.).Vol. 1, Page 88meeting).463 During that meeting, Mifsud told Papadopoulos that he had met with high-level Russian government officials during his recent trip to Moscow. Mifsud also said that, on the trip, he learned that the Russians had obtained “dirt” on candidate Hillary Clinton. As Papadopoulos later stated to the FBI, Mifsud said that the “dirt” was in the form of “emails of Clinton,” and that they “have thousands of emails."464 On May 6, 2016, 10 days after that meeting with Mifsud, Papadopoulos suggested to a representative of a foreign government that the Trump Campaign had received indications from the Russian government that it could assist the Campaign through the anonymous release of information that would be damaging to Hillary Clinton.1465While he was discussing with his foreign contacts a potential meeting of campaign officials with Russian government officials, Papadopoulos kept campaign officials apprised of his efforts. On April 25, 2016, the day before Mifsud told Papadopoulos about the emails, Papadopoulos wrote to senior policy advisor Stephen Miller that “[t]he Russian government has an open invitation by Putin for Mr. Trump to meet him when he is ready,” and that “[t]he advantage of being in London is that these governments tend to speak a bit more openly in ‘neutral’ cities."466 On April 27, 2016, after his meeting with Mifsud, Papadopoulos wrote a second message to Miller stating that “some interesting messages [were] coming in from Moscow about a trip when the time is right."467 The same day, Papadopoulos sent a similar email to campaign manager Corey Lewandowski, telling Lewandowski that Papadopoulos had “been receiving a lot of calls over the last month about Putin wanting to host [Trump] and the team when the time is right."468Papadopoulos’s Russia-related communications with Campaign officials continued throughout the spring and summer of 2016. On May 4, 2016, he forwarded to Lewandowski an email from Timofeev raising the possibility of a meeting in Moscow, asking Lewandowski whether that was “something we want to move forward with."469 The next day, Papadopoulos forwarded the same Timofeev email to Sam Clovis, adding to the top of the email “Russia update."470 He included the same email in a May 21, 2016 message to senior Campaign official Paul Manafort, under the subject line “Request from Russia to meet Mr. Trump,” stating that “Russia has been eager to meet Mr. Trump for quite sometime and have been reaching out to me463 Papadopoulos Statement of Offense 14; 4/25/16 Text Messages, Mifsud &amp; Papadopoulos.464 Papadopoulos Statement of Offense 14.465 This information is contained in the FBI case-opening document and related materials. The information is law-enforcement sensitive (LES) and must be treated accordingly in any external dissemination. The foreign government conveyed this information to the U.S. government on July 26, 2016, a few days after WikiLeaks’s release of Clinton-related emails. The FBI opened its investigation of potential coordination between Russia and the Trump Campaign a few days later based on the information.466 4/25/16 Email, Papadopoulos to S. Miller (8:12:44 p.m.).467 4/27/16 Email, Papadopoulos to S. Miller (6:55:58 p.m.).468 4/27/16 Email, Papadopoulos to Lewandowski (7:15:14 p.m.).469 5/4/16 Email, Papadopoulos to Lewandowski (8:14:49 a.m.).470 5/5/16 Email, Papadopoulos to Clovis (7:15:21 p.m.).Vol. 1, Page 89to discuss."471 Manafort forwarded the message to another Campaign official, without including Papadopoulos, and stated: “Let[’]s discuss. We need someone to communicate that [Trump) is not doing these trips. It should be someone low level in the Campaign so as not to send any signal."472 On June 1, 2016, Papadopoulos replied to an earlier email chain with Lewandowski about a Russia visit, asking if Lewandowski “want[ed] to have a call about this topic” and whether “we were following up with it."473 After Lewandowski told Papadopoulos to “connect with” Clovis because he was “running point,” Papadopoulos emailed Clovis that “the Russian MFA” was asking him “if Mr. Trump is interested in visiting Russia at some point."474 Papadopoulos wrote in an email that he “[w]anted to pass this info along to you for you to decide what’s best to do with it and what message I should send (or to ignore)."475After several email and Skype exchanges with Timofeev,476 Papadopoulos sent one more email to Lewandowski on June 19, 2016, Lewandowski’s last day as campaign manager.477 The email stated that “[t]he Russian ministry of foreign affairs” had contacted him and asked whether, if Mr. Trump could not travel to Russia, a campaign representative such as Papadopoulos could attend meetings.478 Papadopoulos told Lewandowski that he was “willing to make the trip off the record if it’s in the interest of Mr. Trump and the campaign to meet specific people."479Following Lewandowski’s departure from the Campaign, Papadopoulos communicated with Clovis and Walid Phares, another member of the foreign policy advisory team, about an off-the-record meeting between the Campaign and Russian government officials or with Papadopoulos’s other Russia connections, Mifsud and Timofeev.480 Papadopoulos also interacted471 5/21/16 Email, Papadopoulos to Manafort (2:30:14 p.m.).472 Papadopoulos Statement of Offense 19 n.2.473 6/1/16 Email, Papadopoulos to Lewandowski (3:08:18 p.m.).474 6/1/16 Email, Lewandowski to Papadopoulos (3:20:03 p.m.); 6/1/16 Email, Papadopoulos to Clovis (3:29:14 p.m.).475 6/1/16 Email, Papadopoulos to Clovis (3:29:14 p.m.). Papadopoulos’s email coincided in time with another message to Clovis suggesting a Trump-Putin meeting. First, on May 15, 2016, David Klein — a distant relative of then-Trump Organization lawyer Jason Greenblatt — emailed Clovis about a potential Campaign meeting with Berel Lazar, the Chief Rabbi of Russia. The email stated that Klein had contacted Lazar in February about a possible Trump-Putin meeting and that Lazar was “a very close confidante of Putin.” DJTFP00011547 (5/15/16 Email, Klein to Clovis (5:45:24 p.m.)). The investigation did not find evidence that Clovis responded to Klein’s email or that any further contacts of significance came out of Klein’s subsequent meeting with Greenblatt and Rabbi Lazar at Trump Tower. Klein 8/30/18 302, at 2.476 Papadopoulos Statement of Offense 121(a).477 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■478 6/19/16 Email, Papadopoulos to Lewandowski (1:11:11 p.m.).479 6/19/16 Email, Papadopoulos to Lewandowski (1:11:11 p.m.).480 Papadopoulos Statement of Offense 1 21; 7/14/16 Email, Papadopoulos to Timofeev (11:57:24 p.m.); 7/15/16 Email, Papadopoulos to Mifsud; 7/27/16 Email, Papadopoulos to Mifsud (2:14:18 p.m.).Vol. 1, Page 90directly with Clovis and Phares in connection with the summit of the Transatlantic Parliamentary Group on Counterterrorism (TAG), a group for which Phares was co-secretary general.481 On July 16, 2016, Papadopoulos attended the TAG summit in Washington, D.C., where he sat next to Clovis (as reflected in the photograph below).482George Papadopoulos (far right) and Sam Clovis (second from right)Although Clovis claimed to have no recollection of attending the TAG summit,483 Papadopoulos remembered discussing Russia and a foreign policy trip with Clovis and Phares during the event.484 Papadopoulos’s recollection is consistent with emails sent before and after the TAG summit. The pre-summit messages included a July 11, 2016 email in which Phares suggested meeting Papadopoulos the day after the summit to chat,485 and a July 12 message in the same chain in which Phares advised Papadopoulos that other summit attendees are very nervous about Russia. So be aware."486 Ten days after the summit, Papadopoulos sent an email to Mifsud listing Phares and Clovis as other “participants” in a potential meeting at the London Academy of Diplomacy.487Finally, Papadopoulos’s recollection is also consistent with handwritten notes from a481 Papadopoulos 9/19/17 302, at 16-17; 9th TAG Summit in Washington DC, Transatlantic Parliament Group on Counter Terrorism.482 9th TAG Summit in Washington DC, Transatlantic Parliament Group on Counter Terrorism.483 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■484 Papadopoulos 9/19/17 302, at 16-17.485 7/11/16 Email, Phares to Papadopoulos.486 7/12/16 Email, Phares to Papadopoulos (14:52:29).487 7/27/16 Email, Papadopoulos to Mifsud (14:14:18).Vol. 1, Page 91journal that he kept at the time.488 Those notes, which are reprinted in part below, appear to refer to potential September 2016 meetings in London with representatives of the office of Putin,” and suggest that Phares, Clovis, and Papadopoulos (“Walid/Sam me") would attend without the official backing of the Campaign ("no official letter/no message from Trump”).489Later communications indicate that Clovis determined that he (Clovis) could not travel. On August 15, 2016, Papadopoulos emailed Clovis that he had received requests from multiple foreign governments, “even Russia[],” for “closed door workshops/consultations abroad,” and asked whether there was still interest for Clovis, Phares, and Papadopoulos “to go on that trip."490 Clovis copied Phares on his response, which said that he could not “travel before the election” but that he “would encourage [Papadopoulos) and Walid to make the trips, if it is feasible."491488 Papadopoulos 9/20/17 302, at 3.489 Papadopoulos declined to assist in deciphering his notes, telling investigators that he could not read his own handwriting from the journal. Papadopoulos 9/19/17 302, at 21. The notes, however, appear to read as listed in the column to the left of the image above.490 8/15/16 Email, Papadopoulos to Clovis (11:59:07 a.m.).491 8/15/16 Email, Clovis to Papadopoulos (12:01:45 p.m.).Vol. 1, Page 92Papadopoulos was dismissed from the Trump Campaign in early October 2016, after an interview he gave to the Russian news agency Interfax generated adverse publicity.492Papadopoulos admitted telling at least one individual outside of the Campaign — specifically, the then-Greek foreign minister — about Russia’s obtaining Clinton-related emails.493 In addition, a different foreign government informed the FBI that, 10 days after meeting with Mifsud in late April 2016, Papadopoulos suggested that the Trump Campaign had received indications from the Russian government that it could assist the Campaign through the anonymous release of information that would be damaging to Hillary Clinton.494 (This conversation occurred after the GRU spearphished Clinton Campaign chairman John Podesta and stole his emails, and the GRU hacked into the DCCC and DNC, see Volume I, Sections III.A &amp; III.B, supra.) Such disclosures raised questions about whether Papadopoulos informed any Trump Campaign official about the emails.When interviewed, Papadopoulos and the Campaign officials who interacted with him told the Office that they could not recall Papadopoulos’s sharing the information that Russia had obtained “dirt” on candidate Clinton in the form of emails or that Russia could assist the Campaign through the anonymous release of information about Clinton. Papadopoulos stated that he could not clearly recall having told anyone on the Campaign and wavered about whether he accurately remembered an incident in which Clovis had been upset after hearing Papadopoulos tell Clovis that Papadopoulos thought “they have her emails."495 The Campaign officials who interacted or corresponded with Papadopoulos have similarly stated, with varying degrees of certainty, that he did not tell them. Senior policy advisor Stephen Miller, for example, did not remember hearing anything from Papadopoulos or Clovis about Russia having emails of or dirt on candidate Clinton.496 Clovis stated that he did not recall anyone, including Papadopoulos, having given him non-public information that a foreign government might be in possession of material damaging to Hillary Clinton.497 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■498 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■492 George Papadopoulos: Sanctions Have Done Little More Than to Turn Russia Towards China, Interfax (Sept. 30, 2016).493 Papadopoulos 9/19/17 302, at 14-15; Def. Sent. Mem., United States v. George Papadopoulos, 1:17-cr-182 (D.D.C. Aug. 31, 2018), Doc. 45.494 See footnote 465 of Volume 1, Section IV.A.2.d, supra.495 Papadopoulos 8/10/17 302, at 5; Papadopoulos 8/11/17 302, at 5; Papadopoulos 9/20/17 302, at 2.496 S. Miller 12/14/17 302, at 10.497 Grand Jury498 Grand JuryVol. 1, Page 93■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■.499 No documentary evidence, and nothing in the email accounts or other communications facilities reviewed by the Office, shows that Papadopoulos shared this information with the Campaign.The Office investigated another Russia-related contact with Papadopoulos. The Office was not fully able to explore the contact because the individual at issue — Sergei Millian — remained out of the country since the inception of our investigation and declined to meet with members of the Office despite our repeated efforts to obtain an interview.Papadopoulos first connected with Millian via LinkedIn on July 15, 2016, shortly after Papadopoulos had attended the TAG Summit with Clovis.500 Millian, an American citizen who is a native of Belarus, introduced himself “as president of [the] New York-based Russian American Chamber of Commerce,” and claimed that through that position he had “insider knowledge and direct access to the top hierarchy in Russian politics."501 Papadopoulos asked Timofeev whether he had heard of Millian.502 Although Timofeev said no,503 Papadopoulos met Millian in New York City.504 The meetings took place on July 30 and August 1, 2016.505 Afterwards, Millian invited Papadopoulos to attend — and potentially speak at — two international energy conferences, including one that was to be held in Moscow in September 2016.506 Papadopoulos ultimately did not attend either conference.On July 31, 2016, following his first in-person meeting with Millian, Papadopoulos emailed Trump Campaign official Bo Denysyk to say that he had been contacted “by some leaders of Russian-American voters here in the US about their interest in voting for Mr. Trump,” and to ask whether he should “put you in touch with their group (US-Russia chamber of commerce)."507 Denysyk thanked Papadopoulos “for taking the initiative,” but asked him to “hold off with499 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■500 7/15/16 LinkedIn Message, Millian to Papadopoulos.501 7/15/16 LinkedIn Message, Millian to Papadopoulos.502 7/22/16 Facebook Message, Papadopoulos to Timofeev (7:40:23 p.m.); 7/26/16 Facebook Message, Papadopoulos to Timofeev (3:08:57 p.m.).503 7/23/16 Facebook Message, Timofeev to Papadopoulos (4:31:37 a.m.); 7/26/16 Facebook Message, Timofeev to Papadopoulos (3:37:16 p.m.).504 7/16/16 Text Messages, Papadopoulos &amp; Millian (7:55:43 p.m.).505 7/30/16 Text Messages, Papadopoulos &amp; Millian (5:38 &amp; 6:05 p.m.); 7/31/16 Text Messages, Millian &amp; Papadopoulos (3:48 &amp; 4:18 p.m.); 8/1/16 Text Message, Millian to Papadopoulos (8:19 p.m.).506 8/2/16 Text Messages, Millian &amp; Papadopoulos (3:04 &amp; 3:05 p.m.); 8/3/16 Facebook Messages, Papadopoulos &amp; Millian (4:07:37 a.m. &amp; 1:11:58 p.m.).507 7/31/16 Email, Papadopoulos to Denysyk (12:29:59 p.m.).Vol. 1, Page 94outreach to Russian-Americans” because “too many articles” had already portrayed the Campaign, then-campaign chairman Paul Manafort, and candidate Trump as “being pro-Russian.”508On August 23, 2016, Millian sent a Facebook message to Papadopoulos promising that he would “share with you a disruptive technology that might be instrumental in your political work for the campaign."509 Papadopoulos claimed to have no recollection of this matter.510On November 9, 2016, shortly after the election, Papadopoulos arranged to meet Millian in Chicago to discuss business opportunities, including potential work with Russian “billionaires who are not under sanctions."511 The meeting took place on November 14, 2016, at the Trump Hotel and Tower in Chicago.512 According to Papadopoulos, the two men discussed partnering on business deals, but Papadopoulos perceived that Millian’s attitude toward him changed when Papadopoulos stated that he was only pursuing private-sector opportunities and was not interested in a job in the Administration.513 The two remained in contact, however, and had extended online discussions about possible business opportunities in Russia.514 The two also arranged to meet at a Washington, D.C. bar when both attended Trump’s inauguration in late January 2017.515Carter Page worked for the Trump Campaign from January 2016 to September 2016. He was formally and publicly announced as a foreign policy advisor by the candidate in March 2016.516 Page had lived and worked in Russia, and he had been approached by Russian intelligence officers several years before he volunteered for the Trump Campaign. During his time with the Campaign, Page advocated pro-Russia foreign policy positions and traveled to Moscow in his personal capacity. Russian intelligence officials had formed relationships with Page in 2008 and 2013 and Russian officials may have focused on Page in 2016 because of his affiliation with the Campaign. However, the investigation did not establish that Page coordinated with the Russian government in its efforts to interfere with the 2016 presidential election.508 7/31/16 Email, Denysyk to Papadopoulos (21:54:52).509 8/23/16 Facebook Message, Millian to Papadopoulos (2:55:36 a.m.).510Papadopoulos 9/20/17 302, at 2.511 11/10/16 Facebook Message, Millian to Papadopoulos (9:35:05 p.m.).512 11/14/16 Facebook Message, Millian to Papadopoulos (1:32:11 a.m.).513 Papadopoulos 9/19/17 302, at 19.514 E.g., 11/29/16 Facebook Messages, Papadopoulos &amp; Millian (5:09 – 5:11 p.m.); 12/7/16 Facebook Message, Millian to Papadopoulos (5:10:54 p.m.).515 1/20/17 Facebook Messages, Papadopoulos &amp; Millian (4:37-4:39 a.m.).516 Page was interviewed by the FBI during five meetings in March 2017, before the Special Counsel’s appointment. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Vol. 1, Page 95Before he began working for the Campaign in January 2016, Page had substantial prior experience studying Russian policy issues and living and working in Moscow. From 2004 to 2007, Page was the deputy branch manager of Merrill Lynch’s Moscow office.517 There, he worked on transactions involving the Russian energy company Gazprom and came to know Gazprom’s deputy chief financial officer, Sergey Yatsenko.518 In 2008, Page founded Global Energy Capital LLC (GEC), an investment management and advisory firm focused on the energy sector in emerging markets.519 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■520 The company otherwise had no sources of income, and Page was forced to draw down his life savings to support himself and pursue his business venture.521 Page asked Yatsenko to work with him at GEC as a senior advisor on a contingency basis, ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■.512In 2008, Page met Alexander Bulatov, a Russian government official who worked at the Russian Consulate in New York.523 Page later learned that Bulatov was a Russian intelligence officer, ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■.524In 2013, Victor Podobnyy, another Russian intelligence officer working covertly in the United States under diplomatic cover, formed a relationship with Page.525 Podobnyy met Page at an energy symposium in New York City and began exchanging emails with him.526 Podobnyy and Page also met in person on multiple occasions, during which Page offered his outlook on the future of the energy industry and provided documents to Podobnyy about the energy business.527 In a recorded conversation on April 8, 2013, Podobnyy told another intelligence officer that Page was interested in business opportunities in Russia.528 In Podobnyy’s words, Page “got hooked on517 Testimony of Carter Page, Hearing Before the U.S. House of Representatives, Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, 115th Cong. 40 (Nov. 2, 2017) (exhibit).518 Page 3/30/17 302, at 10.519 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■520 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■521 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■522 Page 3/30/17 302, at 10; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■523 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■524 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■525 Grand Jury Complaint ¶¶ 22, 24, 32, United States v. Buryakov, 1:15-mj-215 (S.D.N.Y. Jan. 23, 2015), Doc. 1 (“Buryakov Complaint”).526 Buryakov Complaint ¶ 34.527 Buryakov Complaint ¶ 34.528 Buryakov Complaint ¶ 32.Vol. 1, Page 96Gazprom thinking that if they have a project, he could... rise up. Maybe he can.... [I]t’s obvious that he wants to earn lots of money."529 Podobnyy said that he had led Page on by “feed[ing] him empty promises” that Podobnyy would use his Russian business connections to help Page.530 Podobnyy told the other intelligence officer that his method of recruiting foreign sources was to promise them favors and then discard them once he obtained relevant information from them.531 In 2015, Podobnyy and two other Russian intelligence officers were charged with conspiracy to act as an unregistered agent of a foreign government.532 The criminal complaint detailed Podobnyy’s interactions with and conversations about Page, who was identified only as “Male-1."533 Based on the criminal complaint’s description of the interactions, Page was aware that he was the individual described as “Male-1."534 Page later spoke with a Russian government official at the United Nations General Assembly and identified himself so that the official would understand he was “Male-1” from the Podobnyy complaint.535 Page told the official that he “didn’t do anything” ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■.536In interviews with the FBI before the Office’s opening, Page acknowledged that he understood that the individuals he had associated with were members of the Russian intelligence services, but he stated that he had only provided immaterial non-public information to them and that he did not view this relationship as a backchannel.537 Page told investigating agents that “the more immaterial non-public information I give them, the better for this country."538In January 2016, Page began volunteering on an informal, unpaid basis for the Trump Campaign after Ed Cox, a state Republican Party official, introduced Page to Trump Campaign officials. 939 Page told the Office that his goal in working on the Campaign was to help candidate Trump improve relations with Russia. 540 To that end, Page emailed Campaign officials offering his thoughts on U.S.-Russia relations, prepared talking points and briefing memos on Russia, and529 Buryakov Complaint.530 Buryakov Complaint.531 Buryakov Complaint.532 See Buryakov Complaint; see also Indictment, United States v. Buryakov, 1:15-cr-73 (S.D.N.Y. Feb. 9, 2015), Doc. 10; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■533 Buryakov Complaint ¶¶ 32-34; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■534 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■535 Page 3/16/17 302, at 4; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■536 Page 3/16/17 302, at 4; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■537 Page 3/30/17 302, at 6; Page 3/31/17 302, at 1.538 Page 3/31/17 302, at 1.539 Page 3/16/17 302, at 1; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■540 Page 3/10/17 302, at 2.Vol. 1, Page 97proposed that candidate Trump meet with President Vladimir Putin in Moscow.541In communications with Campaign officials, Page also repeatedly touted his high-level contacts in Russia and his ability to forge connections between candidate Trump and senior Russian governmental officials. For example, on January 30, 2016, Page sent an email to senior Campaign officials stating that he had “spent the past week in Europe and ha[d] been in discussions with some individuals with close ties to the Kremlin” who recognized that Trump could have a “game-changing effect ... in bringing the end of the new Cold War."542 The email stated that “[t]hrough [his] discussions with these high level contacts,” Page believed that “a direct meeting in Moscow between Mr[.] Trump and Putin could be arranged."543 Page closed the email by criticizing U.S. sanctions on Russia.544 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■545On March 21, 2016, candidate Trump formally and publicly identified Page as a member of his foreign policy team to advise on Russia and the energy sector.546 Over the next several months, Page continued providing policy-related work product to Campaign officials. For example, in April 2016, Page provided feedback on an outline for a foreign policy speech that the candidate gave at the Mayflower Hotel,547 see Volume I, Section IV.A.4, infra. In May 2016, Page prepared an outline of an energy policy speech for the Campaign and then traveled to Bismarck, North Dakota, to watch the candidate deliver the speech.548 Chief policy advisor Sam Clovis expressed appreciation for Page’s work and praised his work to other Campaign officials.549Page’s affiliation with the Trump Campaign took on a higher profile and drew the attention of Russian officials after the candidate named him a foreign policy advisor. As a result, in late April 2016, Page was invited to give a speech at the July 2016 commencement ceremony at the541 See, e.g., 1/30/16 Email, Page to Glassner et al.; 3/17/16 Email, Page to Clovis (attaching a “President’s Daily Brief” prepared by Page that discussed the “severe degradation of U.S.-Russia relations following Washington’s meddling” in Ukraine); ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■542 1/30/16 Email, Page to Glassner et al.543 1/30/16 Email, Page to Glassner et al.544 1/30/16 Email, Page to Glassner et al.545 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■546 A Transcript of Donald Trump’s Meeting with the Washington Post Editorial Board, Washington Post (Mar. 21, 2016); ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■547 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■548 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■549 See, e.g., 3/28/16 Email, Clovis to Lewandowski et al. (forwarding notes prepared by Page and stating, “I wanted to let you know the type of work some of our advisors are capable of.").Vol. 1, Page 98New Economic School (NES) in Moscow.550 The NES commencement ceremony generally featured high-profile speakers; for example, President Barack Obama delivered a commencement address at the school in 2009.551 NES officials told the Office that the interest in inviting Page to speak at NES was based entirely on his status as a Trump Campaign advisor who served as the candidate’s Russia expert.552 Andrej Krickovic, an associate of Page’s and assistant professor at the Higher School of Economics in Russia, recommended that NES rector Shlomo Weber invite Page to give the commencement address based on his connection to the Trump Campaign.553 Denis Klimentov, an employee of NES, said that when Russians learned of Page’s involvement in the Trump Campaign in March 2016, the excitement was palpable.554 Weber recalled that in summer 2016 there was substantial interest in the Trump Campaign in Moscow, and he felt that bringing a member of the Campaign to the school would be beneficial.555Page was eager to accept the invitation to speak at NES, and he sought approval from Trump Campaign officials to make the trip to Russia.556 On May 16, 2016, while that request was still under consideration, Page emailed Clovis, J.D. Gordon, and Walid Phares and suggested that candidate Trump take his place speaking at the commencement ceremony in Moscow.557 On June 19, 2016, Page followed up again to request approval to speak at the NES event and to reiterate that NES “would love to have Mr. Trump speak at this annual celebration” in Page’s place.558 Campaign manager Corey Lewandowski responded the same day, saying, “If you want to do this, it would be out side [sic] of your role with the DJT for President campaign. I am certain Mr. Trump will not be able to attend.”559In early July 2016, Page traveled to Russia for the NES events. On July 5, 2016, Denis Klimentov, copying his brother, Dmitri Klimentov,560 emailed Maria Zakharova, the Director of the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ Information and Press Department, about Page’s visit and his connection to the Trump Campaign.561 Denis Klimentov said in the email that he wanted to draw the Russian government’s attention to Page’s visit in Moscow.562 His message to Zakharova550 Page 3/16/17 302, at 2-3; Page 3/10/17 302, at 3.551 S. Weber 7/28/17 302, at 3.552 Y. Weber 6/1/17 302, at 4-5; S. Weber 7/28/17 302, at 3.553 See Y. Weber 6/1/17 302, at 4; S. Weber 7/28/17 302, at 3.554 De. Klimentov 6/9/17 302, at 2.555 S. Weber 7/28/17 302, at 3.556 See 5/16/16 Email, Page to Phares et al. (referring to submission of a “campaign advisor request form").557 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■; 5/16/16 Email, Page to Phares et al.558 6/19/16 Email, Page to Gordon et al.559 6/19/16 Email, Lewandowski to Page et al.560 Dmitri Klimentov is a New York-based public relations consultant.561 7/5/16 Email, Klimentov to Zakharova (translated).562 7/5/16 Email, Klimentov to Zakharova (translated).Vol. 1, Page 99continued\: “Page is Trump’s adviser on foreign policy. He is a known businessman; he used to work in Russia. . . . If you have any questions, I will be happy to help contact him."563 Dmitri Klimentov then contacted Russian Press Secretary Dmitry Peskov about Page’s visit to see if Peskov wanted to introduce Page to any Russian government officials.564 The following day, Peskov responded to what appears to have been the same Denis Klimentov-Zakharova email thread. Peskov wrote, “I have read about \[Page\]. Specialists say that he is far from being the main one. So I better not initiate a meeting in the Kremlin."565On July 7, 2016, Page delivered the first of his two speeches in Moscow at NES,566 In the speech, Page criticized the U.S. government’s foreign policy toward Russia, stating that “Washington and other Western capitals have impeded potential progress through their often hypocritical focus on ideas such as democratization, inequality, corruption and regime change."567 On July 8, 2016, Page delivered a speech during the NES commencement. 568 After Page delivered his commencement address, Russian Deputy Prime Minister and NES board member Arkady Dvorkovich spoke at the ceremony and stated that the sanctions the United States had imposed on Russia had hurt the NES.569 Page and Dvorkovich shook hands at the commencement ceremony, and Weber recalled that Dvorkovich made statements to Page about working together in the future.570 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■.571Page said that, during his time in Moscow, he met with friends and associates he knew from when he lived in Russia, including Andrey Baranov, a former Gazprom employee who had become the head of investor relations at Rosneft, a Russian energy company.572 Page stated that he and Baranov talked about “immaterial non-public” information.573 Page believed he and Baranov discussed Rosneft president Igor Sechin, and he thought Baranov might have mentioned563 7/5/16 Email, Klimentov to Zakharova (translated).564 Dm. Klimentov 11/27/18 302, at 1-2.565 7/6/16 Email, Peskov to Klimentov (translated).566 Page 3/10/17 302, at 3.567 See Carter W. Page, The Lecture of Trump’s Advisor Carter Page in Moscow, YouTube Channel Katehon Think Tank, Posted July 7, 2016, available at https://www.youtube.com/watch? time_continue=28&amp;v=1CYF29saA9w. Page also provided the FBI with a copy of his speech and slides from the speech. See Carter Page, “The Evolution of the World Economy: Trends and Potential,” Speech at National Economic Speech (July 7, 2016).568 Page 3/10/17 302, at 3.569 Page 3/16/17 302, at 3.570 S. Weber 7/28/17 302, at 4.571 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■.572 Page 3/10/17 302, at 3; Page 3/30/17 302, at 3; Page 3/31/17 302, at 2.573 Page 3/30/17 302, at 3.Vol. 1, Page 100the possibility of a sale of a stake in Rosneft in passing574 Page recalled mentioning his involvement in the Trump Campaign with Baranov, although he did not remember details of the conversation.575 Page also met with individuals from Tatneft, a Russian energy company, to discuss possible business deals, including having Page work as a consultant.576On July 8, 2016, while he was in Moscow, Page emailed several Campaign officials and stated he would send “a readout soon regarding some incredible insights and outreach I’ve received from a few Russian legislators and senior members of the Presidential Administration here.”577 On July 9, 2016, Page emailed Clovis, writing in pertinent part:Despite these representations to the Campaign, ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■579 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■580 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■581 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■582 The Office was unable to obtain additional evidence or testimony about who Page may have met or communicated with in Moscow; thus, Page’s activities in Russia — as described in his emails with the Campaign — were not fully explained.574 Page 3/30/17 302, at 9. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■575 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ Page 3/30/17 302, at 3.576 Page 3/10/17 302, at 3; Page 3/30/17 302, at 7; Page 3/31/17 302, at 2.577 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ 7/8/16 Email, Page to Dahl &amp; Gordon.578 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ 7/9/16 Email, Page to Clovis.579 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■580 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■581 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■582 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Vol. 1, Page 101In July 2016, after returning from Russia, Page traveled to the Republican National Convention in Cleveland.583 While there, Page met Russian Ambassador to the United States Sergey Kislyak; that interaction is described in Volume I, Section IV.A.6.a, infra.584 Page later emailed Campaign officials with feedback he said he received from ambassadors he had met at the Convention, and he wrote that Ambassador Kislyak was very worried about candidate Clinton’s world views.585 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■.586Following the Convention, Page’s trip to Moscow and his advocacy for pro-Russia foreign policy drew the media’s attention and began to generate substantial press coverage. The Campaign responded by distancing itself from Page, describing him as an “informal foreign policy advisor": who did “not speak for Mr. Trump or the campaign.587 On September 23, 2016, Yahoo! News reported that U.S. intelligence officials were investigating whether Page had opened private communications with senior Russian officials to discuss U.S. sanctions policy under a possible Trump Administration.588 A Campaign spokesman told Yahoo! News that Page had “no role” in the Campaign and that the Campaign was “not aware of any of his activities, past or present."589 On September 24, 2016, Page was formally removed from the Campaign.590Although Page had been removed from the Campaign, after the election he sought a position in the Trump Administration.591 On November 14, 2016, he submitted an application to the Transition Team that inflated his credentials and experiences, stating that in his capacity as a Trump Campaign foreign policy advisor he had met with “top world leaders” and “effectively583 Page 3/10/17 302, at 4; Page 3/16/17 302, at 3.584 Page 3/10/17 302, at 4; Page 3/16/17 302, at 3.585 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■; 7/23/16 Email, Page to Clovis; 7/25/16 Email, Page to Gordon &amp; Schmitz.586 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■587 See, e.g., Steven Mufson &amp; Tom Hamburger, Trump Advisor’s Public Comments, Ties to Moscow Stir Unease in Both Parties, Washington Post (Aug. 5, 2016).588 Michael Isikoff, U.S. Intel Officials Probe Ties Between Trump Adviser and Kremlin, Yahoo! News (Sept. 23, 2016).589 Michael Isikoff, U.S. Intel Officials Probe Ties Between Trump Adviser and Kremlin, Yahoo! News (Sept. 23, 2016); see also 9/25/16 Email, Hicks to Conway &amp; Bannon (instructing that inquiries about Page should be answered with “[h]e was announced as an informal adviser in March. Since then he has had no role or official contact with the campaign. We have no knowledge of activities past or present and he now officially has been removed from all lists etc.").590 Page 3/16/17 302, at 2; see, e.g., 9/23/16 Email, J. Miller to Bannon &amp; S. Miller (discussing plans to remove Page from the campaign).591 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■, “Transition Online Form,” 11/14/16 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Vol. 1, Page 102responded to diplomatic outreach efforts from senior government officials in Asia, Europe, the Middle East, Africa, [and] the Americas."592 Page received no response from the Transition Team. When Page took a personal trip to Moscow in December 2016, he met again with at least one Russian government official. That interaction and a discussion of the December trip are set forth in Volume I, Section IV.B.6, infra.Members of the Trump Campaign interacted on several occasions with the Center for the National Interest (CNI), principally through its President and Chief Executive Officer, Dimitri Simes. CNI is a think tank with expertise in and connections to the Russian government. Simes was born in the former Soviet Union and immigrated to the United States in the 1970s. In April 2016, candidate Trump delivered his first speech on foreign policy and national security at an event hosted by the National Interest, a publication affiliated with CNI. Then-Senator Jeff Sessions and Russian Ambassador Kislyak both attended the event and, as a result, it gained some attention in relation to Sessions’s confirmation hearings to become Attorney General. Sessions had various other contacts with CNI during the campaign period on foreign-policy matters, including Russia. Jared Kushner also interacted with Simes about Russian issues during the campaign. The investigation did not identify evidence that the Campaign passed or received any messages to or from the Russian government through CNI or Simes.CNI is a Washington-based non-profit organization that grew out of a center founded by former President Richard Nixon.593 CNI describes itself “as a voice for strategic realism in U.S. foreign policy,” and publishes a bi-monthly foreign policy magazine, the National Interest.594 CNI is overseen by a board of directors and an advisory council that is largely honorary and whose members at the relevant time included Sessions, who served as an advisor to candidate Trump on national security and foreign policy issues.595 Dimitri Simes is president and CEO of CNI and the publisher and CEO of the National Interest.596 Simes was born in the former Soviet Union, emigrated to the United States in the early 1970s, and joined CNI’s predecessor after working at the Carnegie Endowment for International592 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■, “Transition Online Form,” 11/14/16 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■593 Simes 3/8/18 302, at 1-2.594 About the Center, CNI, available at https://cftni.org/about/.595 Advisory Counsel, CNI, available at https://web.archive.org/web/20161030025331/ http://cftni.org/about/advisory-council/; Simes 3/8/18 302, at 3-4; Saunders 2/15/18 302, at 4; Sessions 1/17/18 302, at 16.596 Simes 3/8/18 302, at 2.Vol. 1, Page 103Peace.597 Simes personally has many contacts with current and former Russian government officials,598 as does CNI collectively. As CNI stated when seeking a grant from the Carnegie Corporation in 2015, CNI has “unparalleled access to Russian officials and politicians among Washington think tanks,"599 in part because CNI has arranged for U.S. delegations to visit Russia and for Russian delegations to visit the United States as part of so-called “Track II” diplomatic efforts.600On March 14, 2016, CNI board member Richard Plepler organized a luncheon for CNI and its honorary chairman, Henry Kissinger, at the Time Warner Building in New York.601 The idea behind the event was to generate interest in CNI’s work and recruit new board members for CNI.602 Along with Simes, attendees at the event included Jared Kushner, son-in-law of candidate Trump.603 Kushner told the Office that the event came at a time when the Trump Campaign was having trouble securing support from experienced foreign policy professionals and that, as a result, he decided to seek Simes’s assistance during the March 14 event.604Simes and Kushner spoke again on a March 24, 2016 telephone call,605 three days after Trump had publicly named the team of foreign policy advisors that had been put together on short notice.606 On March 31, 2016, Simes and Kushner had an in-person, one-on-one meeting in Kushner’s New York office.607 During that meeting, Simes told Kushner that the best way to handle foreign-policy issues for the Trump Campaign would be to organize an advisory group of experts to meet with candidate Trump and develop a foreign policy approach that was consistent with Trump’s voice.608 Simes believed that Kushner was receptive to that suggestion.609Simes also had contact with other individuals associated with the Trump Campaign regarding the Campaign’s foreign policy positions. For example, on June 17, 2016, Simes sent J.D. Gordon an email with a “memo to Senator Sessions that we discussed at our recent meeting”597 Simes 3/8/18 302, at 1-2; Simes 3/27/18 302, at 19.598 Simes 3/27/18 302, at 10-15.599 C00011656 (Rethinking U.S.-Russia Relations, CNI (Apr. 18, 2015)).600 Simes 3/8/18 302, at 5; Saunders 2/15/18 302, at 29-30; Zakheim 1/25/18 302, at 3.601 Simes 3/8/18 302, at 6; C00006784 (3/11/16 Email, Gilbride to Saunders (3:43:12 p.m.); cf. Zakheim 1/25/18 302, at 1 (Kissinger was CNI’s “Honorary Chairman of the Board"); Boyd 1/24/18 302, at 2; P. Sanders 2/15/18 302, at 5.602 Simes 3/8/18 302, at 5-6; Simes 3/27/18 302, at 2.603 Simes 3/8/18 302, at 6; Kushner 4/11/18 302 at 2.604 Kushner 4/11/18 302, at 2.605 Simes 3/8/18 302, at 6-7.606 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ see Volume I, Section IV.A.2, supra.607 Simes 3/8/18 302, at 7-9.608 Simes 3/8/18 302, at 7-8.609 Simes 3/8/18 302, at 8; see also Boyd 1/24/18 302, at 2.Vol. 1, Page 104and asked Gordon to both read it and share it with Sessions. The memorandum proposed building a “small and carefully selected group of experts” to assist Sessions with the Campaign, operating under the assumption “that Hillary Clinton is very vulnerable on national security and foreign policy issues.” The memorandum outlined key issues for the Campaign, including a “new beginning with Russia.” 610During both their March 24 phone call and their March 31 in-person meeting, Simes and Kushner discussed the possibility of CNI hosting a foreign policy speech by candidate Trump.611 Following those conversations, Simes agreed that he and others associated with CNI would provide behind-the-scenes input on the substance of the foreign-policy speech and that CNI officials would coordinate the logistics of the speech with Sessions and his staff, including Sessions’s chief of staff, Rick Dearborn.612In mid-April 2016, Kushner put Simes in contact with senior policy advisor Stephen Miller and forwarded to Simes an outline of the foreign-policy speech that Miller had prepared.613 Simes sent back to the Campaign bullet points with ideas for the speech that he had drafted with CNI Executive Director Paul Saunders and board member Richard Burt.614 Simes received subsequent draft outlines from Miller, and he and Saunders spoke to Miller by phone about substantive changes to the speech.615 It is not clear, however, whether CNI officials received an actual draft of the speech for comment; while Saunders recalled having received an actual draft, Simes did not, and the emails that CNI produced to this Office do not contain such a draft.616After board members expressed concern to Simes that CNI’s hosting the speech could be perceived as an endorsement of a particular candidate, CNI decided to have its publication, the National Interest, serve as the host and to have the event at the National Press Club.617 Kushner later requested that the event be moved to the Mayflower Hotel, which was another venue that Simes had mentioned during initial discussions with the Campaign, in order to address concerns about security and capacity.618610 C00008187 (6/17/16 Email, Simes to Gordon (3:35:45 p.m.)).611 Simes 3/8/18 302, at 7.612 Simes 3/8/18 302, at 8-11; C00008923 (4/6/16 Email, Simes to Burt (2:22:28 p.m.)); Burt 2/9/18 302, at 7.613 C00008551 (4/17/16 Email, Kushner to Simes (2:44:25 p.m.)); C00006759 (4/14/16 Email Kushner to Simes &amp; S. Miller (12:30 p.m.)).614 Burt 2/9/18 302, at 7; Saunders 2/15/18 302, at 7-8.615 Simes 3/8/18 302, at 13; Saunders 2/15/18 302, at 7-8.616 Simes 3/8/18 302, at 13; Saunders 2/15/18 302, at 7-8.617 Saunders 2/15/18 302, at 8; Simes 3/8/18 302, at 12; C00003834-43 (4/22/16 Email, Simes to Boyd et al. (8:47 a.m.)).618 Simes 3/8/18 302, at 12, 18; Saunders 2/15/18 302, at 11. : 105Vol. 1, Page 105On April 25, 2016, Saunders booked event rooms at the Mayflower to host both the speech and a VIP reception that was to be held beforehand.619 Saunders understood that the reception — at which invitees would have the chance to meet candidate Trump — would be a small event.620 Saunders decided who would attend by looking at the list of CNI’s invitees to the speech itself and then choosing a subset for the reception.621 CNI’s invitees to the reception included Sessions and Kislyak.622 The week before the speech Simes had informed Kislyak that he would be invited to the speech, and that he would have the opportunity to meet Trump.623When the pre-speech reception began on April 27, a receiving line was quickly organized so that attendees could meet Trump.624 Sessions first stood next to Trump to introduce him to the members of Congress who were in attendance.625 After those members had been introduced, Simes stood next to Trump and introduced him to the CNI invitees in attendance, including Kislyak.626 Simes perceived the introduction to be positive and friendly, but thought it clear that Kislyak and Trump had just met for the first time.627 Kislyak also met Kushner during the pre-speech reception. The two shook hands and chatted for a minute or two, during which Kushner recalled Kislyak saying, “we like what your candidate is saying ... it’s refreshing."628Several public reports state that, in addition to speaking to Kushner at the pre-speech reception, Kislyak also met or conversed with Sessions at that time.629 Sessions stated to investigators, however, that he did not remember any such conversation.630 Nor did anyone else affiliated with CNI or the National Interest specifically recall a conversation or meeting between Sessions and Kislyak at the pre-speech reception.631 It appears that, if a conversation occurred at the pre-speech reception, it was a brief one conducted in public view, similar to the exchange between Kushner and Kislyak.619 Saunders 2/15/18 302, at 11-12; C00006651-57 (Mayflower Group Sales Agreement).620 Saunders 2/15/18 302, at 12-13.621 Saunders 2/15/18 302, at 12.622 C00002575 (Attendee List); C00008536 (4/25/16 Email, Simes to Kushner (4:53:45 p.m.)).623 Simes 3/8/18 302, at 19-20.624 Simes 3/8/18 302, at 21.625 Simes 3/8/18 302, at 21.626 Simes 3/8/18 302, at 21.627 Simes 3/8/18 302, at 21.628 Kushner 4/11/18 302, at 4.629 See, e.g., Ken Dilanian, Did Trump, Kushner, Sessions Have an Undisclosed Meeting With Russian?, NBC News (June 1, 2016); Julia loffe, Why Did Jeff Sessions Really Meet With Sergey Kislyak, The Atlantic (June 13, 2017).630 Sessions 1/17/18 302, at 22.631 Simes 3/8/18 302, at 21; Saunders 2/15/18 302, at 14, 21; Boyd 1/24/18 302, at 3-4; Heilbrunn 2/1/18 302, at 6; Statement Regarding President Trump’s April 27, 2016 Foreign Policy Speech at the Center for the National Interest, CNI (Mar. 8, 2017).Vol. 1, Page 106The Office found no evidence that Kislyak conversed with either Trump or Sessions after the speech, or would have had the opportunity to do so. Simes, for example, did not recall seeing Kislyak at the post-speech luncheon,632 and the only witness who accounted for Sessions’s whereabouts stated that Sessions may have spoken to the press after the event but then departed for Capitol Hill.633 Saunders recalled, based in part on a food-related request he received from a Campaign staff member, that Trump left the hotel a few minutes after the speech to go to the airport.634In the wake of Sessions’s confirmation hearings as Attorney General, questions arose about whether Sessions’s campaign-period interactions with CNI apart from the Mayflower speech included any additional meetings with Ambassador Kislyak or involved Russian-related matters. With respect to Kislyak contacts, on May 23, 2016, Sessions attended CNI’s Distinguished Service Award dinner at the Four Seasons Hotel in Washington, D.C.635 Sessions attended a pre-dinner reception and was seated at one of two head tables for the event.636 A seating chart prepared by Saunders indicates that Sessions was scheduled to be seated next to Kislyak, who appears to have responded to the invitation by indicating he would attend the event.637 Sessions, however, did not remember seeing, speaking with, or sitting next to Kislyak at the dinner.638 Although CNI board member Charles Boyd said he may have seen Kislyak at the dinner,639 Simes, Saunders, and Jacob Heilbrunn — editor of the National Interest — all had no recollection of seeing Kislyak at the May 23 event.640 Kislyak also does not appear in any of the photos from the event that the Office obtained.In the summer of 2016, CNI organized at least two dinners in Washington, D.C. for Sessions to meet with experienced foreign policy professionals.641 The dinners included CNI-affiliated individuals, such as Richard Burt and Zalmay Khalilzad, a former U.S. ambassador to Afghanistan and Iraq and the person who had introduced Trump before the April 27, 2016 foreign-632 Simes 3/8/18 302, at 22; Heilbrunn 2/1/18 302, at 7.633 Luff 1/30/18 302, at 4.634 Saunders 2/15/18 302, at 15.635 Sessions 1/17/18 302, at 22; Saunders 2/15/18 302, at 17.636 Saunders 2/15/18 302, at 17; C00004779-80 (5/23/16 Email, Cantelmo to Saunders &amp; Hagberg (9:30:12 a.m.); C00004362 (5/23/16 Email, Bauman to Cantelmo et al. (2:02:32 a.m.).637 C00004362 (5/23/16 Email Bauman to Cantelmo et al. (2:02:32 a.m.).638 Sessions 1/17/18 302, at 22.639 Boyd 1/24/18 302, at 4.640 Simes 3/8/18 302, at 23; Saunders 2/15/18 302, at 18; Heilbrunn 2/1/18 302, at 7.641 Simes 3/8/18 302, at 31; Saunders 2/15/18 302, at 19; Burt 2/9/18 302, at 9-10; Khalilzad 1/9/18 302, at 5.Vol. 1, Page 107policy speech.642 Khalilzad also met with Sessions one-on-one separately from the dinners.643 At the dinners and in the meetings, the participants addressed U.S. relations with Russia, including how U.S. relations with NATO and European countries affected U.S. policy toward Russia. 644 But the discussions were not exclusively focused on Russia.645 Khalilzad, for example, recalled discussing “nation-building” and violent extremism with Sessions. 646 In addition, Sessions asked Saunders (of CNI) to draft two memoranda not specific to Russia: one on Hillary Clinton’s foreign policy shortcomings and another on Egypt.647Between the April 2016 speech at the Mayflower Hotel and the presidential election, Jared Kushner had periodic contacts with Simes.648 Those contacts consisted of both in-person meetings and phone conversations, which concerned how to address issues relating to Russia in the Campaign and how to move forward with the advisory group of foreign policy experts that Simes had proposed.649 Simes recalled that he, not Kushner, initiated all conversations about Russia, and that Kushner never asked him to set up back-channel conversations with Russians.650 According to Simes, after the Mayflower speech in late April, Simes raised the issue of Russian contacts with Kushner, advised that it was bad optics for the Campaign to develop hidden Russian contacts, and told Kushner both that the Campaign should not highlight Russia as an issue and should handle any contacts with Russians with care.651 Kushner generally provided a similar account of his interactions with Simes.652Among the Kushner-Simes meetings was one held on August 17, 2016, at Simes’s request, in Kushner’s New York office. The meeting was to address foreign policy advice that CNI was providing and how to respond to the Clinton Campaign’s Russia-related attacks on candidate642 Burt 2/9/18 302, at 9-10; Khalilzad 1/9/18 302, at 1-2, 5.643 Khalilzad 1/9/18 302, at 5-6.644 Simes 3/8/18 302, at 31; Burt 2/9/18 302, at 9-10; Khalilzad 1/9/18 302, at 5.645 Saunders 2/15/18 302, at 20.646 Khalilzad 1/9/18 302, at 6.647 Saunders 2/15/18 302, at 19-20.648 Simes 3/8/18 302, at 27.649 Simes 3/8/18 302, at 27.650 Simes 3/8/18 302, at 27.651 Simes 3/8/18 302, at 27. During this period of time, the Campaign received a request for a high-level Campaign official to meet with an officer at a Russian state-owned bank “to discuss an offer [that officer) claims to be carrying from President Putin to meet with” candidate Trump. NOSC00005653 (5/17/16 Email, Dearborn to Kushner (8:12 a.m.)). Copying Manafort and Gates, Kushner responded, “Pass on this. A lot of people come claiming to carry messages. Very few are able to verify. For now I think we decline such meetings. Most likely these people go back home and claim they have special access to gain importance for themselves. Be careful.” NOSC00005653 (5/17/16 Email, Kushner to Dearborn).652 Kushner 4/11/18 302, at 11-13.Vol. 1, Page 108Trump.653 In advance of the meeting, Simes sent Kushner a “Russia Policy Memo” laying out “what Mr. Trump may want to say about Russia.”634 In a cover email transmitting that memo and a phone call to set up the meeting, Simes mentioned “a well-documented story of highly questionable connections between Bill Clinton” and the Russian government, “parts of [which]” (according to Simes) had even been “discussed with the CIA and the FBI in the late 1990s and shared with the [Independent Counsel] at the end of the Clinton presidency.”655 Kushner forwarded the email to senior Trump Campaign officials Stephen Miller, Paul Manafort, and Rick Gates, with the note “suggestion only.”656 Manafort subsequently forwarded the email to his assistant and scheduled a meeting with Simes.657 (Manafort was on the verge of leaving the Campaign by the time of the scheduled meeting with Simes, and Simes ended up meeting only with Kushner).During the August 17 meeting, Simes provided Kushner the Clinton-related information that he had promised.658 Simes told Kushner that, ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ 659 Simes claimed that he had received this information from former CIA and Reagan White House official Fritz Ermarth, who claimed to have learned it from U.S. intelligence sources, not from Russians.660Simes perceived that Kushner did not find the information to be of interest or use to the Campaign because it was, in Simes’s words, “old news.9661 When interviewed by the Office, Kushner stated that he believed that there was little chance of something new being revealed about the Clintons given their long career as public figures, and that he never received from Simes information that could be “operationalized” for the Trump Campaign.662 Despite Kushner’s653 Simes 3/8/18 302, at 29-30; Simes 3/27/18 302, at 6; Kushner 4/11/18 302, at 12; C00007269 (8/10/16 Meeting Invitation, Vargas to Simes et al.); DJTFP00023484 (8/11/16 Email, Hagan to Manafort (5:57:15 p.m.)).654 C00007981-84 (8/9/16 Email, Simes to Kushner (6:09:21 p.m.)). The memorandum recommended “downplaying Russia as a U.S. foreign policy priority at this time” and suggested that “some tend to exaggerate Putin’s flaws.” The memorandum also recommended approaching general Russian-related questions in the framework of “how to work with Russia to advance important U.S. national interests” and that a Trump Administration “not go abroad in search of monsters to destroy.” The memorandum did not discuss sanctions but did address how to handle Ukraine-related questions, including questions about Russia’s invasion and annexation of Crimea.655 C00007981 (8/9/16 Email, Simes to Kushner (6:09:21 p.m.)).656 DJTFP00023459 (8/10/16 Email, Kushner to S. Miller et al. (11:30:13 a.m.)).657 DJTFP00023484 (8/11/16 Email, Hagan to Manafort (5:57:15 p.m.)).658 Simes 3/8/18 302, at 29-30; Simes 3/27/18 302, at 6; Kushner 4/11/18 302, at 12.659 Simes 3/8/18 302, at 30; Simes 3/27/18 302, at 6.660 Simes 3/8/18 302, at 30.661 Simes 3/8/18 302, at 30; Simes 3/27/18 302, at 6.662 Kushner 4/11/18 302, at 12.Vol. 1, Page 109reaction, Simes believed that he provided the same information at a small group meeting of foreign policy experts that CNI organized for Sessions.663On June 9, 2016, senior representatives of the Trump Campaign met in Trump Tower with a Russian attorney expecting to receive derogatory information about Hillary Clinton from the Russian government. The meeting was proposed to Donald Trump Jr. in an email from Robert Goldstone, at the request of his then-client Emin Agalarov, the son of Russian real-estate developer Aras Agalarov. Goldstone relayed to Trump Jr. that the “Crown prosecutor of Russia... offered to provide the Trump Campaign with some official documents and information that would incriminate Hillary and her dealings with Russia” as part of Russia and its government’s support for Mr. Trump.” Trump Jr. immediately responded that “if it’s what you say I love it,” and arranged the meeting through a series of emails and telephone calls.Trump Jr. invited campaign chairman Paul Manafort and senior advisor Jared Kushner to attend the meeting, and both attended. Members of the Campaign discussed the meeting before it occurred, and Michael Cohen recalled that Trump Jr. may have told candidate Trump about an upcoming meeting to receive adverse information about Clinton, without linking the meeting to Russia. According to written answers submitted by President Trump, he has no recollection of learning of the meeting at the time, and the Office found no documentary evidence showing that he was made aware of the meeting — or its Russian connection — before it occurred.The Russian attorney who spoke at the meeting, Natalia Veselnitskaya, had previously worked for the Russian government and maintained a relationship with that government throughout this period of time. She claimed that funds derived from illegal activities in Russia were provided to Hillary Clinton and other Democrats. Trump Jr. requested evidence to support those claims, but Veselnitskaya did not provide such information. She and her associates then turned to a critique of the origins of the Magnitsky Act, a 2012 statute that imposed financial and travel sanctions on Russian officials and that resulted in a retaliatory ban on adoptions of Russian children. Trump Jr. suggested that the issue could be revisited when and if candidate Trump was elected. After the election, Veselnitskaya made additional efforts to follow up on the meeting, but the Trump Transition Team did not engage.Aras Agalarov is a Russian real-estate developer with ties to Putin and other members of the Russian government, including Russia’s Prosecutor General, Yuri Chaika.664 Aras Agalarov is the president of the Crocus Group, a Russian enterprise that holds substantial Russian government construction contracts and that — as discussed above, Volume I, Section IV.A.1, supra663 Simes 3/8/18 302, at 30.664 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ Goldstone 2/8/18 302, at 4.Vol. 1, Page 110— worked with Trump in connection with the 2013 Miss Universe pageant in Moscow and a potential Trump Moscow real-estate project.665 The relationship continued over time, as the parties pursued the Trump Moscow project in 2013–2014 and exchanged gifts and letters in 2016.666 For example, in April 2016, Trump responded to a letter from Aras Agalarov with a handwritten note.667 Aras Agalarov expressed interest in Trump’s campaign, passed on “congratulations” for winning in the primary and — according to one email drafted by Goldstone — an “offer” of his “support and that of many of his important Russian friends and colleagues[,] especially with reference to U.S./Russian relations."668On June 3, 2016, Emin Agalarov called Goldstone, Emin’s then-publicist.669 Goldstone is a music and events promoter who represented Emin Agalarov from approximately late 2012 until late 2016.670 While representing Emin Agalarov, Goldstone facilitated the ongoing contact between the Trumps and the Agalarovs — including an invitation that Trump sent to Putin to attend the 2013 Miss Universe Pageant in Moscow.671 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ .672 Goldstone understood ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ Russian political connection, and Emin Agalarov indicated that the attorney was a prosecutor.673 Goldstone recalled that the information that might interest the Trumps involved Hillary Clinton ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■674■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■665 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ Kaveladze 11/16/17 302, at 3; Shugart 9/25/17 302, at 2-3; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■666 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ Goldstone 2/8/18 302, at 10; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ Kaveladze 11/16/17 302, at 5-6; 4/25/16 Email, Graff to Goldstone.667 RG000033-34 (4/25/16 Email, Graff to Goldstone (attachment)).668 DJTJR00008 (2/29/16 Email, Goldstone to Trump Jr. et al.); ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■669 Call Records of Robert Goldstone ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ Goldstone 2/8/18 302, at 6.670 Goldstone 2/8/18 302, at 1-2; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ Beniaminov 1/6/18 302, at 3.671 Goldstone 2/8/18 302, at 1-5; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ DJTJR00008 (2/29/19 Email, Goldstone to Trump Jr.); Beniaminov 1/6/18 302, at 3; Shugart 9/25/17 302, at 2; TRUMPORG 18 001325 (6/21/13 Email, Goldstone to Graff); TRUMPORG_18_001013 (6/24/13 Email, Goldstone to Graff); TRUMPORG_18_001014 (6/24/13 Email, Graff to Shugart); TRUMPORG_18_001018 (6/26/13 Email, Graff to Goldstone); TRUMPORG_18_001022 (6/27/13 Email, Graff to L. Kelly); TRUMPORG_18_001333 (9/12/13 Email, Goldstone to Graff, Shugart); MU000004289 (7/27/13 Email, Goldstone to Graff, Shugart).672 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ see Goldstone 2/8/18 302, at 6-7.673 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■674 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Vol. 1, Page 111■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■675The ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ mentioned by Emin Agalarov was Natalia Veselnitskaya.676 From approximately 1998 until 2001, Veselnitskaya worked as a prosecutor for the Central Administrative District of the Russian Prosecutor’s Office,677 and she continued to perform government-related work and maintain ties to the Russian government following her departure.678 She lobbied and testified about the Magnitsky Act, which imposed financial sanctions and travel restrictions on Russian officials and which was named for a Russian tax specialist who exposed a fraud and later died in a Russian prison.679 Putin called the statute “a purely political, unfriendly act,” and Russia responded by barring a list of current and former U.S. officials from entering Russia and by halting the adoption of Russian children by U.S. citizens.680 Veselnitskaya performed legal work for Denis Katsyv,681 the son of Russian businessman Peter Katsyv, and for his company Prevezon Holdings Ltd., which was a defendant in a civil-forfeiture action alleging the laundering of proceeds from the fraud exposed by Magnitsky.682 She also675 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■676 In December 2018, a grand jury in the Southern District of New York returned an indictment charging Veselnitskaya with obstructing the Prevezon litigation discussed in the text above. See Indictment, United States v. Natalia Vladimirovna Veselnitskaya, No. 18-cr-904 (S.D.N.Y.). The indictment alleges, among other things, that Veselnitskaya lied to the district court about her relationship to the Russian Prosecutor General’s Office and her involvement in responding to a U.S. document request sent to the Russian government.677 Veselnitskaya 11/20/17 Statement to the Senate Committee on the Judiciary, at 2; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■678 Testimony of Natalia Veselnitskaya Before the Senate Committee on Judiciary (Nov. 20, 2017) at 33; Keir Simmons &amp; Rachel Elbaum, Russian Lawyer Veselnitskaya Says She Didn’t Give Trump Jr. Info on Clinton, NBC News (July 11, 2017); Maria Tsvetkova &amp; Jack Stubbs, Moscow Lawyer Who Met Trump Jr. Had Russian Spy Agency As Client, Reuters (July 21, 2017); Andrew E. Kramer &amp; Sharon LaFraniere, Lawyer Who Was Said to Have Dirt on Clinton Had Closer Ties to Kremlin than She Let On, New York Times (Apr. 27, 2018).679 See Pub. L. No. 112-208 88 402, 404(a)(1), 126 Stat. 1502, 1502-1506. Sergei Magnitsky was a Russian tax specialist who worked for William Browder, a former investment fund manager in Russia. Browder hired Magnitsky to investigate tax fraud by Russian officials, and Magnitsky was charged with helping Browder embezzle money. After Magnitsky died in a Russian prison, Browder lobbied Congress to pass the Magnitsky Act. See, e.g., Andrew E. Kramer, Turning Tables in Magnitsky Case, Russia Accuses Nemesis of Murder, New York Times (Oct. 22, 2017); Testimony of Natalia Veselnitskaya Before the Senate Committee on Judiciary (Nov. 20, 2017), Exhibits at 1-4; Rosie Gray, Bill Browder’s Testimony to the Senate Judiciary Committee, The Atlantic (July 25, 2017).680 Ellen Barry, Russia Bars 18 Americans After Sanctions by US, New York Times (Apr. 13, 2013); Tom Porter, Supporters of the Magnitsky Act Claim They’ve Been Targets of Russian Assassination and Kidnapping Bids, Newsweek (July 16, 2017).681 Testimony of Natalia Veselnitskaya Before the Senate Committee on Judiciary (Nov. 20, 2017), at 21.682 See Veselnitskaya Decl., United States v. Prevezon Holdings, Ltd., No. 13-cv-6326 (S.D.N.Y.); see Prevezon Holdings, Second Amended Complaint; Prevezon Holdings, Mem. and Order; Prevezon Holdings, Deposition of Oleg Lurie.Vol. 1, Page 112appears to have been involved in an April 2016 approach to a U.S. congressional delegation in Moscow offering “confidential information” from “the Prosecutor General of Russia” about “interactions between certain political forces in our two countries."683Shortly after his June 3 call with Emin Agalarov, Goldstone emailed Trump Jr.684 The email stated:Within minutes of this email, Trump Jr. responded, emailing back: “Thanks Rob I appreciate that. I am on the road at the moment but perhaps I just speak to Emin first. Seems we have some time and if it’s what you say I love it especially later in the summer. Could we do a call first thing next week when I am back?"685 Goldstone conveyed Trump Jr.’s interest to Emin Agalarov, emailing that Trump Jr. “wants to speak personally on the issue."686On June 6, 2016, Emin Agalarov asked Goldstone if there was “[a]ny news,” and Goldstone explained that Trump Jr. was likely still traveling for the “final elections ... where [T]rump will be ‘crowned’ the official nominee."687 On the same day, Goldstone again emailed Trump Jr. and asked when Trump Jr. was “free to talk with Emin about this Hillary info."688 Trump Jr. asked if683 See Gribbin 8/31/17 302, at 1-2 &amp; 1A (undated one-page document given to congressional delegation). The Russian Prosecutor General is an official with broad national responsibilities in the Russian legal system. See Federal Law on the Prosecutor’s Office of the Russian Federation (1992, amended 2004).684 RG000061 (6/3/16 Email, Goldstone to Trump Jr.); DJTJR00446 (6/3/16 Email, Goldstone to Donald Trump Jr.); @DonaldJTrumpJr 07/11/17 (11:00) Tweet.685 DJTJR00446 (6/3/16 Email, Trump Jr. to Goldstone); @DonaldJTrumpJr 07/11/17 (11:00) Tweet; RG000061 (6/3/16 Email, Trump Jr. to Goldstone).686■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■RG000062 (6/3/16 Email, Goldstone &amp; Trump Jr.).687 RG000063 (6/6/16 Email, A. Agalarov to Goldstone); RG000064 (6/6/16 Email, Goldstone to A. Agalarov).688 RG000065 (6/6/16 Email, Goldstone to Trump Jr.); DJTJR00446 (6/6/16 Email, Goldstone to Trump Jr.).Vol. 1, Page 113they could “speak now,” and Goldstone arranged a call between Trump Jr. and Emin Agalarov.689 On June 6 and June 7, Trump Jr. and Emin Agalarov had multiple brief calls.690Also on June 6, 2016, Aras Agalarov called Ike Kaveladze and asked him to attend a meeting in New York with the Trump Organization.691 Kaveladze is a Georgia-born, naturalized U.S. citizen who worked in the United States for the Crocus Group and reported to Aras Agalarov.692 Kaveladze told the Office that, in a second phone call on June 6, 2016, Aras Agalarov asked Kaveladze if he knew anything about the Magnitsky Act, and Aras sent him a short synopsis for the meeting and Veselnitskaya’s business card. According to Kaveladze, Aras Agalarov said the purpose of the meeting was to discuss the Magnitsky Act, and he asked Kaveladze to translate.693On June 7, Goldstone emailed Trump Jr. and said that “Emin asked that I schedule a meeting with you and [t]he Russian government attorney who is flying over from Moscow.9694 Trump Jr. replied that Manafort (identified as the “campaign boss"), Jared Kushner, and Trump Jr. would likely attend.695 Goldstone was surprised to learn that Trump Jr., Manafort, and Kushner would attend.696 Kaveladze ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ “puzzled” by the list of attendees and that he checked with one of Emin Agalarov’s assistants, Roman Beniaminov, who said that the purpose of the meeting was for Veselnitskaya to convey “negative information on Hillary Clinton."697 Beniaminov, however, stated that he did not recall having known or said that.698Early on June 8, 2016 Kushner emailed his assistant, asking her to discuss a 3:00 p.m.689 DJTJR00445 (6/6/16 Email, Goldstone and Trump Jr.); RG000065-67 (6/6/16 Email, Goldstone and Trump Jr.); ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■690 DJTJR00499 (Call Records of Donald Trump Jr. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ ; Call Records of Donald Trump Jr. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■691 Kaveladze 11/16/17 302, at 6; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■692 Kaveladze 11/16/17 302, at 1-2; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ Beniaminov 1/6/18 302, at 2-3; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■693 Kaveladze 11/16/17 302, at 6.694 DJTJR00467 (6/7/16 Email, Goldstone to Trump Jr.); @DonaldJTrumpJr 07/11/17 (11:00) Tweet; RG000068 (6/7/16 Email, Goldstone to Trump Jr.); ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■695 DJTJR00469 (6/7/16 Email, Trump Jr. to Goldstone); @DonaldJTrumpJr 07/11/17 (11:00) Tweet; RG000071 (6/7/16 Email, Trump Jr. to Goldstone); OSC-KAV_00048 (6/7/16 Email, Goldstone to Kaveladze); ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■696 Goldstone 2/8/18 302, at 7; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■697 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ see Kaveladze 11/16/17 302 at 7; OSC-KAV_00048 (6/7/16 Email, Goldstone to Kaveladze).698 Beniaminov 1/6/18 302, at 3.Vol. 1, Page 114meeting the following day with Trump Jr.699 Later that day, Trump Jr. forwarded the entirety of his email correspondence regarding the meeting with Goldstone to Manafort and Kushner, under the subject line “FW: Russia - Clinton - private and confidential,” adding a note that the “[m]eeting got moved to 4 tomorrow at my offices."700 Kushner then sent his assistant a second email, informing her that the “[m]eeting with don jr is 4pm now."701 Manafort responded, “See you then. P."702Rick Gates, who was the deputy campaign chairman, stated during interviews with the Office that in the days before June 9, 2016 Trump Jr. announced at a regular morning meeting of senior campaign staff and Trump family members that he had a lead on negative information about the Clinton Foundation.703 Gates believed that Trump Jr. said the information was coming from a group in Kyrgyzstan and that he was introduced to the group by a friend.704 Gates recalled that the meeting was attended by Trump Jr., Eric Trump, Paul Manafort, Hope Hicks, and, joining late, Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner. According to Gates, Manafort warned the group that the meeting likely would not yield vital information and they should be careful.705 Hicks denied any knowledge of the June 9 meeting before 2017,706 and Kushner did not recall if the planned June 9 meeting came up at all earlier that week.707Michael Cohen recalled being in Donald J. Trump’s office on June 6 or 7 when Trump Jr. told his father that a meeting to obtain adverse information about Clinton was going forward. 708 Cohen did not recall Trump Jr. stating that the meeting was connected to Russia.709 From the tenor of the conversation, Cohen believed that Trump Jr. had previously discussed the meeting with his father, although Cohen was not involved in any such conversation.710 In an interview with the Senate Judiciary Committee, however, Trump Jr. stated that he did not inform his father about the699 NOSC0000007-08 (6/8/18 Email, Kushner to Vargas).700 NOSC00000039-42 (6/8/16 Email, Trump Jr. to Kushner &amp; Manafort); DJTJR00485 (6/8/16 Email, Trump Jr. to Kushner &amp; Manafort).701 NOSC0000004 (6/8/16 Email, Kushner to Vargas).702 6/8/16 Email, Manafort to Trump Jr.703 Gates 1/30/18 302, at 7; Gates 3/1/18 302, at 3-4. Although the March 1 302 refers to “June 19,” that is likely a typographical error; external emails indicate that a meeting with those participants occurred on June 6. See NOSC00023603 (6/6/16 Email, Gates to Trump Jr. et al.).704 Gates 1/30/18 302, at 7. Aras Agalarov is originally from Azerbaijan, and public reporting indicates that his company, the Crocus Group, has done substantial work in Kyrgyzstan. See Neil MacFarquhar, A Russian Developer Helps Out the Kremlin on Occasion. Was He a Conduit to Trump?, New York Times (July 16, 2017).705 Gates 3/1/18 302, at 3-4.706 Hicks 12/7/17 302, at 6.707 Kushner 4/11/18 302, at 8.708 Cohen 8/7/18 302, at 4-6.709 Cohen 8/7/18 302, at 4-5.710 Cohen 9/12/18 302, at 15-16.Vol. 1, Page 115emails or the upcoming meeting.711 Similarly, neither Manafort nor Kushner recalled anyone informing candidate Trump of the meeting, including Trump Jr. 712 President Trump has stated to this Office, in written answers to questions, that he has “no recollection of learning at the time” that his son, Manafort, or “Kushner was considering participating in a meeting in June 2016 concerning potentially negative information about Hillary Clinton."713Veselnitskaya was in New York on June 9, 2016, for appellate proceedings in the Prevezon civil forfeiture litigation.714 That day, Veselnitskaya called Rinat Akhmetshin, a Soviet-born U.S. lobbyist, ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ and when she learned that he was in New York, invited him to lunch.715 Akhmetshin told the Office that he had worked on issues relating to the Magnitsky Act and had worked on the Prevezon litigation.716 Kaveladze and Anatoli Samochornov, a711 Interview of: Donald J. Trump, Jr., Senate Judiciary Committee, 115th Cong. 28-29, 84, 94-95 (Sept. 7, 2017). The Senate Judiciary Committee interview was not under oath, but Trump Jr. was advised that it is a violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1001 to make materially false statements in a congressional investigation, Id. at 10-11.712 Manafort 9/11/18 302, at 3-4; Kushner 4/11/18 302, at 10.713 Written Responses of Donald J. Trump (Nov. 20, 2018), at 8 (Response to Question I, Parts (a)-(c)). We considered whether one sequence of events suggested that candidate Trump had contemporaneous knowledge of the June 9 meeting. On June 7, 2016 Trump announced his intention to give a major speech” “probably Monday of next week" — which would have been June 13 — about “all of the things that have taken place with the Clintons.” See, e.g., Phillip Bump, What we know about the Trump Tower meeting, Washington Post (Aug. 7, 2018). Following the June 9 meeting, Trump changed the subject of his planned speech to national security. But the Office did not find evidence that the original idea for the speech was connected to the anticipated June 9 meeting or that the change of topic was attributable to the failure of that meeting to produce concrete evidence about Clinton. Other events, such as the Pulse nightclub shooting on June 12, could well have caused the change. The President’s written answers to our questions state that the speech’s focus was altered “[i]n light of the Pulse nightclub shooting. See Written Responses, supra. As for the original topic of the June 13 speech, Trump has said that “he expected to give a speech referencing the publicly available, negative information about the Clintons,” and that the draft of the speech prepared by Campaign staff “was based on publicly available material, including, in particular, information from the book Clinton Cash by Peter Schweizer.” Written Responses, supra. In a later June 22 speech, Trump did speak extensively about allegations that Clinton was corrupt, drawing from the Clinton Cash book. See Full Transcript: Donald Trump NYC Speech on Stakes of the Election, politico.com (June 22, 2016).714 Testimony of Natalia Veselnitskaya Before the Senate Committee on Judiciary (Nov. 20, 2017) at 41, 42; Alison Frankel, How Did Russian Lawyer Veselnitskaya Get into U.S. for Trump Tower Meeting? Reuters, (Nov. 6, 2017); Michael Kranish et al., Russian Lawyer who Met with Trump Jr. Has Long History Fighting Sanctions, Washington Post (July 11, 2017); see OSC-KAV00113 (6/8/16 Email, Goldstone to Kaveladze); RG000073 (6/8/16 Email, Goldstone to Trump Jr.); Lieberman 12/13/17 302, at 5; see also Prevezon Holdings Order (Oct. 17, 2016).715 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■716 Akhmetshin 11/14/17 302, at 4-6; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Vol. 1, Page 116Russian-born translator who had assisted Veselnitskaya with Magnitsky-related lobbying and the Prevezon case, also attended the lunch.717 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ Veselnitskaya said she was meeting ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ and asked Akhmetshin what she should tell him.718 According to several participants in the lunch, Veselnitskaya showed Akhmetshin a document alleging financial misconduct by Bill Browder and the Ziff brothers (Americans with business in Russia), and those individuals subsequently making political donations to the DNC.719 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■720The group then went to Trump Tower for the meeting.721Trump Jr., Manafort, and Kushner participated on the Trump side, while Kaveladze, Samochornov, Akhmetshin, and Goldstone attended with Veselnitskaya.722 The Office spoke to every participant except Veselnitskaya and Trump Jr., the latter of whom declined to be voluntarily interviewed by the Office ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■The meeting lasted approximately 20 minutes.723 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■724 ■■■■■■■■■ Goldstone recalled that Trump Jr. invited Veselnitskaya to begin but did not say anything about the subject of the meeting.725 Participants agreed that Veselnitskaya stated that the Ziff brothers had broken Russian laws and had donated their profits to the DNC or the Clinton Campaign.726 She asserted that the Ziff brothers had engaged in tax evasion and money laundering717 Kaveladze 11/16/17 302, at 7; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ Samochornov 7/13/17 302, at 2, 4; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■718 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■719 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ Kaveladze 11/16/17 302, at 7; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ Samochornov did not recall the planned subject matter of the Trump Tower meeting coming up at lunch. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ Samochornov 7/12/17 302, at 4. In her later Senate statement and interactions with the press, Veselnitskaya produced what she claimed were the talking points that she brought to the June 9 meeting.720 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■721 E.g., Samochornov 7/12/17 302, at 4.722 E.g., Samochornov 7/12/17 302, at 4.723 E.g., Samochornov 7/12/17 302, at 4; Goldstone 2/8/18 302, at 9.724 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■725 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■726 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Vol. 1, Page 117in both the United States and Russia,727 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■728 According to Akhmetshin, Trump Jr. asked follow-up questions about how the alleged payments could be tied specifically to the Clinton Campaign, but Veselnitskaya indicated that she could not trace the money once it entered the United States.729 Kaveladze similarly recalled that Trump Jr. asked what they have on Clinton, and Kushner became aggravated and asked “[w]hat are we doing here?"730Akhmetshin then spoke about U.S. sanctions imposed under the Magnitsky Act and Russia’s response prohibiting U.S. adoption of Russian children.731 Several participants recalled that Trump Jr. commented that Trump is a private citizen, and there was nothing they could do at that time.732 Trump Jr. also said that they could revisit the issue if and when they were in government.733 Notes that Manafort took on his phone reflect the general flow of the conversation, although not all of its details.734At some point in the meeting, Kushner sent an iMessage to Manafort stating “waste of time,” followed immediately by two separate emails to assistants at Kushner Companies with requests that727 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■728 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■729 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■730 Kaveladze 11/16/17 302, at 8; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ Akhmetshin 11/14/17 302, at 12.731 Samochornov 7/13/17 302, at 3; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■732 E.g., Akhmetshin 11/14/17 302, at 12-13; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■733 Akhmetshin 11/14/17 302, at 12-13; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ Samochornov 7/13/17 302, at 3. Trump Jr. confirmed this in a statement he made in July 2017 after news of the June 2016 meeting broke. Interview of: Donald J. Trump, Jr., Senate Judiciary Committee U.S. Senate Washington DC, 115th Cong. 57 (Sept. 7, 2017).734 Manafort’s notes state:Bill browderOffshore - Cyprus133m sharesCompaniesNot invest - loanValue in Cyprus as interIlliciActive sponsors of RNCBrowder hired Joanna GloverTied into CheneyRussian adoption by American familiesPJM-SJC-00000001-02 (Notes Produced to Senate Judiciary Committee).Vol. 1, Page 118they call him to give him an excuse to leave.735 Samochornov recalled that Kushner departed the meeting before it concluded; Veselnitskaya recalled the same when interviewed by the press in July 2017.736Veselnitskaya’s press interviews and written statements to Congress differ materially from other accounts. In a July 2017 press interview, Veselnitskaya claimed that she has no connection to the Russian government and had not referred to any derogatory information concerning the Clinton Campaign when she met with Trump Campaign officials.737 Veselnitskaya’s November 2017 written submission to the Senate Judiciary Committee stated that the purpose of the June 9 meeting was not to connect with “the Trump Campaign” but rather to have “a private meeting with Donald Trump Jr.—a friend of my good acquaintance’s son on the matter of assisting me or my colleagues in informing the Congress members as to the criminal nature of manipulation and interference with the legislative activities of the US Congress."738 In other words, Veselnitskaya claimed her focus was on Congress and not the Campaign. No witness, however, recalled any reference to Congress during the meeting. Veselnitskaya also maintained that she “attended the meeting as a lawyer of Denis Katsyv,” the previously mentioned owner of Prevezon Holdings, but she did not “introduce [her]self in this capacity."739In a July 2017 television interview, Trump Jr. stated that while he had no way to gauge the reliability, credibility, or accuracy of what Goldstone had stated was the purpose of the meeting, if “someone has information on our opponent ... maybe this is something. I should hear them out."740 Trump Jr. further stated in September 2017 congressional testimony that he thought he should “listen to what Rob and his colleagues had to say."741 Depending on what, if any, information was provided, Trump Jr. stated he could then “consult with counsel to make an informed decision as to whether to give it any further consideration."742735 NOSC00003992 (6/9/16 Text Message, Kushner to Manafort); Kushner 4/11/18 302, at 9; Vargas 4/4/18 302, at 7; NOSC00000044 (6/9/16 Email, Kushner to Vargas); NOSC00000045 (6/9/16 Email, Kushner to Cain)736 Samochornov 7/12/17 302, at 4;■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ Kushner 4/11/18 302, at 9-10; see also Interview of: Donald J. Trump, Jr., Senate Judiciary Committee, 115th Cong. 48-49 (Sept. 7, 2017)737 Russian Lawyer Veselnitskaya Says She Didn’t Give Trump Jr. Info on Clinton, NBC News (July 11, 2017)738 Testimony of Natalia Veselnitskaya before the United States Senate Committee on the Judiciary, 115th Cong. 10 (Nov 20, 2017)739 Testimony of Natalia Veselnitskaya before the United States Senate Committee on the Judiciary, 115th Cong. 21 (Nov. 20, 2017)740 Sean Hannity, Transcript-Donald Trump Jr, Fox News (July 11, 2017)741 Interview of: Donald J. Trump, Jr, Senate Judiciary Committee, 115th Cong. 16 (Sept. 7, 2017)742 Interview of: Donald J. Trump, Jr, Senate Judiciary Committee, 115th Cong. 16-17 (Sept. 7, 2017).Vol. 1, Page 119After the June 9 meeting concluded, Goldstone apologized to Trump Jr. 743 According to Goldstone, he told Trump Jr. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ told Emin Agalarov in a phone call that the meeting was about adoption ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ 745 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ 746 Aras Agalarov asked Kaveladze to report in after the meeting, but before Kaveladze could call, Aras Agalarov called him.747 With Veselnitskaya next to him, Kaveladze reported that the meeting had gone well, but he later told Aras Agalarov that the meeting about the Magnitsky Act had been a waste of time because it was not with lawyers and they were “preaching to the wrong crowd."748Veselnitskaya and Aras Agalarov made at least two unsuccessful attempts after the election to meet with Trump representatives to convey similar information about Browder and the Magnitsky Act.749 On November 23, 2016, Kaveladze emailed Goldstone about setting up another meeting “with T people” and sent a document bearing allegations similar to those conveyed on June 9.750 Kaveladze followed up with Goldstone, stating that “Mr. A,” which Goldstone understood to mean Aras Agalarov, called to ask about the meeting.751 Goldstone emailed the document to Rhona Graff, saying that “Aras Agalarov has asked me to pass on this document in the hope it can be passed on to the appropriate team. If needed, a lawyer representing the case is743 Kaveladze 11/16/17 302, at 8; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ Goldstone 2/8/18 302, at 9; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■744 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■745 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ The week after the June 9 meeting, a cybersecurity firm and the DNC announced the Russian hack of the DNC. See Volume I, Section III.B.2, supra. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ (and one text message shows) that, shortly after the DNC announcement, Goldstone made comments connecting the DNC hacking announcement to the June 9 meeting. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ OSC-KAV_00029 (6/14/16 Email, Goldstone to E. Agalarov &amp; Kaveladze (10:09 a.m.)). The investigation did not identify evidence connecting the events of June 9 to the GRU’s hack-and-dump operation. OSC-KAV_00029-30 (6/14/16 Email, Goldstone to E. Agalarov).746 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■747 Kaveladze 11/16/17 302, at 8; Call Records of Ike Kaveladze ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■748 Kaveladze 11/16/17 302, at 8; Call Records of Ike Kaveladze ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ On June 14, 2016 Kaveladze’s teenage daughter emailed asking how the June 9 meeting had gone, and Kaveladze responded, “meeting was boring. The Russians did not have any bad info on Hilary.” OSC-KAV_00257 (6/14/16 Email, I. Kaveladze to A. Kaveladze; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■749 Goldstone 2/8/18 302, at 11; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■750 OSC-KAV 00138 (11/23/16 Email, Goldstone to Kaveladze); ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■751 RG000196 (11/26-29/16 Text Messages, Goldstone &amp; Kaveladze); ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Vol. 1, Page 120in New York currently and happy to meet with any member of his transition team."752 According to Goldstone, around January 2017, Kaveladze contacted him again to set up another meeting, but Goldstone did not make the request.753 The investigation did not identify evidence of the transition team following up.Participants in the June 9, 2016 meeting began receiving inquiries from attorneys representing the Trump Organization starting in approximately June 2017.754 On approximately June 2, 2017, Goldstone spoke with Alan Garten, general counsel of the Trump Organization, about his participation in the June 9 meeting. 755 The same day, Goldstone emailed Veselnitskaya’s name to Garten, identifying her as the “woman who was the attorney who spoke at the meeting from Moscow."756 Later in June 2017, Goldstone participated in a lengthier call with Garten and Alan Futerfas, outside counsel for the Trump Organization (and, subsequently, personal counsel for Trump Jr.).757 On June 27, 2017, Goldstone emailed Emin Agalarov with the subject “Trump attorneys” and stated that he was “interviewed by attorneys” about the June 9 meeting who were “concerned because it links Don Jr. to officials from Russia — which he has always denied meeting."758 Goldstone stressed that he “did say at the time this was an awful idea and a terrible meeting."759 Emin Agalarov sent a screenshot of the message to Kaveladze.760The June 9 meeting became public in July 2017. In a July 9, 2017 text message to Emin Agalarov, Goldstone wrote “I made sure I kept you and your father out of [t]his story,"761 and “[i]f contacted I can do a dance and keep you out of it.".762 Goldstone added, “FBI now investigating,” and “I hope this favor was worth for your dad — it could blow up."763 On July 12, 2017 Emin Agalarov complained to Kaveladze that his father, Aras, “never listens” to him and that their752 Goldstone 2/8/18 302, at 11; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ DJTJR00118 (11/28/16 Email, Goldstone to Graff).753 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■754 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■755 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■756 RG000256 (6/2/17 Email, Goldstone to Garten).757 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■758 RG000092 (6/27/17 Email, Goldstone to E. Agalarov).759 RG000092 (6/27/17 Email, Goldstone to E. Agalarov). ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■760 OSC-KAV_01190 (6/27/17 Text Message, E. Agalarov to Kaveladze).761 RG000286-87 (7/9/17 Text Messages, E. Agalarov &amp; Goldstone); ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■762 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■763 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Vol. 1, Page 121relationship with “mr T has been thrown down the drain."764 The next month, Goldstone commented to Emin Agalarov about the volume of publicity the June 9 meeting had generated, stating that his reputation [was] basically destroyed by this dumb meeting which your father insisted on even though Ike and Me told him would be bad news and not to do."765 Goldstone added, “I am not able to respond out of courtesy to you and your father. So am painted as some mysterious link to Putin."766After public reporting on the June 9 meeting began, representatives from the Trump Organization again reached out to participants. On July 10, 2017, Futerfas sent Goldstone an email with a proposed statement for Goldstone to issue, which read:■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ the statement drafted by Trump Organization representatives was ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ 1768 He proposed a different statement, asserting that he had been asked “by [his] client in Moscow — Emin Agalarov — to facilitate a meeting between a Russian attorney (Natalia Veselnitzkaya [sic]) and Donald Trump Jr. The lawyer had apparently stated that she had some information regarding funding to the DNC from Russia, which she believed Mr. Trump Jr. might find interesting."769 Goldstone never released either statement.770On the Russian end, there were also communications about what participants should say about the June 9 meeting. Specifically, the organization that hired Samochornov — an anti-Magnitsky Act group controlled by Veselnitskaya and the owner of Prevezon — offered to pay $90,000 of Samochornov’s legal fees. 771 At Veselnitskaya’s request, the organization sent Samochornov a transcript of a Veselnitskaya press interview, and Samochornov understood that the organization would pay his legal fees only if he made statements consistent with Veselnitskaya’s. 772 Samochornov declined, telling the Office that he did not want to perjure764 OSC-KAV 01197 (7/11-12/17 Text Messages, Kaveladze &amp; E. Agalarov); ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■765 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■766 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■767 7/10/17 Email, Goldstone to Futerfas &amp; Garten.768 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■769 7/10/17 Email, Goldstone to Futerfas &amp; Garten.770 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■771 Samochornov 7/13/17 302, at 1; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■772 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ Samochornov 7/13/17 302, at 1.Vol. 1, Page 122himself.773 The individual who conveyed Veselnitskaya’s request to Samochornov stated that he did not expressly condition payment on following Veselnitskaya’s answers but, in hindsight, recognized that by sending the transcript, Samochornov could have interpreted the offer of assistance to be conditioned on his not contradicting Veselnitskaya’s account."774Volume II, Section II.G, infra, discusses interactions between President Trump, Trump Jr., and others in June and July 2017 regarding the June 9 meeting.Trump Campaign officials met with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak during the week of the Republican National Convention. The evidence indicates that those interactions were brief and non-substantive. During platform committee meetings immediately before the Convention, J.D. Gordon, a senior Campaign advisor on policy and national security, diluted a proposed amendment to the Republican Party platform expressing support for providing “lethal” assistance to Ukraine in response to Russian aggression. Gordon requested that platform committee personnel revise the proposed amendment to state that only “appropriate” assistance be provided to Ukraine. The original sponsor of the “lethal” assistance amendment stated that Gordon told her (the sponsor) that he was on the phone with candidate Trump in connection with his request to dilute the language. Gordon denied making that statement to the sponsor, although he acknowledged it was possible he mentioned having previously spoken to the candidate about the subject matter. The investigation did not establish that Gordon spoke to or was directed by the candidate to make that proposal. Gordon said that he sought the change because he believed the proposed language was inconsistent with Trump’s position on Ukraine.In July 2016, Senator Sessions and Gordon spoke at the Global Partners in Diplomacy event, a conference co-sponsored by the State Department and the Heritage Foundation held in Cleveland, Ohio the same week as the Republican National Convention (RNC or “Convention").775 Approximately 80 foreign ambassadors to the United States, including Kislyak, were invited to the conference."776On July 20, 2016, Gordon and Sessions delivered their speeches at the conference.777 In his speech, Gordon stated in pertinent part that the United States should have better relations with773 Samochornov 7/13/17 302, at 1.774 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■775 Gordon 8/29/17 302, at 9; Sessions 1/17/18 302, at 22; Allan Smith, We Now Know More About why Jeff Sessions and a Russian Ambassador Crossed Paths at the Republican Convention, Business Insider (Mar. 2, 2017).776 Gordon 8/29/17 302, at 9; Laura DeMarco, Global Cleveland and Sen. Bob Corker Welcome International Republican National Convention Guests, Cleveland Plain Dealer (July 20, 2016).777 Gordon 8/29/17 302, at 9; Sessions 1/17/18 302, at 22.Vol. 1, Page 123Russia.778 During Sessions’s speech, he took questions from the audience, one of which may have been asked by Kislyak.779 When the speeches concluded, several ambassadors lined up to greet the speakers.780 Gordon shook hands with Kislyak and reiterated that he had meant what he said in the speech about improving U.S.-Russia relations.781 Sessions separately spoke with between six and 12 ambassadors, including Kislyak.782 Although Sessions stated during interviews with the Office that he had no specific recollection of what he discussed with Kislyak, he believed that the two spoke for only a few minutes and that they would have exchanged pleasantries and said some things about U.S.-Russia relations.783Later that evening, Gordon attended a reception as part of the conference.784 Gordon ran into Kislyak as the two prepared plates of food, and they decided to sit at the same table to eat.785 They were joined at that table by the ambassadors from Azerbaijan and Kazakhstan, and by Trump Campaign advisor Carter Page.786 As they ate, Gordon and Kislyak talked for what Gordon estimated to have been three to five minutes, during which Gordon again mentioned that he meant what he said in his speech about improving U.S.-Russia relations.787In preparation for the 2016 Convention, foreign policy advisors to the Trump Campaign, working with the Republican National Committee, reviewed the 2012 Convention’s foreign policy platform to identify divergence between the earlier platform and candidate Trump’s positions.788 The Campaign team discussed toning down language from the 2012 platform that identified Russia as the country’s number one threat, given the candidate’s belief that there needed to be better U.S. relations with Russia.789 The RNC Platform Committee sent the 2016 draft platform to the National Security and Defense Platform Subcommittee on July 10, 2016, the evening before its778 Gordon 8/29/17 302, at 9.779 Sessions 1/17/18 302, at 22; Luff 1/30/18 302, at 3.780 Gordon 8/29/17 302, at 9; Luff 1/30/18 302, at 3.781 Gordon 8/29/17 302, at 9.782 Sessions 1/17/18 302, at 22; Luff 1/30/18 302, at 3; see also Volume I, Section IV.A.4.b, supra (explaining that Sessions and Kislyak may have met three months before this encounter during a reception held on April 26, 2016, at the Mayflower Hotel).783 Sessions 1/17/18 302, at 22.784 Gordon 8/29/17 302, at 9-10.785 Gordon 8/29/17 302, at 9-10.786 Gordon 8/29/17 302, at 10; see also Volume I, Section IV.A.3.d, supra (explaining that Page acknowledged meeting Kislyak at this event).787 Gordon 8/29/17 302, at 10.788 Gordon 8/29/17 302, at 10.789 Gordon 8/29/17 302, at 10.Vol. 1, Page 124first meeting to propose amendments.790Although only delegates could participate in formal discussions and vote on the platform, the Trump Campaign could request changes, and members of the Trump Campaign attended committee meetings.791 John Mashburn, the Campaign’s policy director, helped oversee the Campaign’s involvement in the platform committee meetings.792 He told the Office that he directed Campaign staff at the Convention, including J.D. Gordon, to take a hands-off approach and only to challenge platform planks if they directly contradicted Trump’s wishes.793On July 11, 2016, delegate Diana Denman submitted a proposed platform amendment that included provision of armed support for Ukraine.794 The amendment described Russia’s “ongoing military aggression” in Ukraine and announced “support” for “maintaining (and, if warranted, increasing) sanctions against Russia until Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity are fully restored” and for providing lethal defensive weapons to Ukraine’s armed forces and greater coordination with NATO on defense planning."795 Gordon reviewed the proposed platform changes, including Denman’s.796 Gordon stated that he flagged this amendment because of Trump’s stated position on Ukraine, which Gordon personally heard the candidate say at the March 31 foreign policy meeting — namely, that the Europeans should take primary responsibility for any assistance to Ukraine, that there should be improved U.S.-Russia relations, and that he did not want to start World War III over that region.797 Gordon told the Office that Trump’s statements on the campaign trail following the March meeting underscored those positions to the point where Gordon felt obliged to object to the proposed platform change and seek its dilution.798On July 11, 2016, at a meeting of the National Security and Defense Platform Subcommittee, Denman offered her amendment.799 Gordon and another Campaign staffer, Matt Miller, approached a committee co-chair and asked him to table the amendment to permit further discussion.800 Gordon’s concern with the amendment was the language about providing “lethal790 Gordon 8/29/17 302, at 10; Hoff 5/26/17 302, at 1-2.791 Hoff 5/26/17 302, at 1; Gordon 9/7/17 302, at 10.792 Mashburn 6/25/18 302, at 4; Manafort 9/20/18 302, at 7-8.793 Mashburn 6/25/18 302, at 4; Gordon 8/29/17 302, at 10.794 DENMAN 000001-02, DENMAN 000012, DENMAN 000021-22; Denman 12/4/17 302, at 1; Denman 6/7/17 302, at 2.795 DENMAN 000001-02, DENMAN 000012, DENMAN 000021-22.796 Gordon 8/29/17 302, at 10-11.797 Gordon 8/29/17 302, at 11; Gordon 9/7/17 302, at 11; Gordon 2/14/19 302, at 1-2, 5-6.798 Gordon 2/14/19 302, at 5-6.799 Denman 6/7/17 302, at 2; see DENMAN 000014.800 Denman 6/7/17 302, at 2; Denman 12/4/17 302, at 2; Gordon 9/7/17 302, at 11-12; see Hoff 5/26/17 302, at 2.Vol. 1, Page 125defensive weapons to Ukraine.801 Miller did not have any independent basis to believe that this language contradicted Trump’s views and relied on Gordon’s recollection of the candidate’s views.802According to Denman, she spoke with Gordon and Matt Miller, and they told her that they had to clear the language and that Gordon was “talking to New York."803 Denman told others that she was asked by the two Trump Campaign staffers to strike “lethal defense weapons” from the proposal but that she refused.804 Denman recalled Gordon saying that he was on the phone with candidate Trump, but she was skeptical whether that was true.805 Gordon denied having told Denman that he was on the phone with Trump, although he acknowledged it was possible that he mentioned having previously spoken to the candidate about the subject matter.806 Gordon’s phone records reveal a call to Sessions’s office in Washington that afternoon, but do not include calls directly to a number associated with Trump.807 And according to the President’s written answers to the Office’s questions, he does not recall being involved in the change in language of the platform amendment.808Gordon stated that he tried to reach Rick Dearborn, a senior foreign policy advisor, and Mashburn, the Campaign policy director. Gordon stated that he connected with both of them (he could not recall if by phone or in person) and apprised them of the language he took issue with in the proposed amendment. Gordon recalled no objection by either Dearborn or Mashburn and that all three Campaign advisors supported the alternative formulation ("appropriate assistance").809 Dearborn recalled Gordon warning them about the amendment, but not weighing in because Gordon was more familiar with the Campaign’s foreign policy stance.810 Mashburn stated that Gordon reached him, and he told Gordon that Trump had not taken a stance on the issue and that the Campaign should not intervene.811When the amendment came up again in the committee’s proceedings, the subcommittee changed the amendment by striking the “lethal defense weapons” language and replacing it with801 Denman 6/7/17 302, at 3.802 M. Miller 10/25/17 302 at 3.803 Denman 12/4/17 302, at 2; Denman 6/7/17 302, at 2.804 Hoff 5/26/17 302, at 2.805 Denman 6/7/17 302, at 2-3, 3-4; Denman 12/4/17 302, at 2.806 Gordon 2/14/19 302, at 7.807 Call Records of J.D. Gordon ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■. Gordon stated to the Office that his calls with Sessions were unrelated to the platform change. Gordon 2/14/19 302, at 7.808 Written Responses of Donald J. Trump (Nov. 20, 2018), at 17 (Response to Question IV, Part (f)).809 Gordon 2/14/19 302, at 6-7; Gordon 9/7/17 302, at 11-12; see Gordon 8/29/17 302, at 11.810 Dearborn 11/28/17 302, at 7-8.811 Mashburn 6/25/18 302, at 4. 126Vol. 1, Page 126"appropriate assistance."812 Gordon stated that he and the subcommittee co-chair ultimately agreed to replace the language about armed assistance with “appropriate assistance."813 The subcommittee accordingly approved Denman’s amendment but with the term “appropriate assistance."814 Gordon stated that, to his recollection, this was the only change sought by the Campaign.815 Sam Clovis, the Campaign’s national co-chair and chief policy advisor, stated he was surprised by the change and did not believe it was in line with Trump’s stance.816 Mashburn stated that when he saw the word “appropriate assistance,” he believed that Gordon had violated Mashburn’s directive not to intervene.817Ambassador Kislyak continued his efforts to interact with Campaign officials with responsibility for the foreign-policy portfolio — among them Sessions and Gordon — in the weeks after the Convention. The Office did not identify evidence in those interactions of coordination between the Campaign and the Russian government.On August 3, 2016, an official from the Embassy of the Russian Federation in the United States wrote to Gordon “[o]n behalf of Ambassador Kislyak inviting Gordon “to have breakfast/tea with the Ambassador at his residence” in Washington, D.C. the following week.818 Gordon responded five days later to decline the invitation. He wrote, “[t]hese days are not optimal for us, as we are busily knocking down a constant stream of false media stories while also preparing for the first debate with HRC. Hope to take a raincheck for another time when things quiet down a bit. Please pass along my regards to the Ambassador.819 The investigation did not identify evidence that Gordon made any other arrangements to meet (or met) with Kislyak after this email.Also in August 2016, a representative of the Russian Embassy contacted Sessions’s Senate office about setting up a meeting with Kislyak.820 At the time, Sessions was a member of the812 Hoff 5/26/17 302, at 2-3; see Denman 12/4/17 302, at 2-3; Gordon 8/29/17 302, at 11.813 Gordon 8/29/17 302, at 11; Gordon 9/7/17 302, at 12.814 Hoff 5/26/17 302, at 2-3.815 Gordon 2/14/19 302, at 6.816 Clovis 10/3/17 302, at 10-11.817 Mashburn 6/25/18 302, at 4.818 DJTFP00004828 (8/3/16 Email, Pchelyakov [embassy@russianembassy.org] to Gordon).819 DJTFP00004953 (8/8/16 Email, Gordon to embassy@russianembassy.org).820 Luff 1/30/18 302, at 5.Vol. 1, Page 127Senate Foreign Relations Committee and would meet with foreign officials in that capacity.821 But Sessions’s staff reported, and Sessions himself acknowledged, that meeting requests from ambassadors increased substantially in 2016, as Sessions assumed a prominent role in the Trump Campaign and his name was mentioned for potential cabinet-level positions in a future Trump Administration.822On September 8, 2016, Sessions met with Kislyak in his Senate office.823 Sessions said that he believed he was doing the Campaign a service by meeting with foreign ambassadors, including Kislyak.824 He was accompanied in the meeting by at least two of his Senate staff: Sandra Luff, his legislative director; and Pete Landrum, who handled military affairs.825 The meeting lasted less than 30 minutes. 826 Sessions voiced concerns about Russia’s sale of a missile-defense system to Iran, Russian planes buzzing U.S. military assets in the Middle East, and Russian aggression in emerging democracies such as Ukraine and Moldova. 827 Kislyak offered explanations on these issues and complained about NATO land forces in former Soviet-bloc countries that border Russia. 828 Landrum recalled that Kislyak referred to the presidential campaign as “an interesting campaign,"829 and Sessions also recalled Kislyak saying that the Russian government was receptive to the overtures Trump had laid out during his campaign.830 None of the attendees, though, remembered any discussion of Russian election interference or any request that Sessions convey information from the Russian government to the Trump Campaign.831During the meeting, Kislyak invited Sessions to further discuss U.S.-Russia relations with him over a meal at the ambassador’s residence.832 Sessions was non-committal when Kislyak extended the invitation. After the meeting ended, Luff advised Sessions against accepting the one-on-one meeting with Kislyak, whom she assessed to be an “old school KGB guy.833 Neither Luff nor Landrum recalled that Sessions followed up on the invitation or made any further effort to dine821 Sessions 1/17/18 302, at 23-24; Luff 1/30/18 302, at 5.822 Sessions 1/17/18 302, at 23-24; Luff 1/30/18 302, at 5; Landrum 2/27/18 302, at 3-5.823 Sessions 1/17/18 302, at 23.824 Sessions 1/17/18 302, at 23.825 Sessions 1/17/18 302, at 23; Luff 1/30/18 302, at 5-6; Landrum 2/27/18 302, at 4-5 (stating he could not remember if election was discussed).826 Luff 1/30/18 302, at 6; Landrum 2/27/18 302, at 5.827 Luff 1/30/18 302, at 6; Landrum 2/27/18 302, at 4-5.828 Luff 1/30/18 302, at 6; Landrum 2/27/18 302 at 4-5.829 Landrum 2/27/18 302, at 5.830 Sessions 1/17/18 302, at 23. Sessions also noted that ambassadors came to him for information about Trump and hoped he would pass along information to Trump. Sessions 1/17/18 302, at 23-24.831 Sessions 1/17/18 302, at 23; Luff 1/30/18 302, at 6; Landrum 2/27/18 302, at 5.832 Luff 1/30/18 302, at 5; Landrum 2/27/18 302, at 4.833 Luff 1/30/18 302, at 5.Vol. 1, Page 128or meet with Kislyak before the November 2016 election.834 Sessions and Landrum recalled that, after the election, some efforts were made to arrange a meeting between Sessions and Kislyak. 835 According to Sessions, the request came through CNI and would have involved a meeting between Sessions and Kislyak, two other ambassadors, and the Governor of Alabama.836 Sessions, however, was in New York on the day of the anticipated meeting and was unable to attend.837 The investigation did not identify evidence that the two men met at any point after their September 8 meetingPaul Manafort served on the Trump Campaign, including a period as campaign chairman, from March to August 2016.838 Manafort had connections to Russia through his prior work for Russian oligarch Oleg Deripaska and later through his work for a pro-Russian regime in Ukraine. Manafort stayed in touch with these contacts during the campaign period through Konstantin Kilimnik, a longtime Manafort employee who previously ran Manafort’s office in Kiev and who the FBI assesses to have ties to Russian intelligence.Manafort instructed Rick Gates, his deputy on the Campaign and a longtime employee, 839 to provide Kilimnik with updates on the Trump Campaign — including internal polling data, although Manafort claims not to recall that specific instruction. Manafort expected Kilimnik to share that information with others in Ukraine and with Deripaska. Gates periodically sent such polling data to Kilimnik during the campaign.834 Luff 1/30/18 302, at 6; Landrum 2/27/18 302, at 4-5.835 Sessions 1/17/18 302, at 23.836 Sessions 1/17/18 302, at 23.837 Sessions 1/17/18 302, at 23.838 On August 21, 2018, Manafort was convicted in the Eastern District of Virginia on eight tax, Foreign Bank Account Registration (FBAR), and bank fraud charges. On September 14, 2018, Manafort pleaded guilty in the District of Columbia to (1) conspiracy to defraud the United States and conspiracy to commit offenses against the United States (money laundering, tax fraud, FBAR, Foreign Agents Registration Act (FARA), and FARA false statements), and (2) conspiracy to obstruct justice (witness tampering). Manafort also admitted criminal conduct with which he had been charged in the Eastern District of Virginia, but as to which the jury hung. The conduct at issue in both cases involved Manafort’s work in Ukraine and the money he earned for that work, as well as crimes after the Ukraine work ended. On March 7, 2019, Manafort was sentenced to 47 months of imprisonment in the Virginia prosecution. On March 13, the district court in D.C. sentenced Manafort to a total term of 73 months: 60 months on the Count 1 conspiracy (with 30 of those months to run concurrent to the Virginia sentence), and 13 months on the Count 1 conspiracy, to be served consecutive to the other two sentences. The two sentences resulted in a total term of 90 months.839 As noted in Volume 1, Section III.D.1.b, supra, Gates pleaded guilty to two criminal charges in the District of Columbia, including making a false statement to the FBI, pursuant to a plea agreement. He has provided information and in-court testimony that the Office has deemed to be reliable. See also Transcript at 16, United States v. Paul J. Manafort, Jr., 1:17-cr-201 (D.D.C. Feb. 13, 2019), Doc. 514 ("Manafort 2/13/19 Transcript") (court’s explanation of reasons to credit Gates’s statements in one instance).Vol. 1, Page 129Manafort also twice met Kilimnik in the United States during the campaign period and conveyed campaign information. The second meeting took place on August 2, 2016, in New York City. Kilimnik requested the meeting to deliver in person a message from former Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych, who was then living in Russia. The message was about a peace plan for Ukraine that Manafort has since acknowledged was a “backdoor” means for Russia to control eastern Ukraine. Several months later, after the presidential election, Kilimnik wrote an email to Manafort expressing the view — which Manafort later said he shared — that the plan’s success would require U.S. support to succeed: “all that is required to start the process is a very minor ‘wink’ (or slight push) from [Donald Trump]."840 The email also stated that if Manafort were designated as the U.S. representative and started the process, Yanukovych would ensure his reception in Russia “at the very top level.”Manafort communicated with Kilimnik about peace plans for Ukraine on at least four occasions after their first discussion of the topic on August 2: December 2016 (the Kilimnik email described above); January 2017; February 2017; and again in the spring of 2018. The Office reviewed numerous Manafort email and text communications, and asked President Trump about the plan in written questions.841 The investigation did not uncover evidence of Manafort’s passing along information about Ukrainian peace plans to the candidate or anyone else in the Campaign or the Administration. The Office was not, however, able to gain access to all of Manafort’s electronic communications in some instances, messages were sent using encryption applications). And while Manafort denied that he spoke to members of the Trump Campaign or the new Administration about the peace plan, he lied to the Office and the grand jury about the peace plan and his meetings with Kilimnik, and his unreliability on this subject was among the reasons that the district judge found that he breached his cooperation agreement.842The Office could not reliably determine Manafort’s purpose in sharing internal polling data with Kilimnik during the campaign period. Manafort ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ did not see a downside to sharing campaign information, and told Gates that his role in the Campaign would840 The email was drafted in Kilimnik’s DMP email account (in English)■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■841 According to the President’s written answers, he does not remember Manafort communicating to him any particular positions that Ukraine or Russia would want the United States to support. Written Responses of Donald J. Trump (Nov. 20, 2018), at 16-17 (Response to Question IV, Part (d)).842 Manafort made several false statements during debriefings. Based on that conduct, the Office determined that Manafort had breached his plea agreement and could not be a cooperating witness. The judge presiding in Manafort’s D.C. criminal case found by a preponderance of the evidence that Manafort intentionally made multiple false statements to the FBI, the Office, and the grand jury concerning his interactions and communications with Kilimnik (and concerning two other issues). Although the report refers at times to Manafort’s statements, it does so only when those statements are sufficiently corroborated to be trustworthy, to identify issues on which Manafort’s untruthful responses may themselves be of evidentiary value, or to provide Manafort’s explanations for certain events, even when we were unable to determine whether that explanation was credible.Vol. 1, Page 130be “good for business” and potentially a way to be made whole for work he previously completed in the Ukraine. As to Deripaska, Manafort claimed that by sharing campaign information with him, Deripaska might see value in their relationship and resolve a “disagreement”—a reference to one or more outstanding lawsuits. Because of questions about Manafort’s credibility and our limited ability to gather evidence on what happened to the polling data after it was sent to Kilimnik, the Office could not assess what Kilimnik (or others he may have given it to) did with it. The Office did not identify evidence of a connection between Manafort’s sharing polling data and Russia’s interference in the election, which had already been reported by U.S. media outlets at the time of the August 2 meeting. The investigation did not establish that Manafort otherwise coordinated with the Russian government on its election-interference efforts.Manafort’s Russian contacts during the campaign and transition periods stem from his consulting work for Deripaska from approximately 2005 to 2009 and his separate political consulting work in Ukraine from 2005 to 2015, including through his company DMP International LLC (DMI). Kilimnik worked for Manafort in Kiev during this entire period and continued to communicate with Manafort through at least June 2018. Kilimnik, who speaks and writes Ukrainian and Russian, facilitated many of Manafort’s communications with Deripaska and Ukrainian oligarchs.In approximately 2005, Manafort began working for Deripaska, a Russian oligarch who has a global empire involving aluminum and power companies and who is closely aligned with Vladimir Putin.843 A memorandum describing work that Manafort performed for Deripaska in 2005 regarding the post-Soviet republics referenced the need to brief the Kremlin and the benefits that the work could confer on “the Putin Government.?"844 Gates described the work Manafort did for Deripaska as “political risk insurance,” and explained that Deripaska used Manafort to install friendly political officials in countries where Deripaska had business interests.845 Manafort’s company earned tens of millions of dollars from its work for Deripaska and was loaned millions of dollars by Deripaska as well.846In 2007, Deripaska invested through another entity in Pericles Emerging Market Partners L.P. ("Pericles”), an investment fund created by Manafort and former Manafort business partner Richard Davis. The Pericles fund was established to pursue investments in Eastern Europe.847 Deripaska was the sole investor.848 Gates stated in interviews with the Office that the venture led843 Pinchuk et al., Russian Tycoon Deripaska in Putin Delegation to China, Reuters (June 8, 2018).844 6/23/05 Memo, Manafort &amp; Davis to Deripaska &amp; Rothchild.845 Gates 2/2/18 302, at 7.846 Manafort 9/20/18 302, at 2-5; Manafort Income by Year, 2005–2015; Manafort Loans from Wire Transfers, 2005–2015.847 Gates 3/12/18 302, at 5.848 Manafort 12/16/15 Dep., at 157:8-11.Vol. 1, Page 131to a deterioration of the relationship between Manafort and Deripaska.849 In particular, when the fund failed, litigation between Manafort and Deripaska ensued. Gates stated that, by 2009, Manafort’s business relationship with Deripaska had “dried up."850 According to Gates, various interactions with Deripaska and his intermediaries over the past few years have involved trying to resolve the legal dispute.851 As described below, in 2016, Manafort, Gates, Kilimnik, and others engaged in efforts to revive the Deripaska relationship and resolve the litigation.Through Deripaska, Manafort was introduced to Rinat Akhmetov, a Ukrainian oligarch who hired Manafort as a political consultant.852 In 2005, Akhmetov hired Manafort to engage in political work supporting the Party of Regions,853 a political party in Ukraine that was generally understood to align with Russia. Manafort assisted the Party of Regions in regaining power, and its candidate, Viktor Yanukovych, won the presidency in 2010. Manafort became a close and trusted political advisor to Yanukovych during his time as President of Ukraine. Yanukovych served in that role until 2014, when he fled to Russia amidst popular protests.854Kilimnik is a Russian national who has lived in both Russia and Ukraine and was a longtime Manafort employee.855 Kilimnik had direct and close access to Yanukovych and his senior entourage, and he facilitated communications between Manafort and his clients, including Yanukovych and multiple Ukrainian oligarchs.856 Kilimnik also maintained a relationship with Deripaska’s deputy, Viktor Boyarkin,857 a Russian national who previously served in the defense attaché office of the Russian Embassy to the United States.858849 Gates 2/2/18 302, at 9.850 Gates 2/2/18 302, at 6.851 Gates 2/2/18 302, at 9-10.852 Manafort 7/30/14 302, at 1; Manafort 9/20/18 302, at 2.853 Manafort 9/11/18 302, at 5-6.854 Gates 3/16/18 302, at 1; Davis 2/8/18 302, at 9; Devine 7/6/18 302, at 2-3.855 Patten 5/22/18 302, at 5; Gates 1/29/18 302, at 18-19; 10/28/97 Kilimnik Visa Record, U.S. Department of State.856 Gates 1/29/18 302, at 18-19; Patten 5/22/18 302, at 8; Gates 1/31/18 302, at 4-5; Gates 1/30/18 302, at 2; Gates 2/2/18 302, at 11.857 Gates 1/29/18 302, at 18; Patten 5/22/18 302, at 8.858 Boyarkin Visa Record, U.S. Department of State.Vol. 1, Page 132Manafort told the Office that he did not believe Kilimnik was working as a Russian “spy.859 The FBI, however, assesses that Kilimnik has ties to Russian intelligence.860 Several pieces of the Office’s evidence — including witness interviews and emails obtained through court-authorized search warrants — support that assessment:859 Manafort 9/11/18 302, at 5.860 The Office has noted Kilimnik’s assessed ties to Russian intelligence in public court filings. E.g., Gov’t Opp. to Mot. to Modify, United States v. Paul J. Manafort, Jr., 1:17-cr-201 (D.D.C. Dec. 4, 2017), Doc. 73, at 2 (“Manafort (D.D.C.) Gov’t Opp. to Mot. to Modify”).861 12/17/16 Kilimnik Visa Record, U.S. Department of State.862 In August 2018, Patten pleaded guilty pursuant to a plea agreement to violating the Foreign Agents Registration Act, and admitted in his Statement of Offense that he also misled and withheld documents from the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence in the course of its investigation of Russian election interference. Plea Agreement, United States v. W. Samuel Patten, 1:18-cr-260 (D.D.C. Aug. 31, 2018), Doc. 6; Statement of Offense, United States v. W. Samuel Patten, 1:18-cr-260 (D.D.C. Aug. 31, 2018), Doc. 7.863 Patten 5/22/18 302, at 5-6.864 10/28/97 Kilimnik Visa Record, U.S. Department of State.865 Nix 3/30/18 302, at 1-2.866 Nix 3/30/18 302, at 2.867 Lenzi 1/30/18 302, at 2.Vol. 1, Page 133■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Manafort served on the Trump Campaign from late March to August 19, 2016. On March 29, 2016, the Campaign announced that Manafort would serve as the Campaign’s “Convention Manager."871 On May 19, 2016, Manafort was promoted to campaign chairman and chief strategist, and Gates, who had been assisting Manafort on the Campaign, was appointed deputy campaign chairman.872Thomas Barrack and Roger Stone both recommended Manafort to candidate Trump.873 In early 2016, at Manafort’s request, Barrack suggested to Trump that Manafort join the Campaign to manage the Republican Convention.874 Stone had worked with Manafort from approximately 1980 until the mid-1990s through various consulting and lobbying firms. Manafort met Trump in 1982 when Trump hired the Black, Manafort, Stone and Kelly lobbying firm.875 Over the years, Manafort saw Trump at political and social events in New York City and at Stone’s wedding, and Trump requested VIP status at the 1988 and 1996 Republican conventions worked by Manafort.876868 Hawker 1/9/18 302, at 13; 3/18/14 Email, Hawker &amp; Tulukbaev.869 van der Zwaan pleaded guilty in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia to making false statements to the Special Counsel’s Office. Plea Agreement, United States v. Alex van der Zwaan, 1:18-cr-31 (D.D.C. Feb. 20, 2018), Doc. 8.870 Hawker 6/9/18 302, at 4; van der Zwaan 11/3/17 302, at 22. Manafort said in an interview that Gates had joked with Kilimnik about Kilimnik’s going to meet with his KGB handler. Manafort 10/16/18 302, at 7.871 Press Release – Donald J. Trump Announces Campaign Convention Manager Paul J. Manafort, The American Presidency Project - U.C. Santa Barbara (Mar. 29, 2016).872 Gates 1/29/18 302, at 8; Meghan Keneally, Timeline of Manafort’s role in the Trump Campaign, ABC News (Oct. 20, 2017).873 Gates 1/29/18 302, at 7-8; Manafort 9/11/18 302, at 1-2; Barrack 12/12/17 302, at 3.874 Barrack 12/12/17 302, at 3; Gates 1/29/18 302, at 7-8.875 Manafort 10/16/18 302, at 6.876 Manafort 10/16/18 302, at 6.Vol. 1, Page 134According to Gates, in March 2016, Manafort traveled to Trump’s Mar-a-Lago estate in Florida to meet with Trump. Trump hired him at that time.877 Manafort agreed to work on the Campaign without pay. Manafort had no meaningful income at this point in time, but resuscitating his domestic political campaign career could be financially beneficial in the future. Gates reported that Manafort intended, if Trump won the Presidency, to remain outside the Administration and monetize his relationship with the Administration.878Immediately upon joining the Campaign, Manafort directed Gates to prepare for his review separate memoranda addressed to Deripaska, Akhmetov, Serhiy Lyovochkin, and Boris Kolesnikov,879 the last three being Ukrainian oligarchs who were senior Opposition Bloc officials.880 The memoranda described Manafort’s appointment to the Trump Campaign and indicated his willingness to consult on Ukrainian politics in the future. On March 30, 2016, Gates emailed the memoranda and a press release announcing Manafort’s appointment to Kilimnik for translation and dissemination.881 Manafort later followed up with Kilimnik to ensure his messages had been delivered, emailing on April 11, 2016 to ask whether Kilimnik had shown “our friends” the media coverage of his new role.882 Kilimnik replied, “Absolutely. Every article.” Manafort further asked: “How do we use to get whole. Has Ovd [Oleg Vladimirovich Deripaska] operation seen?” Kilimnik wrote back the same day, “Yes, I have been sending everything to Victor [Boyarkin, Deripaska’s deputy], who has been forwarding the coverage directly to OVD."883Gates reported that Manafort said that being hired on the Campaign would be good for business” and increase the likelihood that Manafort would be paid the approximately $2 million he was owed for previous political consulting work in Ukraine.884 Gates also explained to the Office that Manafort thought his role on the Campaign could help “confirm” that Deripaska had dropped the Pericles lawsuit, and that Gates believed Manafort sent polling data to Deripaska (as877 Gates 2/2/18 302, at 10.878 Gates 1/30/18 302, at 4.879 Gates 2/2/18 302, at 11.880 See Sharon LaFraniere, Manafort’s Trial Isn’t About Russia, but It Will Be in the Air, New York Times (July 30, 2018); Tierney Sneed, Prosecutors Believe Manafort Made $60 Million Consulting in Ukraine, Talking Points Memo (July 30, 2018); Mykola Vorobiov, How Pro-Russian Forces Will Take Revenge on Ukraine, Atlantic Council (Sept. 23, 2018); Sergii Leshchenko, Ukraine’s Oligarchs Are Still Calling the Shots, Foreign Policy (Aug. 14, 2014); Interfax-Ukraine, Kolesnikov: Inevitability of Punishment Needed for Real Fight Against Smuggling in Ukraine, Kyiv Post (June 23, 2018); Igor Kossov, Kyiv Hotel Industry Makes Room for New Entrants, Kyiv Post (Mar. 7, 2019); Markian Kuzmowycz, How the Kremlin Can Win Ukraine’s Elections, Atlantic Council (Nov. 19, 2018). The Opposition Bloc is a Ukraine political party that largely reconstituted the Party of Regions.881 3/30/16 Email, Gates to Kilimnik.882 4/11/16 Email, Manafort &amp; Kilimnik.883 4/11/16 Email, Manafort &amp; Kilimnik.884 Gates 2/2/18 302, at 10.Vol. 1, Page 135discussed further below) so that Deripaska would not move forward with his lawsuit against Manafort.885 Gates further stated that Deripaska wanted a visa to the United States, that Deripaska could believe that having Manafort in a position inside the Campaign or Administration might be helpful to Deripaska, and that Manafort’s relationship with Trump could help Deripaska in other ways as well.886 Gates stated, however, that Manafort never told him anything specific about what, if anything, Manafort might be offering Deripaska.887Gates also reported that Manafort instructed him in April 2016 or early May 2016 to send Kilimnik Campaign internal polling data and other updates so that Kilimnik, in turn, could share it with Ukrainian oligarchs.888 Gates understood that the information would also be shared with Deripaska, ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■889 Gates reported to the Office that he did not know why Manafort wanted him to send polling information, but Gates thought it was a way to showcase Manafort’s work, and Manafort wanted to open doors to jobs after the Trump Campaign ended.890 Gates said that Manafort’s instruction included sending internal polling data prepared for the Trump Campaign by pollster Tony Fabrizio.891 Fabrizio had worked with Manafort for years and was brought into the Campaign by Manafort. Gates stated that, in accordance with Manafort’s instruction, he periodically sent Kilimnik polling data via WhatsApp; Gates then deleted the communications on a daily basis.892 Gates further told the Office that, after Manafort left the Campaign in mid-August, Gates sent Kilimnik polling data less frequently and that the data he sent was more publicly available information and less internal data.893Gates’s account about polling data is consistent ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■894 ■■■■■■■■■ with multiple emails that Kilimnik sent to U.S. associates and press contacts between late July and mid-August of 2016. Those emails referenced “internal polling,” described the status of the Trump Campaign and L 94885 Gates 2/2/18 302, at 11; Gates 9/27/18 302 (serial 740), at 2.886 Gates 2/2/18 302, at 12.887 Gates 2/2/18 302, at 12.888 Gates 1/31/18 302, at 17; Gates 9/27/18 302 (serial 740), at 2. In a later interview with the Office, Gates stated that Manafort directed him to send polling data to Kilimnik after a May 7, 2016 meeting between Manafort and Kilimnik in New York, discussed in Volume I, Section IV.A.8.b.iii, infra. Gates 11/7/18 302, at 3.889 Gates 9/27/18 302, Part II, at 2; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■890 Gates 2/12/18 302, at 10; Gates 1/31/18 302, at 17.891 Gates 9/27/18 302 (serial 740), at 2; Gates 2/7/18 302, at 15.892 Gates 1/31/18 302, at 17.893 Gates 2/12/18 302, at 11-12. According to Gates, his access to internal polling data was more limited because Fabrizio was himself distanced from the Campaign at that point.894 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Vol. 1, Page 136Manafort’s role in it, and assessed Trump’s prospects for victory.895 Manafort did not acknowledge instructing Gates to send Kilimnik internal data, ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■896The Office also obtained contemporaneous emails that shed light on the purpose of the communications with Deripaska and that are consistent with Gates’s account. For example, in response to a July 7, 2016, email from a Ukrainian reporter about Manafort’s failed Deripaska-backed investment, Manafort asked Kilimnik whether there had been any movement on this issue with our friend."897 Gates stated that “our friend” likely referred to Deripaska,898 and Manafort told the Office that the “issue” (and “our biggest interest,” as stated below) was a solution to the Deripaska-Pericles issue.899 Kilimnik replied:I am carefully optimistic on the question of our biggest interest.Our friend [Boyarkin) said there is lately significantly more attention to the campaign in his boss’ [Deripaska’s] mind, and he will be most likely looking for ways to reach out to you pretty soon, understanding all the time sensitivity. I am more than sure that it will be resolved and we will get back to the original relationship with V.’s boss [Deripaska].900Eight minutes later, Manafort replied that Kilimnik should tell Boyarkin’s “boss,” a reference to Deripaska, “that if he needs private briefings we can accommodate."901 Manafort has alleged to the Office that he was willing to brief Deripaska only on public campaign matters and gave an example: why Trump selected Mike Pence as the Vice-Presidential running mate.902 Manafort said he never gave Deripaska a briefing.903 Manafort noted that if Trump won, Deripaska would want to use Manafort to advance whatever interests Deripaska had in the United States and elsewhere.904895 8/18/16 Email, Kilimnik to Dirkse; 8/18/16 Email, Kilimnik to Schultz; 8/18/16 Email, Kilimnik to Marson; 7/27/16 Email, Kilimnik to Ash; 8/18/16 Email, Kilimnik to Ash; 8/18/16 Email, Kilimnik to Jackson; 8/18/16 Email, Kilimnik to Mendoza-Wilson; 8/19/16 Email, Kilimnik to Patten.896 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■897 7/7/16 Email, Manafort to Kilimnik.898 Gates 2/2/18 302, at 13.899 Manafort 9/11/18 302, at 6.900 7/8/16 Email, Kilimnik to Manafort.901 7/8/16 Email, Kilimnik to Manafort; Gates 2/2/18 302, at 13.902 Manafort 9/11/18 302, at 6.903 Manafort 9/11/18 302, at 6.904 Manafort 9/11/18 302, at 6.Vol. 1, Page 137Manafort twice met with Kilimnik in person during the campaign periodonce in May and again in August 2016. The first meeting took place on May 7, 2016, in New York City.905 In the days leading to the meeting, Kilimnik had been working to gather information about the political situation in Ukraine. That included information gleaned from a trip that former Party of Regions official Yuriy Boyko had recently taken to Moscow — a trip that likely included meetings between Boyko and high-ranking Russian officials.906 Kilimnik then traveled to Washington, D.C. on or about May 5, 2016; while in Washington, Kilimnik had pre-arranged meetings with State Department employees.907Late on the evening of May 6, Gates arranged for Kilimnik to take a 3:00 a.m. train to meet Manafort in New York for breakfast on May 7.908 According to Manafort, during the meeting, he and Kilimnik talked about events in Ukraine, and Manafort briefed Kilimnik on the Trump Campaign, expecting Kilimnik to pass the information back to individuals in Ukraine and elsewhere.909 Manafort stated that Opposition Bloc members recognized Manafort’s position on the Campaign was an opportunity, but Kilimnik did not ask for anything.910 Kilimnik spoke about a plan of Boyko to boost election participation in the eastern zone of Ukraine, which was the base for the Opposition Bloc.911 Kilimnik returned to Washington, D.C. right after the meeting with Manafort.Manafort met with Kilimnik a second time at the Grand Havana Club in New York City on the evening of August 2, 2016. The events leading to the meeting are as follows. On July 28, 2016, Kilimnik flew from Kiev to Moscow.912 The next day, Kilimnik wrote to Manafort requesting that they meet, using coded language about a conversation he had that day.913 In an email with a subject line “Black Caviar,” Kilimnik wrote:I met today with the guy who gave you your biggest black caviar jar several years ago. We spent about 5 hours talking about his story, and I have several important messages from him to you. He asked me to go and brief you on our conversation. I said I have to run it by you first, but in principle I am prepared to do it.... It has to do about the future of his905 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■906 4/26/16 Email, Kilimnik to Purcell, at 2; Gates 2/2/18 302, at 12; Patten 5/22/18 302, at 6-7; Gates 11/7/18 302, at 3.907 5/7/16 Email, Kilimnik to Charap &amp; Kimmage; 5/7/16 Email, Kasanof to Kilimnik.908 5/6/16 Email, Manafort to Gates; 5/6/16 Email, Gates to Kilimnik.909 Manafort 10/11/18 302, at 1.910 Manafort 10/11/18 302, at 1.911 Manafort 10/11/18 302, at 1.912 7/25/16 Email, Kilimnik to katrin@yana.kiev.ua (2:17:34 a.m.).913 7/29/16 Email, Kilimnik to Manafort (10:51 a.m.).Vol. 1, Page 138country, and is quite interesting.914Manafort identified “the guy who gave you your biggest black caviar jar” as Yanukovych. He explained that, in 2010, he and Yanukovych had lunch to celebrate the recent presidential election. Yanukovych gave Manafort a large jar of black caviar that was worth approximately $30,000 to $40,000.915 Manafort’s identification of Yanukovych as “the guy who gave you your biggest black caviar jar” is consistent with Kilimnik being in Moscow — where Yanukovych resided — when Kilimnik wrote “I met today with the guy,” and with a December 2016 email in which Kilimnik referred to Yanukovych as “BG,” ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■916 Manafort replied to Kilimnik’s July 29 email, “Tuesday [August 2] is best ... Tues or weds in NYC."917Three days later, on July 31, 2016, Kilimnik flew back to Kiey from Moscow, and on that same day, wrote to Manafort that he needed “about 2 hours” for their meeting “because it is a long caviar story to tell."918 Kilimnik wrote that he would arrive at JFK on August 2 at 7:30 p.m., and he and Manafort agreed to a late dinner that night.919 Documentary evidence — including flight, phone, and hotel records, and the timing of text messages exchanged920—confirms the dinner took place as planned on August 2.921As to the contents of the meeting itself, the accounts of Manafort and Gates — who arrived late to the dinner — differ in certain respects. But their versions of events, when assessed alongside available documentary evidence and what Kilimnik told business associate Sam Patten, indicate that at least three principal topics were discussed.First, Manafort and Kilimnik discussed a plan to resolve the ongoing political problems in Ukraine by creating an autonomous republic in its more industrialized eastern region of Donbas,922914 7/29/16 Email, Kilimnik to Manafort (10:51 a.m.).915 Manafort 9/12/18 302, at 3.916 7/29/16 Email, Manafort to Kilimnik; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■917 7/29/16 Email, Manafort to Kilimnik.918 7/31/16 Email, Manafort to Kilimnik.919 7/31/16 Email, Manafort to Kilimnik.920 Kilimnik 8/2/16 CBP Record; Call Records of Konstantin Kilimnik ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■; Call Records of Rick Gates ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■; 8/2-3/16, Kilimnik Park Lane Hotel Receipt.921 Deripaska’s private plane also flew to Teterboro Airport in New Jersey on the evening of August 2, 2016. According to Customs and Border Protection records, the only passengers on the plane were Deripaska’s wife, daughter, mother, and father-in-law, and separate records obtained by our Office confirm that Kilimnik flew on a commercial flight to New York.922 The Luhansk and Donetsk People’s Republics, which are located in the Donbas region of Ukraine, declared themselves independent in response to the popular unrest in 2014 that removed President Yanukovych from power. Pro-Russian Ukrainian militia forces, with backing from the Russian military, have occupied the region since 2014. Under the Yanukovych-backed plan, Russia would assist in withdrawing the military, and Donbas would become an autonomous region within Ukraine with its own prime minister. The plan emphasized that Yanukovych would be an ideal candidate to bring peace to the region as prime minister of the republic, and facilitate the reintegration of the region into Ukraine with the support of the U.S. and Russian presidents. As noted above, according to ■■■■■■■■■ the written documentation describing the plan, for the plan to work, both U.S. and Russian support were necessary. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ 2/21/18 Email, Manafort, Ward, &amp; Fabrizio, at 3-5.Vol. 1, Page 139and having Yanukovych, the Ukrainian President ousted in 2014, elected to head that republic.923 That plan, Manafort later acknowledged, constituted a “backdoor” means for Russia to control eastern Ukraine.924 Manafort initially said that, if he had not cut off the discussion, Kilimnik would have asked Manafort in the August 2 meeting to convince Trump to come out in favor of the peace plan, and Yanukovych would have expected Manafort to use his connections in Europe and Ukraine to support the plan.925 Manafort also initially told the Office that he had said to Kilimnik that the plan was crazy, that the discussion ended, and that he did not recall Kilimnik asking Manafort to reconsider the plan after their August 2 meeting.926 Manafort said ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ that he reacted negatively to Yanukovych sending — years later — an “urgent request when Yanukovych needed him.927 When confronted with an email written by Kilimnik on or about December 8, 2016, however, Manafort acknowledged Kilimnik raised the peace plan again in that email.928 Manafort ultimately acknowledged Kilimnik also raised the peace plan in January and February 2017 meetings with Manafort. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■929Second, Manafort briefed Kilimnik on the state of the Trump Campaign and Manafort’s plan to win the election.930 That briefing encompassed the Campaign’s messaging and its internal polling data. According to Gates, it also included discussion of “battleground” states, which Manafort identified as Michigan, Wisconsin, Pennsylvania, and Minnesota.931 Manafort did not refer explicitly to “battleground” states in his telling of the August 2 discussion, ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■932923 Manafort 9/11/18 302, at 4; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■924 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■925 Manafort 9/11/18 302, at 4.926 Manafort 9/12/18 302, at 4.927 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ Manafort 9/11/18 302, at 5; Manafort 9/12/18 302, at 4.928 Manafort 9/12/18 302, at 4; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■929 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ Documentary evidence confirms the peace-plan discussions in 2018. 2/19/18 Email, Fabrizio to Ward (forwarding email from Manafort); 2/21/18 Email, Manafort to Ward &amp; Fabrizio.930 Manafort 9/11/18 302, at 5.931 Gates 1/30/18 302, at 3, 5.932 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Vol. 1, Page 140Third, according to Gates and what Kilimnik told Patten, Manafort and Kilimnik discussed two sets of financial disputes related to Manafort’s previous work in the region. Those consisted of the unresolved Deripaska lawsuit and the funds that the Opposition Bloc owed to Manafort for his political consulting work and how Manafort might be able to obtain payment.933After the meeting, Gates and Manafort both stated that they left separately from Kilimnik because they knew the media was tracking Manafort and wanted to avoid media reporting on his connections to Kilimnik.934Manafort resigned from the Trump Campaign in mid-August 2016, approximately two weeks after his second meeting with Kilimnik, amidst negative media reporting about his political consulting work for the pro-Russian Party of Regions in Ukraine. Despite his resignation, Manafort continued to offer advice to various Campaign officials through the November election. Manafort told Gates that he still spoke with Kushner, Bannon, and candidate Trump,935 and some of those post-resignation contacts are documented in emails. For example, on October 21, 2016, Manafort sent Kushner an email and attached a strategy memorandum proposing that the Campaign make the case against Clinton “as the failed and corrupt champion of the establishment and that “Wikileaks provides the Trump campaign the ability to make the case in a very credible way — by using the words of Clinton, its campaign officials and DNC members."936 Later, in a November 5, 2016 email to Kushner entitled “Securing the Victory,” Manafort stated that he was “really feeling good about our prospects on Tuesday and focusing on preserving the victory,” and that he was concerned the Clinton Campaign would respond to a loss by “mov[ing] immediately to discredit the [Trump] victory and claim voter fraud and cyber-fraud, including the claim that the Russians have hacked into the voting machines and tampered with the results."937Trump was elected President on November 8, 2016. Manafort told the Office that, in the wake of Trump’s victory, he was not interested in an Administration job. Manafort instead preferred to stay on the “outside,” and monetize his campaign position to generate business given his familiarity and relationship with Trump and the incoming Administration.938 Manafort appeared to follow that plan, as he traveled to the Middle East, Cuba, South Korea, Japan, and China and was paid to explain what a Trump presidency would entail.939 Manafort’s activities in early 2017 included meetings relating to Ukraine and Russia. The933 Gates 1/30/18 302, at 2-4; Patten 5/22/18 302, at 7.934 Gates 1/30/18 302, at 5; Manafort 9/11/18 302, at 5.935 Gates 2/12/18 302, at 12.936 NOSC00021517-20 (10/21/16 Email, Manafort to Kushner).937 NOSC00021573-75 (11/5/16 Email, Manafort to Kushner).938 Manafort 9/12/18 302, at 1, 4-5; Gates 1/30/18 302, at 4.939 Manafort 9/12/18 302, at 1.Vol. 1, Page 141first meeting, which took place in Madrid, Spain in January 2017, was with Georgiy Oganov. Oganov, who had previously worked at the Russian Embassy in the United States, was a senior executive at a Deripaska company and was believed to report directly to Deripaska.940 Manafort initially denied attending the meeting. When he later acknowledged it, he claimed that the meeting had been arranged by his lawyers and concerned only the Pericles lawsuit.941 Other evidence, however, provides reason to doubt Manafort’s statement that the sole topic of the meeting was the Pericles lawsuit. In particular, text messages to Manafort from a number associated with Kilimnik suggest that Kilimnik and Boyarkin — not Manafort’s counsel — had arranged the meeting between Manafort and Oganov.942 Kilimnik’s message states that the meeting was supposed to be “not about money or Pericles” but instead “about recreating [the] old friendship”—ostensibly between Manafort and Deripaska—"and talking about global politics."943 Manafort also replied by text that he “need[s] this finished before Jan. 20,"944 which appears to be a reference to resolving Pericles before the inaugurationOn January 15, 2017, three days after his return from Madrid, Manafort emailed K.T. McFarland, who was at that time designated to be Deputy National Security Advisor and was formally appointed to that position on January 20, 2017.945 Manafort’s January 15 email to McFarland stated: “I have some important information I want to share that I picked up on my travels over the last month.946 Manafort told the Office that the email referred to an issue regarding Cuba, not Russia or Ukraine, and Manafort had traveled to Cuba in the past month.947 Either way, McFarland — who was advised by Flynn not to respond to the Manafort inquiry — appears not to have responded to Manafort.948Manafort told the Office that around the time of the Presidential Inauguration in January, he met with Kilimnik and Ukrainian oligarch Serhiy Lyovochkin at the Westin Hotel in Alexandria, Virginia.949 During this meeting, Kilimnik again discussed the Yanukovych peace plan that he had broached at the August 2 meeting and in a detailed December 8, 2016 message found in Kilimnik’s DMP email account.950 In that December 8 email, which Manafort940 Kalashnikova 5/17/18 302, at 4; Gary Lee, Soviet Embassy’s Identity Crisis, Washington Post (Dec. 20, 1991); Georgy S. Oganov Executive Profile &amp; Biography, Bloomberg (Mar. 12, 2019).941 Manafort 9/11/18 302, at 7.942 Text Message, Manafort &amp; Kilimnik.943 Text Message, Manafort &amp; Kilimnik; Manafort 9/12/18 302, at 5.944 Text Message, Manafort &amp; Kilimnik.945 1/15/17 Email, Manafort, McFarland, &amp; Flynn.946 1/15/17 Email, Manafort, McFarland, &amp; Flynn.947 Manafort 9/11/18 302, at 7.948 1/15/17 Email, Manafort, McFarland, &amp; Flynn; McFarland 12/22/17 302, at 18-19.949 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ Manafort 9/11/18 302, at 7; Manafort 9/21/18 302, at 3; 1/19/17 &amp; 1/22/17 Kilimnik CBP Records, Jan. 19 and 22, 2017; 2016-17 Text Messages, Kilimnik &amp; Patten, at 1-2.950 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Vol. 1, Page 142acknowledged having read,951 Kilimnik wrote, “[a]ll that is required to start the process is a very minor ‘wink’ (or slight push) from DT”—an apparent reference to President-elect Trump—"and a decision to authorize you to be a special representative and manage this process.” Kilimnik assured Manafort, with that authority, he “could start the process and within 10 days visit Russia \[Yanukovych] guarantees your reception at the very top level,” and that “DT could have peace in Ukraine basically within a few months after inauguration."952As noted above, ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ and statements to the Office, Manafort sought to qualify his engagement on and support for the plan. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■953 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■954 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■955 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■On February 26, 2017, Manafort met Kilimnik in Madrid, where Kilimnik had flown from Moscow.956 In his first two interviews with the Office, Manafort denied meeting with Kilimnik on his Madrid trip and then – after being confronted with documentary evidence that Kilimnik was in Madrid at the same time as him — recognized that he met him in Madrid. Manafort said that Kilimnik had updated him on a criminal investigation into so-called “black ledger” payments to Manafort that was being conducted by Ukraine’s National Anti-Corruption Bureau.957 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■958Manafort remained in contact with Kilimnik throughout 2017 and into the spring of 2018.951 Manafort 9/11/18 302, at 6; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■952 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■953 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■954 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■.955 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■.956 2/21/17 Email, Zatynaiko to Kilimnik.957 Manafort 9/13/18 302, at 1.958 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ In resolving whether Manafort breached his cooperation plea agreement by lying to the Office, the district court found that Manafort lied about, among other things, his contacts with Kilimnik regarding the peace plan, including the meeting in Madrid. Manafort 2/13/19 Transcript, at 29-31, 40.Vol. 1, Page 143Those contacts included matters pertaining to the criminal charges brought by the Office,959 and the Ukraine peace plan. In early 2018, Manafort retained his longtime polling firm to craft a draft poll in Ukraine, sent the pollsters a three-page primer on the plan sent by Kilimnik, and worked with Kilimnik to formulate the polling questions.960 The primer sent to the pollsters specifically called for the United States and President Trump to support the Autonomous Republic of Donbas with Yanukovych as Prime Minister,961 and a series of questions in the draft poll asked for opinions on Yanukovych’s role in resolving the conflict in Donbas.962 (The poll was not solely about Donbas; it also sought participants’ views on leaders apart from Yanukovych as they pertained to the 2019 Ukraine presidential election.) The Office has not uncovered evidence that Manafort brought the Ukraine peace plan to the attention of the Trump Campaign or the Trump Administration. Kilimnik continued his efforts to promote the peace plan to the Executive Branch (e.g., U.S. Department of State) into the summer of 2018.963B. Post-Election and Transition-Period ContactsTrump was elected President on November 8, 2016. Beginning immediately after the election, individuals connected to the Russian government started contacting officials on the Trump Campaign and Transition Team through multiple channels – sometimes through Russian Ambassador Kislyak and at other times through individuals who sought reliable contacts through U.S. persons not formally tied to the Campaign or Transition Team. The most senior levels of the Russian government encouraged these efforts. The investigation did not establish that these efforts reflected or constituted coordination between the Trump Campaign and Russia in its election-interference activities.As soon as news broke that Trump had been elected President, Russian government officials and prominent Russian businessmen began trying to make inroads into the new Administration. They appeared not to have preexisting contacts and struggled to connect with senior officials around the President-Elect. As explained below, those efforts entailed both official contact through the Russian Embassy in the United States and outreaches — sanctioned at high levels of the Russian government — through business rather than political contacts.959 Manafort (D.D.C.) Gov’t Opp. to Mot. to Modify, at 2; Superseding Indictment 1948-51, United States v. Paul J. Manafort, Jr., 1:17-cr-201 (D.D.C. June 8, 2018), Doc. 318.960 2/12/18 Email, Fabrizio to Manafort &amp; Ward; 2/16/18 Email, Fabrizio to Manafort; 2/19/18 Email, Fabrizio to Ward; 2/21/18 Email, Manafort to Ward &amp; Fabrizio.961 2/21/18 Email, Manafort to Ward &amp; Fabrizio (7:16:49 a.m.) (attachment).962 3/9/18 Email, Ward to Manafort &amp; Fabrizio (attachment).963 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Vol. 1, Page 144At approximately 3 a.m. on election night, Trump Campaign press secretary Hope Hicks received a telephone call on her personal cell phone from a person who sounded foreign but was calling from a number with a DC area code.964 Although Hicks had a hard time understanding the person, she could make out the words “Putin call."965 Hicks told the caller to send her an email.966The following morning, on November 9, 2016, Sergey Kuznetsov, an official at the Russian Embassy to the United States, emailed Hicks from his Gmail address with the subject line, “Message from Putin."967 Attached to the email was a message from Putin, in both English and Russian, which Kuznetsov asked Hicks to convey to the President-Elect968 In the message, Putin offered his congratulations to Trump for his electoral victory, stating he “look[ed] forward to working with [Trump] on leading Russian-American relations out of crisis."969Hicks forwarded the email to Kushner, asking, “Can you look into this? Don’t want to get duped but don’t want to blow off Putin!"970 Kushner stated in Congressional testimony that he believed that it would be possible to verify the authenticity of the forwarded email through the Russian Ambassador, whom Kushner had previously met in April 2016.971 Unable to recall the Russian Ambassador’s name, Kushner emailed Dimitri Simes of CNI, whom he had consulted previously about Russia, see Volume I, Section IV.A.4, supra, and asked, “What is the name of Russian ambassador?"972 Kushner forwarded Simes’s response — which identified Kislyak by name — to Hicks.973 After checking with Kushner to see what he had learned, Hicks conveyed Putin’s letter to transition officials.974 Five days later, on November 14, 2016, Trump and Putin spoke by phone in the presence of Transition Team members, including incoming National Security Advisor Michael Flynn.975964 Hicks 12/8/17 302, at 3.965 Hicks 12/8/17 302, at 3.966 Hicks 12/8/17 302, at 3.967 NOSC00044381 (11/9/16 Email, Kuznetsov to Hicks (5:27 a.m.)).968 NOSC00044381-82 (11/9/16 Email, Kuznetsov to Hicks (5:27 a.m.)).969 NOSC00044382 (11/9/16 Letter from Putin to President-Elect Trump (Nov. 9, 2016) (translation)).970 NOSC00044381 (11/9/16 Email, Hicks to Kushner (10:26 a.m.)).971 Statement of Jared C. Kushner to Congressional Committees, at 4 (Jul. 24, 2017).972 NOSC00000058 (11/9/16 Email, Kushner to Simes (10:28 a.m.)); Statement of Jared Kushner to Congressional Committees, at 4 (Jul. 24, 2017).973 NOSC00000058 (11/9/16 Email, Kushner to Hicks (11:05:44 a.m.)).974 Hicks 12/8/17 302, at 3-4.975 Flynn 11/16/17 302, at 8-10; see Doug G. Ware, Trump, Russia’s Putin Talk about Syria, Icy Relations in Phone Call, UPI (Nov. 14, 2016).Vol. 1, Page 145As Russian officials in the United States reached out to the President-Elect and his team, a number of Russian individuals working in the private sector began their own efforts to make contact. Petr Aven, a Russian national who heads Alfa-Bank, Russia’s largest commercial bank, described to the Office interactions with Putin during this time period that might account for the flurry of Russian activity.976Aven told the Office that he is one of approximately 50 wealthy Russian businessmen who regularly meet with Putin in the Kremlin; these 50 men are often referred to as “oligarchs."977 Aven told the Office that he met on a quarterly basis with Putin, including in the fourth quarter (24) of 2016, shortly after the U.S. presidential election.978 Aven said that he took these meetings seriously and understood that any suggestions or critiques that Putin made during these meetings were implicit directives, and that there would be consequences for Aven if he did not follow through.979 As was typical, the 2016 Q4 meeting with Putin was preceded by a preparatory meeting with Putin’s chief of staff, Anton Vaino.980According to Aven, at his Q4 2016 one-on-one meeting with Putin,981 Putin raised the prospect that the United States would impose additional sanctions on Russian interests, including sanctions against Aven and/or Alfa-Bank.982 Putin suggested that Aven needed to take steps to protect himself and Alfa-Bank.983 Aven also testified that Putin spoke of the difficulty faced by the Russian government in getting in touch with the incoming Trump Administration.984 According to Aven, Putin indicated that he did not know with whom formally to speak and generally did not know the people around the President-Elect.985976 Aven provided information to the Office in an interview and through an attorney proffer, ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■977 Aven 8/2/18 302, at 7.978 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■979 Aven 8/2/18 302, at 2-3.980 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ and interview with the Office, Aven referred to the high-ranking Russian government officials using numbers (e.g., Official 1, Official 2). Aven separately confirmed through an attorney proffer that Official 1 was Putin and Official 2 was Putin’s chief of staff, Vaino. See Affidavit of Ryan Junck (Aug. 2, 2018) (hard copy on file).981 At the time of his Q4 2016 meeting with Putin, Aven was generally aware of the press coverage about Russian interference in the U.S. election. According to Aven, he did not discuss that topic with Putin at any point, and Putin did not mention the rationale behind the threat of new sanctions. Aven 8/2/18 302, at 5-7.982 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■983 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■984 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■985 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Vol. 1, Page 146Aven ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ told Putin he would take steps to protect himself and the Alfa-Bank shareholders from potential sanctions, and one of those steps would be to try to reach out to the incoming Administration to establish a line of communication.986 Aven described Putin responding with skepticism about Aven’s prospect for success.987 According to Aven, although Putin did not expressly direct him to reach out to the Trump Transition Team, Aven understood that Putin expected him to try to respond to the concerns he had raised.988 Aven’s efforts are described in Volume I, Section IV.B.5, infra.Aven’s description of his interactions with Putin is consistent with the behavior of Kirill Dmitriev, a Russian national who heads Russia’s sovereign wealth fund and is closely connected to Putin. Dmitriev undertook efforts to meet members of the incoming Trump Administration in the months after the election. Dmitriev asked a close business associate who worked for the United Arab Emirates (UAE) royal court, George Nader, to introduce him to Trump transition officials, and Nader eventually arranged a meeting in the Seychelles between Dmitriev and Erik Prince, a Trump Campaign supporter and an associate of Steve Bannon.989 In addition, the UAE national security advisor introduced Dmitriev to a hedge fund manager and friend of Jared Kushner, Rick Gerson, in late November 2016. In December 2016 and January 2017, Dmitriev and Gerson worked on a proposal for reconciliation between the United States and Russia, which Dmitriev implied he cleared through Putin. Gerson provided that proposal to Kushner before the inauguration, and Kushner later gave copies to Bannon and Secretary of State Rex Tillerson.Dmitriev is a Russian national who was appointed CEO of Russia’s sovereign wealth fund, the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), when it was founded in 2011.990 Dmitriev reported directly to Putin and frequently referred to Putin as his “boss."991RDIF has co-invested in various projects with UAE sovereign wealth funds.992 Dmitriev regularly interacted with Nader, a senior advisor to UAE Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed986 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■987 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ Aven 8/2/18 302, at 6.988 Aven 8/2/18 302, at 4-8; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■989 Nader provided information to the Office in multiple interviews, all but one of which were conducted under a proffer agreement ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■. The investigators also interviewed Prince under a proffer agreement. Bannon was interviewed by the Office, ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ under a proffer agreement.990 Kirill Dmitriev Biography, Russian Direct Investment Fund, available at https://rdif.ru/Eng_person_dmitriev_kirill/. See also Overview, Russian Direct Investment Fund, available at https://rdif.ru/Eng_About/.991 Gerson 6/15/18 302, at 1. See also, e.g., 12/14/16 Text Message, Dmitriev to Gerson; 1/9/17 Text Message, Dmitriev to Gerson.992 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Vol. 1, Page 147(Crown Prince Mohammed), in connection with RDIF’s dealings with the UAE.993 Putin wanted Dmitriev to be in charge of both the financial and the political relationship between Russia and the Gulf states, in part because Dmitriev had been educated in the West and spoke English fluently.994 Nader considered Dmitriev to be Putin’s interlocutor in the Gulf region, and would relay Dmitriev’s views directly to Crown Prince Mohammed.995Nader developed contacts with both U.S. presidential campaigns during the 2016 election, and kept Dmitriev abreast of his efforts to do so.996 According to Nader, Dmitriev said that his and the government of Russia’s preference was for candidate Trump to win, and asked Nader to assist him in meeting members of the Trump Campaign.997 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■998 Nader did not introduce Dmitriev to anyone associated with the Trump Campaign before the election.999■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1000 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1001 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1002 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1003 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1004Erik Prince is a businessman who had relationships with various individuals associated with the Trump Campaign, including Steve Bannon, Donald Trump Jr., and Roger Stone.1005 Prince did not have a formal role in the Campaign, although he offered to host a fundraiser for993 Nader 1/22/18 302, at 1-2; Nader 1/23/18 302, at 2-3; 5/3/16 Email, Nader to Phares; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■994 Nader 1/22/18 302, at 1-2.995 Nader 1/22/18 302, at 3.996 Nader 1/22/18 302, at 3; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■997 Nader 1/22/18 302, at 3; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■998 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■999 Nader 1/22/18 302, at 3.1000 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1001 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1002 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1003 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1004 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1005 Prince 4/4/18 302, at 1-5; Bannon 2/14/18 302, at 21.Vol. 1, Page 148Trump and sent unsolicited policy papers on issues such as foreign policy, trade, and Russian election interference to Bannon.1006After the election, Prince frequently visited transition offices at Trump Tower, primarily to meet with Bannon but on occasion to meet Michael Flynn and others.1007 Prince and Bannon would discuss, inter alia, foreign policy issues and Prince’s recommendations regarding who should be appointed to fill key national security positions.1008 Although Prince was not formally affiliated with the transition, Nader ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ received assurances ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ that the incoming Administration considered Prince a trusted associate.1009Soon after midnight on election night, Dmitriev messaged ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ who was traveling to New York to attend the 2016 World Chess Championship. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ Dmitry Peskov, the Russian Federation’s press secretary, who was also attending the World Chess Championship.1010 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1011 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1012 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1013At approximately 2:40 a.m. on November 9, 2016, news reports stated that candidate Clinton had called President-Elect Trump to concede. At ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1014 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ wrote to Dmitriev, “Putin has won."10151006 Prince 4/4/18 302, at 1, 3-4; Prince 5/3/18 302, at 2; Bannon 2/14/18 302, at 19-20; 10/18/16 Email, Prince to Bannon.1007 Flynn 11/20/17 302, at 6; Flynn 1/11/18 302, at 5; Flynn 1/24/18 302, at 5-6; Flynn 5/1/18 302, at 11; Prince 4/4/18 302, at 5, 8; Bannon 2/14/18 302, at 20-21; 11/12/16 Email, Prince to Corallo.1008 Prince 4/4/18 302, at 5; Bannon 2/14/18 302, at 21.1009 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1010 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ Nader 1/22/18 302, at 5-6; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1011 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1012 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1013 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1014 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1015 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Vol. 1, Page 149Later that morning, Dmitriev contacted Nader, who was in New York, to request a meeting with the “key people” in the incoming Administration as soon as possible in light of the “[g]reat results."1016 He asked Nader to convey to the incoming Administration that “we want to start rebuilding the relationship in whatever is a comfortable pace for them. We understand all of the sensitivities and are not in a rush."1017 Dmitriev and Nader had previously discussed Nader introducing him to the contacts Nader had made within the Trump Campaign.1018 Dmitriev also told Nader that he would ask Putin for permission to travel to the United States, where he would be able to speak to media outlets about the positive impact of Trump’s election and the need for reconciliation between the United States and Russia.1019Later that day, Dmitriev flew to New York, where Peskov was separately traveling to attend the chess tournament.1020 Dmitriev invited Nader to the opening of the tournament and noted that, if there was a chance to see anyone key from Trump camp,” he “would love to start building for the future."1021 Dmitriev also asked Nader to invite Kushner to the event so that he (Dmitriev) could meet him.1022 Nader did not pass along Dmitriev’s invitation to anyone connected with the incoming Administration.1023 Although one World Chess Federation official recalled hearing from an attendee that President-Elect Trump had stopped by the tournament, the investigation did not establish that Trump or any Campaign or Transition Team official attended the event.1024 And the President’s written answers denied that he had.1025Nader stated that Dmitriev continued to press him to set up a meeting with transition officials, and was particularly focused on Kushner and Trump Jr.1026 Dmitriev told Nader that Putin would be very grateful to Nader and that a meeting would make history.1027 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1016 11/9/16 Text Message, Dmitriev to Nader (9:34 a.m.); Nader 1/22/18 302, at 4.1017 11/9/16 Text Message, Dmitriev to Nader (11:58 p.m.).1018 Nader 1/22/18 302, at 3.1019 11/9/16 Text Message, Dmitriev to Nader (10:06 a.m.); 11/9/16 Text Message, Dmitriev to Nader (10:10 a.m.); ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1020 11/9/16 Text Message, Dmitriev to Nader (10:08 a.m.); 11/9/16 Text Message, Dmitriev to Nader (3:40 p.m.); Nader 1/22/18 302, at 5.1021 11/9/16 Text Message, Dmitriev to Nader (7:10 p.m.).1022 11/10/16 Text Message, Dmitriev to Nader (5:20 a.m.).1023 Nader 1/22/18 302, at 5-6.1024 Marinello 5/31/18 302, at 2-3; Nader 1/22/18 302, at 5-6.1025 Written Responses of Donald J. Trump (Nov. 20, 2018), at 17-18 (Response to Question V, Part (a).1026 Nader 1/22/18 302, at 6; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1027 Nader 1/22/18 302, at 6; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Vol. 1, Page 150■■■■■■■■■1028 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1029 According to Nader, Dmitriev was very anxious to connect with the incoming Administration and told Nader that he would try other routes to do so besides Nader himself.1030 Nader did not ultimately introduce Dmitriev to anyone associated with the incoming Administration during Dmitriev’s post-election trip to New York.1031In early December 2016, Dmitriev again broached the topic of meeting incoming Administration officials with Nader in January or February.1032 Dmitriev sent Nader a list of publicly available quotes of Dmitriev speaking positively about Donald Trump “in case they \[were] helpful."1033Nader traveled to New York in early January 2017 and had lunchtime and dinner meetings with Erik Prince on January 3, 2017.1034 Nader and Prince discussed Dmitriev.1035 Nader informed Prince that the Russians were looking to build a link with the incoming Trump Administration 1036 Grand Jury he told Prince that Dmitriev had been pushing Nader to introduce him to someone from the incoming Administration Grand Jury 1.1037 Nader suggested, in light of Prince’s relationship with Transition Team officials, that Prince and Dmitriev meet to discuss issues of mutual concern1038 Grand Jury Prince told Nader that he needed to think further about it and to check with Transition Team officials.1039 After his dinner with Prince, Nader sent Prince a link to a Wikipedia entry about Dmitriev, and sent Dmitriev a message stating that he had just met “with some key people within the family and inner circle"—a reference to Prince — and that he had spoken at length and positively about1028 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1029 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1030 Nader 1/22/18 302, at 6.1031 Nader 1/22/18 302, at 5-7.1032 12/8/16 Text Messages, Dmitriev to Nader (12:10:31 a.m.); Nader 1/22/18 302, at 11.1033 12/8/16 Text Message, Dmitriev to Nader (12:10:31 a.m.); 12/8/16 Text Message, Dmitriev to Nader (12:10:57 a.m.).1034 Prince 4/4/18 302, at 8.1035 Prince 5/3/18 302, at 3; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1036 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1037 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1038 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1039 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Vol. 1, Page 151Dmitriev.1040 Nader told Dmitriev that the people he met had asked for Dmitriev’s bio, and Dmitriev replied that he would update and send it.1041 Nader later received from Dmitriev two files concerning Dmitriev: one was a two-page biography, and the other was a list of Dmitriev’s positive quotes about Donald Trump.1042The next morning, Nader forwarded the message and attachments Dmitriev had sent him to Prince.1043 Nader wrote to Prince that these documents were the versions “to be used with some additional details for them” (with “them” referring to members of the incoming Administration).1044 Prince opened the attachments at Trump Tower within an hour of receiving them.1045 Prince stated that, while he was at Trump Tower that day, he spoke with Kellyanne Conway, Wilbur Ross, Steve Mnuchin, and others while waiting to see Bannon.1046 Cell-site location data for Prince’s mobile phone indicates that Prince remained at Trump Tower for approximately three hours.1047 Prince said that he could not recall whether, during those three hours, he met with Bannon and discussed Dmitriev with him.1048 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1049Prince booked a ticket to the Seychelles on January 7, 2017.1050 The following day, Nader wrote to Dmitriev that he had a “pleasant surprise” for him, namely that he had arranged for Dmitriev to meet “a Special Guest” from the New Team,” referring to Prince.1051 Nader asked Dmitriev if he could come to the Seychelles for the meeting on January 12, 2017, and Dmitriev agreed.1052The following day, Dmitriev sought assurance from Nader that the Seychelles meeting would be worthwhile.1053 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ Dmitriev was not enthusiastic about the idea of meeting with Prince, and that Nader assured him that Prince wielded influence with the incoming1040 1/4/17 Text Message, Nader to Prince; 1/4/17 Text Messages, Nader to Dmitriev (5:24 a.m. - 5:26 a.m.); Nader 1/22/18 302, at 8-9; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1041 1/4/17 Text Messages, Nader &amp; Dmitriev (7:24:27 a.m.).1042 1/4/17 Text Messages, Dmitriev to Nader (7:25-7:29 a.m.)1043 1/4/17 Text Messages, Nader to Prince.1044 1/4/17 Text Messages, Nader to Prince; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1045 Prince 5/3/18 302, at 1-3.1046 Prince 5/3/18 302, at 2-3.1047 Cell-site location data for Prince’s mobile phone ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1048 Prince 5/3/18 302, at 3.1049 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1050 1/5/17 Email, Kasbo to Prince.1051 1/8/17 Text Messages, Nader to Dmitriev (6:05–6:10 p.m.).1052 1/8/17 Text Messages, Nader &amp; Dmitriev (6:10–7:27 p.m.).1053 1/9/17 Text Message, Dmitriev to Nader.Vol. 1, Page 152Administration.1054 Nader wrote to Dmitriev, “This guy [Prince) is designated by Steve [Bannon] to meet you! I know him and he is very very well connected and trusted by the New Team. His sister is now a Minister of Education."1055 According to Nader, Prince had led him to believe that Bannon was aware of Prince’s upcoming meeting with Dmitriev, and Prince acknowledged that it was fair for Nader to think that Prince would pass information on to the Transition Team.1056 Bannon, however, told the Office that Prince did not tell him in advance about his meeting with Dmitriev.1057Dmitriev arrived with his wife in the Seychelles on January 11, 2017, and checked into the Four Seasons Resort where Crown Prince Mohammed and Nader were staying,1058 Prince arrived that same day.1059 Prince and Dmitriev met for the first time that afternoon in Nader’s villa, with Nader present.1060 The initial meeting lasted approximately 30-45 minutes.1061■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1062 Prince described the eight years of the Obama Administration in negative terms, and stated that he was looking forward to a new era of cooperation and conflict resolution.1063 According to Prince, he told Dmitriev that Bannon was effective if not conventional, and that Prince provided policy papers to Bannon.1064■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1063 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1054 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1055 1/9/17 Text Message, Nader to Dmitriev (2:12:56 p.m.); Nader 1/19/18 302, at 13; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1056 Nader 1/19/18 302, at 13; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ Prince 5/3/18 302, at 3.1057 Bannon 2/14/18 302, at 25-26.1058 1/10/17 Text Messages, Dmitriev &amp; Nader (2:05:54–3:30:25 p.m.); 1/11/17 Text Messages, Dmitriev &amp; Nader (2:16:16 - 5:17:59 p.m.).1059 1/7/17 Email, Kasbo to Prince.1060 1/11/17 Text Messages, Nader &amp; Dmitriev (5:18:24–5:37:14 p.m.); ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1061 Prince 5/3/18 302, at 4; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1062 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1063 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1064 Prince 5/3/18 302, at 4.1065 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Vol. 1, Page 153■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1066 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1067 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1068 The topic of Russian interference in the 2016 election did not come up.1069■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1070 Prince added that he would inform Bannon about his meeting with Dmitriev, and that if there was interest in continuing the discussion, Bannon or someone else on the Transition Team would do so.1071 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1072Afterwards, Prince returned to his room, where he learned that a Russian aircraft carrier had sailed to Libya, which led him to call Nader and ask him to set up another meeting with Dmitriev.1073 According to Nader, Prince called and said he had checked with his associates back home and needed to convey to Dmitriev that Libya was “off the table."1074 Nader wrote to Dmitriev that Prince had “received an urgent message that he needs to convey to you immediately,” and arranged for himself, Dmitriev, and Prince to meet at a restaurant on the Four Seasons property.1075At the second meeting, Prince told Dmitriev that the United States could not accept any Russian involvement in Libya because it would make the situation there much worse.1076 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1066 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1067 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1068 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1069 Prince 5/3/18 302, at 4-5.1070 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1071 Prince 5/3/18 302, at 4; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1072 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1073 Prince 4/4/18 302, at 10; Prince 5/3/18 302, at 4; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1074 Nader 1/22/18 302, at 14; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1075 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ 1/11/17 Text Messages, Dmitriev &amp; Nader (9:13:54 - 10:24:25 p.m.).1076 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ Prince, however, denied that and recalled that he was making these remarks to Dmitriev not in an official capacity for the transition but based on his experience as a former naval officer. Prince 5/3/18 302, at 4.Vol. 1, Page 154■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1077After the brief second meeting concluded, Nader and Dmitriev discussed what had transpired.1078 Dmitriev told Nader that he was disappointed in his meetings with Prince for two reasons: first, he believed the Russians needed to be communicating with someone who had more authority within the incoming Administration than Prince had.1079 Second, he had hoped to have a discussion of greater substance, such as outlining a strategic roadmap for both countries to follow.1080 Dmitriev told Nader that ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ Prince’s comments ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ were insulting ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1081Hours after the second meeting, Prince sent two text messages to Bannon from the Seychelles.1082 As described further below, investigators were unable to obtain the content of these or other messages between Prince and Bannon, and the investigation also did not identify evidence of any further communication between Prince and Dmitriev after their meetings in the Seychelles.After the Seychelles meetings, Prince told Nader that he would inform Bannon about his discussion with Dmitriev and would convey that someone within the Russian power structure was interested in seeking better relations with the incoming Administration.1083 On January 12, 2017, Prince contacted Bannon’s personal assistant to set up a meeting for the following week.1084 Several days later, Prince messaged her again asking about Bannon’s schedule.1085Prince said that he met Bannon at Bannon’s home after returning to the United States in mid-January and briefed him about several topics, including his meeting with Dmitriev.1086 Prince told the Office that he explained to Bannon that Dmitriev was the head of a Russian sovereign wealth fund and was interested in improving relations between the United States and Russia.1087 Prince had on his cellphone a screenshot of Dmitriev’s Wikipedia page dated January 16, 2017,1077 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1078 Nader 1/22/18 302, at 15; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1079 Nader 1/22/18 302, at 9, 15; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1080 Nader 1/22/18 302, at 15.1081 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ Nader 1/22/18 302, at 15.1082 Call Records of Erik Prince ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1083 Prince 4/4/18 302, at 10; Prince 5/3/18 302, at 4; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1084 1/12/17 Text Messages, Prince to Preate.1085 1/15/17 Text Message, Prince to Preate.1086 Prince 4/4/18 302, at 11; Prince 5/3/18 302, at 5.1087 Prince 4/4/18 302, at 11; Prince 5/3/18 302, at 5.Vol. 1, Page 155and Prince told the Office that he likely showed that image to Bannon.1088 Prince also believed he provided Bannon with Dmitriev’s contact information.1089 According to Prince, Bannon instructed Prince not to follow up with Dmitriev, and Prince had the impression that the issue was not a priority for Bannon.1090 Prince related that Bannon did not appear angry, just relatively uninterested.1091Bannon, by contrast, told the Office that he never discussed with Prince anything regarding Dmitriev, RDIF, or any meetings with Russian individuals or people associated with Putin.1092 Bannon also stated that had Prince mentioned such a meeting, Bannon would have remembered it, and Bannon would have objected to such a meeting having taken place.1093The conflicting accounts provided by Bannon and Prince could not be independently clarified by reviewing their communications, because neither one was able to produce any of the messages they exchanged in the time period surrounding the Seychelles meeting. Prince’s phone contained no text messages prior to March 2017, though provider records indicate that he and Bannon exchanged dozens of messages.1094 Prince denied deleting any messages but claimed he did not know why there were no messages on his device before March 2017.1095 Bannon’s devices similarly contained no messages in the relevant time period, and Bannon also stated he did not know why messages did not appear on his device.1096 Bannon told the Office that, during both the months before and after the Seychelles meeting, he regularly used his personal Blackberry and personal email for work-related communications (including those with Prince), and he took no steps to preserve these work communications.1097Dmitriev’s contacts during the transition period were not limited to those facilitated by Nader. In approximately late November 2016, the UAE national security advisor introduced Dmitriev to Rick Gerson, a friend of Jared Kushner who runs a hedge fund in New York,1098 Gerson stated he had no formal role in the transition and had no involvement in the Trump1088 Prince 5/3/18 302, at 5; 1/16/17 Image on Prince Phone (on file with the Office).1089 Prince 5/3/18 302, at 5.1090 Prince 5/3/18 302, at 5.1091 Prince 5/3/18 302, at 5.1092 Bannon 10/26/18 302, at 10-11.1093 Bannon 10/26/18 302, at 10-11.1094 Call Records of Erik Prince ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1095 Prince 4/4/18 302, at 6.1096 Bannon 10/26/18 302, at 11; Bannon 2/14/18 302, at 36.1097 Bannon 10/26/18 302, at 11.1098 Gerson 6/5/18 302, at 1, 3; 11/26/16 Text Message, Dmitriev to Gerson; 1/25/17 Text Message, Dmitriev to Nader.Vol. 1, Page 156Campaign other than occasional casual discussions about the Campaign with Kushner.1099 After the election, Gerson assisted the transition by arranging meetings for transition officials with former UK prime minister Tony Blair and a UAE delegation led by Crown Prince Mohammed.1100When Dmitriev and Gerson met, they principally discussed potential joint ventures between Gerson’s hedge fund and RDIF.1101 Dmitriev was interested in improved economic cooperation between the United States and Russia and asked Gerson who he should meet with in the incoming Administration who would be helpful towards this goal.1102 Gerson replied that he would try to figure out the best way to arrange appropriate introductions, but noted that confidentiality would be required because of the sensitivity of holding such meetings before the new Administration took power, and before Cabinet nominees had been confirmed by the Senate.1103 Gerson said he would ask Kushner and Michael Flynn who the “key person or people” were on the topics of reconciliation with Russia, joint security concerns, and economic matters.1104Dmitriev told Gerson that he had been tasked by Putin to develop and execute a reconciliation plan between the United States and Russia. He noted in a text message to Gerson that if Russia was “approached with respect and willingness to understand our position, we can have Major Breakthroughs quickly."1105 Gerson and Dmitriev exchanged ideas in December 2016 about what such a reconciliation plan would include.1106 Gerson told the Office that the Transition Team had not asked him to engage in these discussions with Dmitriev, and that he did so on his own initiative and as a private citizen.1107On January 9, 2017, the same day he asked Nader whether meeting Prince would be worthwhile, Dmitriev sent his biography to Gerson and asked him if he could “share it with Jared (or somebody else very senior in the team) — so that they know that we are focused from our side on improving the relationship and my boss asked me to play a key role in that."1108 Dmitriev also asked Gerson if he knew Prince, and if Prince was somebody important or worth spending time1099 Gerson 6/5/18 302, at 1.1100 Gerson 6/5/18 302, at 1-2; Kushner 4/11/18 302, at 21.1101 Gerson 6/5/18 302, at 3-4; see, e.g., 12/2/16 Text Messages, Dmitriev &amp; Gerson; 12/14/16 Text Messages, Dmitriev &amp; Gerson; 1/3/17 Text Message, Gerson to Dmitriev; 12/2/16 Email, Tolokonnikov to Gerson.1102 Gerson 6/5/18 302, at 3; 12/14/16 Text Message, Dmitriev to Gerson.1103 12/14/16 Text Message, Gerson to Dmitriev.1104 12/14/16 Text Message, Gerson to Dmitriev.1105 12/14/16 Text Messages, Dmitriev &amp; Gerson; Gerson 6/15/18 302, at 1.1106 12/14/16 Text Messages, Dmitriev &amp; Gerson.1107 Gerson 6/15/18 302, at 1.1108 1/9/17 Text Messages, Dmitriev to Gerson; 1/9/17 Text Message, Dmitriev to Nader.Vol. 1, Page 157with.1109 After his trip to the Seychelles, Dmitriev told Gerson that Bannon had asked Prince to meet with Dmitriev and that the two had had a positive meeting.1110On January 16, 2017, Dmitriev consolidated the ideas for U.S.-Russia reconciliation that he and Gerson had been discussing into a two-page document that listed five main points: (1) jointly fighting terrorism; (2) jointly engaging in anti-weapons of mass destruction efforts; (3) developing “win-win” economic and investment initiatives; (4) maintaining an honest, open, and continual dialogue regarding issues of disagreement; and (5) ensuring proper communication and trust by “key people” from each country.1111 On January 18, 2017, Gerson gave a copy of the document to Kushner.1112 Kushner had not heard of Dmitriev at that time.1113 Gerson explained that Dmitriev was the head of RDIF, and Gerson may have alluded to Dmitriev’s being well connected. 1114 Kushner placed the document in a file and said he would get it to the right people. 1115 Kushner ultimately gave one copy of the document to Bannon and another to Rex Tillerson; according to Kushner, neither of them followed up with Kushner about it.1116 On January 19, 2017, Dmitriev sent Nader a copy of the two-page document, telling him that this was “a view from our side that I discussed in my meeting on the islands and with you and with our friends. Please share with them - we believe this is a good foundation to start from."1117Gerson informed Dmitriev that he had given the document to Kushner soon after delivering it.1118 On January 26, 2017, Dmitriev wrote to Gerson that his “boss" — an apparent reference to Putin — was asking if there had been any feedback on the proposal.1119 Dmitriev said, “[w]e do not want to rush things and move at a comfortable speed. At the same time, my boss asked me to try to have the key US meetings in the next two weeks if possible."1120 He informed Gerson that Putin and President Trump would speak by phone that Saturday, and noted that that information was “very confidential."1121The same day, Dmitriev wrote to Nader that he had seen his “boss” again yesterday who had “emphasized that this is a great priority for us and that we need to build this communication1109 Gerson 6/5/18 302, at 4.1110 1/18/17 Text Messages, Dmitriev &amp; Gerson.1111 1/16/17 Text Messages, Dmitriev &amp; Gerson.1112 Gerson 6/5/18 302, at 3; Gerson 6/15/18 302, at 2.1113 Gerson 6/5/18 302, at 3.1114 Gerson 6/5/18 302, at 3; Gerson 6/15/18; 302, at 1-2; Kushner 4/11/18 302, at 22.1115 Gerson 6/5/18 302, at 3.1116 Kushner 4/11/18 302, at 32.1117 1/19/17 Text Message, Dmitriev to Nader (11:11:56 a.m.).1118 1/18/17 Text Message, Gerson to Dmitriev; Gerson 6/15/18 302, at 2.1119 1/26/17 Text Message, Dmitriev to Gerson.1120 1/26/17 Text Message, Dmitriev to Gerson.1121 1/26/17 Text Message, Dmitriev to Gerson.Vol. 1, Page 158channel to avoid bureaucracy."1122 On January 28, 2017, Dmitriev texted Nader that he wanted “to see if I can confirm to my boss that your friends may use some of the ideas from the 2 pager I sent you in the telephone call that will happen at 12 EST,"1123 an apparent reference to the call scheduled between President Trump and Putin. Nader replied, “Definitely paper was so submitted to Team by Rick and me. They took it seriously!"1124 After the call between President Trump and Putin occurred, Dmitriev wrote to Nader that “the call went very well. My boss wants me to continue making some public statements that us [sic] Russia cooperation is good and important."1125Gerson also wrote to Dmitriev to say that the call had gone well, and Dmitriev replied that the document they had drafted together “played an important role."1126 Gerson and Dmitriev appeared to stop communicating with one another in approximately March 2017, when the investment deal they had been working on together showed no signs of progressing.1127On November 16, 2016, Catherine Vargas, an executive assistant to Kushner, received a request for a meeting with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak.1128 That same day, Vargas sent Kushner an email with the subject, “MISSED CALL: Russian Ambassador to the US, Sergey Ivanovich Kislyak...."1129 The text of the email read, “RE: setting up a time to meet w/you on 12/1. LMK how to proceed.” Kushner responded in relevant part, “I think I do this one -- confirm with Dimitri Simes of CNI] that this is the right guy."1130 After reaching out to a colleague of Simes at CNI, Vargas reported back to Kushner that Kislyak was “the best go-to guy for routine matters in the US,” while Yuri Ushakov, a Russian foreign policy advisor, was the contact for “more direct/substantial matters."1131Bob Foresman, the UBS investment bank executive who had previously tried to transmit to candidate Trump an invitation to speak at an economic forum in Russia, see Volume I, Section IV.A.1.d.ii, supra, may have provided similar information to the Transition Team. According to1122 1/26/17 Text Message, Dmitriev to Nader (10:04:41 p.m.).1123 1/28/17 Text Message, Dmitriev to Nader (11:05:39 a.m.).1124 1/28/17 Text Message, Nader to Dmitriev (11:11:33 a.m.).1125 1/29/17 Text Message, Dmitriev to Nader (11:06:35 a.m.).1126 1/28/17 Text Message, Gerson to Dmitriev; 1/29/17 Text Message, Dmitriev to Gerson.1127 Gerson 6/15/18 302, at 4; 3/21/17 Text Message, Gerson to Dmitriev.1128 Statement of Jared C. Kushner to Congressional Committees ("Kushner Stmt."), at 6 (7/24/17) (written statement by Kushner to the Senate Judiciary Committee).1129 NOSC00004356 (11/16/16 Email, Vargas to Kushner (6:44 p.m.)).1130 NOSC00004356 (11/16/16 Email, Kushner to Vargas (9:54 p.m.)).1131 11/17/16 Email, Brown to Simes (10:41 a.m.); Brown 10/13/17 302, at 4; 11/17/16 Email, Vargas to Kushner (12:31:18).Vol. 1, Page 159Foresman, at the end of an early December 2016 meeting with incoming National Security Advisor Michael Flynn and his designated deputy (K.T. McFarland) in New York, Flynn asked Foresman for his thoughts on Kislyak. Foresman had not met Kislyak but told Flynn that, while Kislyak was an important person, Kislyak did not have a direct line to Putin.1132 Foresman subsequently traveled to Moscow, inquired of a source he believed to be close to Putin, and heard back from that source that Ushakov would be the official channel for the incoming U.S. national security advisor.1133 Foresman acknowledged that Flynn had not asked him to undertake that inquiry in Russia but told the Office that he nonetheless felt obligated to report the information back to Flynn, and that he worked to get a face-to-face meeting with Flynn in January 2017 so that he could do so.1134 Email correspondence suggests that the meeting ultimately went forward,1135 but Flynn has no recollection of it or of the earlier December meeting.1136 (The investigation did not identify evidence of Flynn or Kushner meeting with Ushakov after being given his name. “1137)In the meantime, although he had already formed the impression that Kislyak was not necessarily the right point of contact,1138 Kushner went forward with the meeting that Kislyak had requested on November 16. It took place at Trump Tower on November 30, 2016.1139 At Kushner’s invitation, Flynn also attended; Bannon was invited but did not attend.1140 During the meeting, which lasted approximately 30 minutes, Kushner expressed a desire on the part of the incoming Administration to start afresh with U.S.-Russian relations.1141 Kushner also asked Kislyak to identify the best person (whether Kislyak or someone else) with whom to direct future discussions — someone who had contact with Putin and the ability to speak for him.1142 The three men also discussed U.S. policy toward Syria, and Kislyak floated the idea of having Russian generals brief the Transition Team on the topic using a secure communications line.1143 After Flynn explained that there was no secure line in the Transition Team offices,1132 Foresman 10/17/18 302, at 17.1133 Foresman 10/17/18 302, at 17-18.1134 Foresman 10/17/18 302, at 18.1135 RMF-SC0-00000015 (1/5/17 Email, Foresman to Atencio &amp; Flaherty); RMF-SC0-00000015 (1/5/17 Email, Flaherty to Foresman &amp; Atencio).1136 9/26/18 Attorney Proffer from Covington &amp; Burling LLP (reflected in email on file with the Office)1137 Vargas 4/4/18 302, at 5.1138 Kushner 11/1/17 302, at 4.1139 AKIN GUMP BERKOWITZ_0000016-019 (11/29/16 Email, Vargas to Kuznetsov).1140 Flynn 1/11/18 302, at 2; NOS00004240 (Calendar Invite, Vargas to Kushner &amp; Flynn).1141 Kushner Stmt. at 6.1142 Kushner Stmt. at 6; Kushner 4/11/18 302, at 18.1143 Kushner Stmt. at 7; Kushner 4/11/18 302, at 18; Flynn 1/11/18 302, at 2.Vol. 1, Page 160Kushner asked Kislyak if they could communicate using secure facilities at the Russian Embassy. 1144 Kislyak quickly rejected that idea. 1145On December 6, 2016, the Russian Embassy reached out to Kushner’s assistant to set up a second meeting between Kislyak and Kushner. 1146 Kushner declined several proposed meeting dates, but Kushner’s assistant indicated that Kislyak was very insistent about securing a second meeting. 1147 Kushner told the Office that he did not want to take another meeting because he had already decided Kislyak was not the right channel for him to communicate with Russia, so he arranged to have one of his assistants, Avi Berkowitz, meet with Kislyak in his stead. 1148 Although embassy official Sergey Kuznetsov wrote to Berkowitz that Kislyak thought it “important” to “continue the conversation with Mr. Kushner in person,” 1149 Kislyak nonetheless agreed to meet instead with Berkowitz once it became apparent that Kushner was unlikely to take a meeting.Berkowitz met with Kislyak on December 12, 2016, at Trump Tower.1150 The meeting lasted only a few minutes, during which Kislyak indicated that he wanted Kushner to meet someone who had a direct line to Putin: Sergey Gorkov, the head of the Russian-government-owned bank Vnesheconombank (VEB).Kushner agreed to meet with Gorkov. 1151 The one-on-one meeting took place the next day, December 13, 2016, at the Colony Capital building in Manhattan, where Kushner had previously scheduled meetings.1152 VEB was (and is) the subject of Department of Treasury economic sanctions imposed in response to Russia’s annexation of Crimea. 1153 Kushner did not, however, recall any discussion during his meeting with Gorkov about the sanctions against VEB or sanctions more generally. 1154 Kushner stated in an interview that he did not engage in any preparation for1144 Kushner 4/11/18 302, at 18.1145 Kushner 4/11/18 302, at 18.1146 Kushner Stmt. at 7; NOSC00000123 (12/6/16 Email, Vargas to Kushner (12:11:40 p.m.)).1147 Kushner 4/11/18 302, at 19; NOSC00000130 (12/12/16 Email, Kushner to Vargas (10:41 p.m.)).1148 Kushner 4/11/18 302, at 19; Kushner Stmt. at 7; DJTFP_SCO_01442290 (12/6/16 Email, Berkowitz to ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1149 DJTFP_SCO_01442290 (12/7/16 Email, ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ to Berkowitz (12:31:39 p.m.)).1150 Berkowitz 1/12/18 302, at 7; AKIN_GUMP_BERKOWITZ_000001-04 (12/12/16 Text Messages, Berkowitz &amp; 202-701-8532).1151 Kushner 4/11/18 302, at 19; NOSC00000130-135 (12/12/16 Email, Kushner to Berkowitz).1152 Kushner 4/11/18 302, at 19; NOSC00000130-135 (12/12/16 Email, Kushner to Berkowitz).1153 Announcement of Treasury Sanctions on Entities within the Financial Services and Energy Sectors of Russia, Against Arms or Related Materiel Entities, and those Undermining Ukraine’s Sovereignty, United States Department of the Treasury (Jul. 16, 2014).1154 Kushner 4/11/18 302, at 20. 161Vol. 1, Page 161the meeting and that no one on the Transition Team even did a Google search for Gorkov’s name. 1155At the start of the meeting, Gorkov presented Kushner with two gifts: a painting and a bag of soil from the town in Belarus where Kushner’s family originated. 1156The accounts from Kushner and Gorkov differ as to whether the meeting was diplomatic or business in nature. Kushner told the Office that the meeting was diplomatic, with Gorkov expressing disappointment with U.S.-Russia relations under President Obama and hopes for improved relations with the incoming Administration. 1157 According to Kushner, although Gorkov told Kushner a little bit about his bank and made some statements about the Russian economy, the two did not discuss Kushner’s companies or private business dealings of any kind.” 1158 (At the time of the meeting, Kushner Companies had a debt obligation coming due on the building it owned at 666 Fifth Avenue, and there had been public reporting both about efforts to secure lending on the property and possible conflicts of interest for Kushner arising out of his company’s borrowing from foreign lenders.1159)In contrast, in a 2017 public statement, VEB suggested Gorkov met with Kushner in Kushner’s capacity as CEO of Kushner Companies for the purpose of discussing business, rather than as part of a diplomatic effort. In particular, VEB characterized Gorkov’s meeting with Kushner as part of a series of “roadshow meetings” with “representatives of major US banks and business circles,” which included “negotiations” and discussion of the “most promising business lines and sectors."1160Foresman, the investment bank executive mentioned in Volume I, Sections IV.A.1 and IV.B.3, supra, told the Office that he met with Gorkov and VEB deputy chairman Nikolay Tsekhomsky in Moscow just before Gorkov left for New York to meet Kushner. 1161 According to Foresman, Gorkov and Tsekhomsky told him that they were traveling to New York to discuss post-election issues with U.S. financial institutions, that their trip was sanctioned by Putin, and that they would be reporting back to Putin upon their return. 11621155 Kushner 4/11/18 302, at 19. Berkowitz, by contrast, stated to the Office that he had googled Gorkov’s name and told Kushner that Gorkov appeared to be a banker. Berkowitz 1/12/18 302, at 8.1156 Kushner 4/11/18 302, at 19-20.1157 Kushner Stmt. at 8.1158 Kushner Stmt. at 8.1159 See, e.g., Peter Grant, Donald Trump Son-in-Law Jared Kushner Could Face His Own Conflict-of-Interest Questions, Wall Street Journal (Nov. 29, 2016).1160 Patrick Reevell &amp; Matthew Mosk, Russian Banker Sergey Gorkov Brushes off Questions About Meeting with Jared Kushner, ABC News (June 1, 2017).1161 Foresman 10/17/18 302, at 14-15.1162 Foresman 10/17/18 302, at 15-16. 162Vol. 1, Page 162The investigation did not resolve the apparent conflict in the accounts of Kushner and Gorkov or determine whether the meeting was diplomatic in nature (as Kushner stated), focused on business (as VEB’s public statement indicated), or whether it involved some combination of those matters or other matters. Regardless, the investigation did not identify evidence that Kushner and Gorkov engaged in any substantive follow-up after the meeting.Rather, a few days after the meeting, Gorkov’s assistant texted Kushner’s assistant, “Hi, please inform your side that the information about the meeting had a very positive response!"1163 Over the following weeks, the two assistants exchanged a handful of additional cordial texts. 1164 On February 8, 2017, Gorkov’s assistant texted Kushner’s assistant (Berkowitz) to try to set up another meeting, and followed up by text at least twice in the days that followed. 1165 According to Berkowitz, he did not respond to the meeting request in light of the press coverage regarding the Russia investigation, and did not tell Kushner about the meeting request. 1166In December 2016, weeks after the one-on-one meeting with Putin described in Volume I, Section IV.B.1.b, supra, Petr Aven attended what he described as a separate “all-hands” oligarch meeting between Putin and Russia’s most prominent businessmen. 1167 As in Aven’s one-on-one meeting, a main topic of discussion at the oligarch meeting in December 2016 was the prospect of forthcoming U.S. economic sanctions."1168After the December 2016 all-hands meeting, Aven tried to establish a connection to the Trump team. Aven instructed Richard Burt to make contact with the incoming Trump Administration. Burt was on the board of directors for LetterOne (L1), another company headed by Aven, and had done work for Alfa-Bank. 1169 Burt had previously served as U.S. ambassador to Germany and Assistant Secretary of State for European and Canadian Affairs, and one of his primary roles with Alfa-Bank and Ll was to facilitate introductions to business contacts in the United States and other Western countries. 1170While at a Ll board meeting held in Luxembourg in late December 2016, Aven pulled Burt aside and told him that he had spoken to someone high in the Russian government who expressed1163 AKINGUMP BERKOWITZ_0000011 (12/19/16 Text Message, Ivanchenko to Berkowitz (9:56 a.m.))1164 AKIN GUMP BERKOWITZ_0000011-15 (12/19/16 – 2/16/17 Text Messages, Ivanchenko &amp; Berkowitz).1165 AKIN GUMP BERKOWITZ 0000015 (2/8/17 Text Message, Ivanchenko to Berkowitz (10:41 a.m.)).1166 Berkowitz 3/22/18 302, at 4-5.1167 Aven 8/2/18 302, at 7;■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1168■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1169■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1170■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ Aven 8/2/18 302, at 6. 1170 Grand Jury Aven 8/2/18 302, at 6; Burt 2/9/18 302, at 2.Vol. 1, Page 163interest in establishing a communications channel between the Kremlin and the Trump Transition Team. 1171 Aven asked for Burt’s help in contacting members of the Transition Team. 1172 Although Burt had been responsible for helping Aven build connections in the past, Burt viewed Aven’s request as unusual and outside the normal realm of his dealings with Aven. 1173Burt, who is a member of the board of CNI (discussed at Volume I, Section IV.A.4, supra), 1174 decided to approach CNI president Dimitri Simes for help facilitating Aven’s request, recalling that Simes had some relationship with Kushner. 1175 At the time, Simes was lobbying the Trump Transition Team, on Burt’s behalf, to appoint Burt U.S. ambassador to Russia. 1176Burt contacted Simes by telephone and asked if he could arrange a meeting with Kushner to discuss setting up a high-level communications channel between Putin and the incoming Administration. 1177 Simes told the Office that he declined and stated to Burt that setting up such a channel was not a good idea in light of the media attention surrounding Russian influence in the U.S. presidential election. 1178 According to Simes, he understood that Burt was seeking a secret channel, and Simes did not want CNI to be seen as an intermediary between the Russian government and the incoming Administration. 1179 Based on what Simes had read in the media, he stated that he already had concerns that Trump’s business connections could be exploited by Russia, and Simes said that he did not want CNI to have any involvement or apparent involvement in facilitating any connection. 1180In an email dated December 22, 2016, Burt recounted for Aven his conversation with Simes:1171 Burt 2/9/18 302, at 2;■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1172 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1173 Burt 2/9/18 302, at 4.1174 Burt 2/9/18 302, at 5.1175 Burt 2/9/18 302, at 3.1176 Burt 2/9/18 302, at 3.1177 Burt 2/9/18 302, at 3; Simes 3/27/18 302, at 4.1178 Burt 2/9/18 302, at 3; Simes 3/27/18 302, at 4.1179 Simes 3/27/18 302, at 5.1180 Simes 3/27/18 302, at 5.118112/22/16 Email, Burt to Aven (7:23 p.m.).Vol. 1, Page 164According to Burt, the “very influential person” referenced in his email was Simes, and the reference to a “trusted third party” was a fabrication, as no such third party existed. “Project A” was a term that Burt created for Aven’s effort to help establish a communications channel between Russia and the Trump team, which he used in light of the sensitivities surrounding what Aven was requesting, especially in light of the recent attention to Russia’s influence in the U.S. presidential election. 1182 According to Burt, his report that there was “interest in a communications channel reflected Simes’s views, not necessarily those of the Transition Team, and in any event, Burt acknowledged that he added some “hype” to that sentence to make it sound like there was more interest from the Transition Team than may have actually existed. 1183Aven replied to Burt’s email on the same day, saying “Thank you. All clear.”1184 According to Aven, this statement indicated that he did not want the outreach to continue.1185 Burt spoke to Aven some time thereafter about his attempt to make contact with the Trump team, explaining to Aven that the current environment made it impossible, ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■.1186 Burt did not recall discussing Aven’s request with Simes again, nor did he recall speaking to anyone else about the request. 1187In the first quarter of 2017, Aven met again with Putin and other Russian officials. 1188 At that meeting, Putin asked about Aven’s attempt to build relations with the Trump Administration, and Aven recounted his lack of success. 1189 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ 1190 Putin continued to inquire about Aven’s efforts to connect to the Trump Administration in several subsequent quarterly meetings.1191Aven also told Putin’s chief of staff that he had been subpoenaed by the FBI.1192 As part of that conversation, he reported that he had been asked by the FBI about whether he had worked to create a back channel between the Russian government and the Trump Administration. 11931182 Burt 2/9/18 302, at 3.1183 Burt 2/9/18 302, at 3-4.1184 12/22/16 Email, Aven to Burt (4:58:22 p.m.).1185 Aven 8/2/18 302, at 7.1186■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1187 Burt 2/9/18 302, at 3-4.1188■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1189■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ Aven 8/2/18 302, at 7.1190■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1191■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1192 Aven 8/2/18 302, at 8.1193 Aven 8/2/18 302, at 8; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Vol. 1, Page 165According to Aven, the official showed no emotion in response to this report and did not appear to care. 1194In December 2016, more than two months after he was removed from the Trump Campaign, former Campaign foreign policy advisor Carter Page again visited Moscow in an attempt to pursue business opportunities. 1195 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ 1196 According to Konstantin Kilimnik, Paul Manafort’s associate, Page also gave some individuals in Russia the impression that he had maintained his connections to President-Elect Trump. In a December 8, 2016 email intended for Manafort, Kilimnik wrote, “Carter Page is in Moscow today, sending messages he is authorized to talk to Russia on behalf of DT on a range of issues of mutual interest, including Ukraine."1197On December 9, 2016, Page went to dinner with NES employees Shlomo Weber and Andrej Krickovic. 1198 Weber had contacted Dvorkovich to let him know that Page was in town and to invite him to stop by the dinner if he wished to do so, and Dvorkovich came to the restaurant for a few minutes to meet with Page. 1199 Dvorkovich congratulated Page on Trump’s election and expressed interest in starting a dialogue between the United States and Russia. 1200 Dvorkovich asked Page if he could facilitate connecting Dvorkovich with individuals involved in the transition to begin a discussion of future cooperation.1201■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ 1202 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ 12031194 Aven 8/2/18 302, at 8; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1194 Page 3/10/17 302, at 4; Page 3/16/17 302, at 3; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ Among other meetings, Page contacted Andrey Baranov, head of investor relations at Rosneft, and they discussed the sale of Rosneft and meetings Baranov had attended with Rosneft CEO Igor Sechin.■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1196■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1197■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1198 Page 3/16/17 302, at 3; Page 3/30/17 302, at 8.1199 Weber 7/28/17 302, at 4; Page 3/16/17 302, at 3; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1200 Page 3/16/17 302, at 3; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1201 Page 3/16/17 302, at 3; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1202■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1203■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Vol. 1, Page 166■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ Dvorkovich separately discussed working together in the future by forming an academic partnership.1204 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ 1205 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ 1206 Incoming National Security Advisor Michael Flynn was the Transition Team’s primary conduit for communications with the Russian Ambassador and dealt with Russia on two sensitive matters during the transition period: a United Nations Security Council vote and the Russian government’s reaction to the United States’s imposition of sanctions for Russian interference in the 2016 election. 1207 Despite Kushner’s conclusion that Kislyak did not wield influence inside the Russian government, the Transition Team turned to Flynn’s relationship with Kislyak on both issues. As to the sanctions, Flynn spoke by phone to K.T. McFarland, his incoming deputy, to prepare for his call to Kislyak; McFarland was with the President-Elect and other senior members of the Transition Team at Mar-a-Lago at the time. Although transition officials at Mar-a-Lago had some concern about possible Russian reactions to the sanctions, the investigation did not identify evidence that the President-Elect asked Flynn to make any request to Kislyak. Flynn asked Kislyak not to escalate the situation in response to U.S. sanctions imposed on December 29, 2016, and Kislyak later reported to Flynn that Russia acceded to that request.On December 21, 2016, Egypt submitted a resolution to the United Nations Security Council calling on Israel to cease settlement activities in Palestinian territory. 1208 The Security Council, which includes Russia, was scheduled to vote on the resolution the following day. 1209 There was speculation in the media that the Obama Administration would not oppose the resolution. 12101204■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1205■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1206■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1207As discussed further in Volume I, Section V.C.4, infra, Flynn pleaded guilty to making false statements to the FBI, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1001, about these communications with Ambassador Kislyak. Plea Agreement, United States v. Michael T. Flynn, No. 1:17-cr-232 (D.D.C. Dec. 1, 2017), Doc. 3. Flynn’s plea agreement required that he cooperate with this Office, and the statements from Flynn in this report reflect his cooperation over the course of multiple debriefings in 2017 and 2018.1208 Karen De Young, How the U.S. Came to Abstain on a U.N. Resolution Condemning Israeli Settlements, Washington Post (Dec. 28, 2016).1209 Karen De Young, How the U.S. Came to Abstain on a U.N. Resolution Condemning Israeli Settlements, Washington Post (Dec. 28, 2016).1210 Michelle Nichols &amp; Lesley Wroughton, U.S. Intended to Allow Passage of U.N. Draft Critical of Israel, Reuters (Dec. 21, 2016).Vol. 1, Page 167According to Flynn, the Transition Team regarded the vote as a significant issue and wanted to support Israel by opposing the resolution.1211 On December 22, 2016, multiple members of the Transition Team, as well as President-Elect Trump, communicated with foreign government officials to determine their views on the resolution and to rally support to delay the vote or defeat the resolution. 1212 Kushner led the effort for the Transition Team; Flynn was responsible for the Russian government.1213 Minutes after an early morning phone call with Kushner on December 22, Flynn called Kislyak.1214 According to Flynn, he informed Kislyak about the vote and the Transition Team’s opposition to the resolution, and requested that Russia vote against or delay the resolution. 1215 Later that day, President-Elect Trump spoke with Egyptian President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi about the vote. 1216 Ultimately, Egypt postponed the vote. 1217On December 23, 2016, Malaysia, New Zealand, Senegal, and Venezuela resubmitted the resolution. 1218 Throughout the day, members of the Transition Team continued to talk with foreign leaders about the resolution, with Flynn continuing to lead the outreach with the Russian government through Kislyak.1219 When Flynn again spoke with Kislyak, Kislyak informed Flynn that if the resolution came to a vote, Russia would not vote against it. 1220 The resolution later passed 14-0, with the United States abstaining. 1221Flynn was also the Transition Team member who spoke with the Russian government when the Obama Administration imposed sanctions and other measures against Russia in response to Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election. On December 28, 2016, then-President Obama signed Executive Order 13757, which took effect at 12:01 a.m. the following day and1211 Flynn 11/16/17 302, at 12; Flynn 11/17/17 302, at 2.1212 Flynn 11/16/17 302, at 12-14; Flynn 11/17/17 302, at 2.1213 Flynn 11/16/17 302, at 12-14; Flynn 11/17/17 302, at 2; Kushner 11/1/17 302, at 3; 12/22/16 Email, Kushner to Flynn; 12/22/16 Email, McFarland to ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ et al.1214 Flynn 11/16/17 302, at 13; Call Records of Michael T. Flynn ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1215 Statement of Offense , 3(d), United States v. Michael T. Flynn, No. 1:17-cr-232 (D.D.C. Dec. 1, 2017), Doc. 4 (“Flynn Statement of Offense”); Flynn 11/16/17 302, at 12-13.1216 Flynn 11/17/17 302, at 2; Flynn 11/16/17 302, at 13.1217 U.N. Vote on Israeli Settlement Postponed, “Potentially Indefinitely”, Reuters (Dec. 22, 2016).1218 Somini Sengupta &amp; Rick Gladstone, Rebuffing Israel, U.S. Allows Censure Over Settlements, New York Times (Dec. 23, 2016).1219 Flynn 11/16/17 302, at 12-14; Kushner 11/1/17 302, at 3; 12/23/16 Email, Flynn to Kushner et al.1220 Flynn Statement of Offense 13(g).12211221 Israel’s Settlements Have No Legal Validity, Constitute Flagrant Violation of International Law, Security Council Reaffirms, 7853rd Meeting (PM), United Nations Security Council (Dec. 23, 2016).Vol. 1, Page 168imposed sanctions on nine Russian individuals and entities.1222 On December 29, 2016, the Obama Administration also expelled 35 Russian government officials and closed two Russian government-owned compounds in the United States. 1223During the rollout of the sanctions, President-Elect Trump and multiple Transition Team senior officials, including McFarland, Steve Bannon, and Reince Priebus, were staying at the Mar-a-Lago club in Palm Beach, Florida. Flynn was on vacation in the Dominican Republic, 1224 but was in daily contact with McFarland. 1225The Transition Team and President-Elect Trump were concerned that these sanctions would harm the United States’s relationship with Russia. 1226 Although the details and timing of sanctions were unknown on December 28, 2016, the media began reporting that retaliatory measures from the Obama Administration against Russia were forthcoming. 1227 When asked about imposing sanctions on Russia for its alleged interference in the 2016 presidential election, President-Elect Trump told the media, “I think we ought to get on with our lives.” 1228Russia initiated the outreach to the Transition Team. On the evening of December 28, 2016, Kislyak texted Flynn, “can you kindly call me back at your convenience.” 1229 Flynn did not respond to the text message that evening. Someone from the Russian Embassy also called Flynn the next morning, at 10:38 a.m., but they did not talk. 1230The sanctions were announced publicly on December 29, 2016.1231 At 1:53 p.m. that day, McFarland began exchanging emails with multiple Transition Team members and advisors about the impact the sanctions would have on the incoming Administration.1232 At 2:07 p.m., a Transition Team member texted Flynn a link to a New York Times article about the sanctions. 1233 At 2:291222 Taking Additional Steps to Address the National Emergency With Respect to Significant Malicious Cyber-Enabled Activities, The White House, Office of the Press Secretary (Dec. 29, 2016).1223 Statement by the President on Actions in Response to Russian Malicious Cyber Activity and Harassment, The White House, Office of the Press Secretary (Dec. 29, 2016).1224 Flynn 11/16/17 302, at 14; McFarland 12/22/17 302, at 3-8; Bannon 2/12/18 302, at 5.1225 Flynn 11/17/17 302, at 5; Flynn 1/19/18 302, at 1; McFarland 11/22/17 302, at 3-9.1226 Flynn 11/17/17 302, at 3.1227 Christine Wang, US to announce new sanctions against Russia in response to election hacking, CNBC (Dec. 28, 2016).1228 John Wagner, Trump on alleged election interference by Russia: “Get on with our lives", Washington Post (Dec. 29, 2016).1229 SF000006 (12/28/16 Text Message, Kislyak to Flynn).1230Call Records of Michael T. Flynn ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1231 Flynn 11/17/17 302, at 2-3; McFarland 12/22/17 302, at 4-5.1232 12/29/16 Email, McFarland to O’Brien et al.; 12/29/16 Email, McFarland to Flynn et al.1233 SF000001 (12/29/16 Text Message, Flaherty to Flynn).Vol. 1, Page 169p.m., McFarland called Flynn, but they did not talk. 1234 Shortly thereafter, McFarland and Bannon discussed the sanctions.1235 According to McFarland, Bannon remarked that the sanctions would hurt their ability to have good relations with Russia, and that Russian escalation would make things more difficult. 1236 McFarland believed she told Bannon that Flynn was scheduled to talk to Kislyak later that night.1237 McFarland also believed she may have discussed the sanctions with Priebus, and likewise told him that Flynn was scheduled to talk to Kislyak that night.1238 At 3:14 p.m., Flynn texted a Transition Team member who was assisting McFarland, “Time for a call???” 1239 The Transition Team member responded that McFarland was on the phone with Tom Bossert, a Transition Team senior official, to which Flynn responded, “Tit for tat w Russia not good. Russian AMBO reaching out to me today.” 1240Flynn recalled that he chose not to communicate with Kislyak about the sanctions until he had heard from the team at Mar-a-Lago.1241 He first spoke with Michael Ledeen, 1242 a Transition Team member who advised on foreign policy and national security matters, for 20 minutes. 1243 Flynn then spoke with McFarland for almost 20 minutes to discuss what, if anything, to communicate to Kislyak about the sanctions.1244 On that call, McFarland and Flynn discussed the sanctions, including their potential impact on the incoming Trump Administration’s foreign policy goals. 1245 McFarland and Flynn also discussed that Transition Team members in Mar-a-Lago did not want Russia to escalate the situation.1246 They both understood that Flynn would relay a message to Kislyak in hopes of making sure the situation would not get out of hand. 12471234 Call Records of K.T. McFarland ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1235 McFarland 12/22/17 302, at 5-6.1236 McFarland 12/22/17 302, at 5-6.1237 McFarland 12/22/17 302, at 6.1238 McFarland 12/22/17 302, at 6.1239 SF000001 (12/29/16 Text Message, Flynn to Flaherty).1240 SF000001 (12/29/16 Text Message, Flynn to Flaherty).1241 Flynn 11/20/17 302, at 3.1242 Michael Ledeen is married to Barbara Ledeen, the Senate staffer whose 2016 efforts to locate Hillary Clinton’s missing emails are described in Volume I, Section III.D.2, supra.1243 Flynn 11/17/17 302, at 3; Call Records of Michael Ledeen ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1244 Flynn 11/17/17 302, at 3-4; Flynn Statement of Offense ¶3(c); Call Records of K.T. McFarland ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■; Call Records of Michael T. Flynn ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1245 Flynn 11/17/17 302, at 3-41246 Flynn 11/17/17 302, at 3-4; Flynn Statement of Offense ¶3(c); McFarland 12/22/17 302, at 6-71247 Flynn 11/17/17 302, at 4; McFarland 12/22/17 302, at 6-7.Vol. 1, Page 170Immediately after speaking with McFarland, Flynn called and spoke with Kislyak. 1248 Flynn discussed multiple topics with Kislyak, including the sanctions, scheduling a video teleconference between President-Elect Trump and Putin, an upcoming terrorism conference, and Russia’s views about the Middle East. 1249 With respect to the sanctions, Flynn requested that Russia not escalate the situation, not get into a “tit for tat,” and only respond to the sanctions in a reciprocal manner. 1250Multiple Transition Team members were aware that Flynn was speaking with Kislyak that day. In addition to her conversations with Bannon and Reince Priebus, at 4:43 p.m., McFarland sent an email to Transition Team members about the sanctions, informing the group that “Gen [F]lynn is talking to russian ambassador this evening.” 1251 Less than an hour later, McFarland briefed President-Elect Trump. Bannon, Priebus, Sean Spicer, and other Transition Team members were present. 1252 During the briefing, President-Elect Trump asked McFarland if the Russians did “it,” meaning the intrusions intended to influence the presidential election.1253 McFarland said yes, and President-Elect Trump expressed doubt that it was the Russians.1254 McFarland also discussed potential Russian responses to the sanctions, and said Russia’s response would be an indicator of what the Russians wanted going forward.1255 President-Elect Trump opined that the sanctions provided him with leverage to use with the Russians. 1256 McFarland recalled that at the end of the meeting, someone may have mentioned to President-Elect Trump that Flynn was speaking to the Russian ambassador that evening. 1257After the briefing, Flynn and McFarland spoke over the phone. 1258 Flynn reported on the substance of his call with Kislyak, including their discussion of the sanctions.1259 According to McFarland, Flynn mentioned that the Russian response to the sanctions was not going to be escalatory because they wanted a good relationship with the incoming Administration. 1260 McFarland also gave Flynn a summary of her recent briefing with President-Elect Trump. 12611248 Flynn Statement of Offense ¶3(d).1249 Flynn 11/17/17 302, at 3-4; Flynn Statement of Offense ¶3(c); 12/30/16 Email, Flynn to McFarland.1250 Flynn 11/17/17 302, at 1; Flynn Statement of Offense ¶3(d).12511251 12/29/16 Email, McFarland to Flynn et al.1252 12/29/16 Email, Westerhout to Flaherty; McFarland 12/22/17 302, at 7.1253 McFarland 12/22/17 302, at 7.1254 McFarland 12/22/17 302, at 7.1255 McFarland 12/22/17 302, at 7.1256 McFarland 12/22/17 302, at 7.1257 McFarland 12/22/17 302, at 7.1258 McFarland 12/22/17 302, at 7.1259 Flynn 11/17/17 302, at 4; Flynn Statement of Offense ¶3(e).1260 McFarland 12/22/17 302, at 8.1261 McFarland 12/22/17 302, at 8.Vol. 1, Page 171The next day, December 30, 2016, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov remarked that Russia would respond in kind to the sanctions. 1262 Putin superseded that comment two hours later, releasing a statement that Russia would not take retaliatory measures in response to the sanctions at that time.1263 Hours later President-Elect Trump tweeted, “Great move on delay (by V. Putin).” 1264 Shortly thereafter, Flynn sent a text message to McFarland summarizing his call with Kislyak from the day before, which she emailed to Kushner, Bannon, Priebus, and other Transition Team members. 1265 The text message and email did not include sanctions as one of the topics discussed with Kislyak. 1266 Flynn told the Office that he did not document his discussion of sanctions because it could be perceived as getting in the way of the Obama Administration’s foreign policy. 1267On December 31, 2016, Kislyak called Flynn and told him the request had been received at the highest levels and that Russia had chosen not to retaliate to the sanctions in response to the request. 1268 Two hours later, Flynn spoke with McFarland and relayed his conversation with Kislyak. 1269 According to McFarland, Flynn remarked that the Russians wanted a better relationship and that the relationship was back on track. 1270 Flynn also told McFarland that he believed his phone call had made a difference.1271 McFarland recalled congratulating Flynn in response. 1272 Flynn spoke with other Transition Team members that day, but does not recall whether they discussed the sanctions.1273 Flynn recalled discussing the sanctions with Bannon the next day and that Bannon appeared to know about Flynn’s conversation with Kislyak. 1274 Bannon,1262 Comment by Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov on recent US sanctions and the expulsion of Russian diplomats, Moscow, December 20, 2016, The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation (Dec. 30, 2016 (5:32 a.m.)).1263 Statement of the President of the Russian Federation, Kremlin, Office of the President (Dec. 30, 2016 (7:15 a.m.)).1264 @realDonaldTrump 12/30/16 (11:41 a.m.) Tweet.1265 12/30/16 Email, Flynn to McFarland; 12/30/16 Email, McFarland to Kushner et al.1266 12/30/16 Email, McFarland to Kushner et al.1267 Flynn 11/17/17 302, at 4.1268 Call Records of Michael T. Flynn ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ ; Flynn 11/17/17 302, at 1; Flynn 1/19/17 302, at 3; Flynn Statement of Offense ¶3(g).1269 Call Records of Michael T. Flynn ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ ; Flynn 11/17/17 302, at 5; Flynn 1/19/17 302, at 3; McFarland 12/22/17 302, at 10.1270 McFarland 12/22/17 302, at 10.1271 McFarland 12/22/17 302, at 10.1272 McFarland 12/22/17 302, at 10.1273 Flynn 11/17/17 302, at 5-6.1274 Flynn 11/21/17 302, at 1; Flynn 11/20/17 302, at 3; Flynn 1/19/17 302, at 5; Flynn Statement of Offense ¶3(h). 172Vol. 1, Page 172for his part, recalled meeting with Flynn that day, but said that he did not remember discussing sanctions with him. 1275Additional information about Flynn’s sanctions-related discussions with Kislyak, and the handling of those discussions by the Transition Team and the Trump Administration, is provided in Volume II of this report.* * *In sum, the investigation established multiple links between Trump Campaign officials and individuals tied to the Russian government. Those links included Russian offers of assistance to the Campaign. In some instances, the Campaign was receptive to the offer, while in other instances the Campaign officials shied away. Ultimately, the investigation did not establish that the Campaign coordinated or conspired with the Russian government in its election-interference activities.1275 Bannon 2/12/18 302, at 9.Vol. 1, Page 173The Appointment Order authorized the Special Counsel’s Office “to prosecute federal crimes arising from [its] investigation” of the matters assigned to it. In deciding whether to exercise this prosecutorial authority, the Office has been guided by the Principles of Federal Prosecution set forth in the Justice (formerly U.S. Attorney’s) Manual. In particular, the Office has evaluated whether the conduct of the individuals considered for prosecution constituted a federal offense and whether admissible evidence would probably be sufficient to obtain and sustain a conviction for such an offense. Justice Manual &amp; 9-27.220 (2018). Where the answer to those questions was yes, the Office further considered whether the prosecution would serve a substantial federal interest, the individuals were subject to effective prosecution in another jurisdiction, and there existed an adequate non-criminal alternative to prosecution. Id.As explained below, those considerations led the Office to seek charges against two sets of Russian nationals for their roles in perpetrating the active-measures social media campaign and computer-intrusion operations. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ The Office similarly determined that the contacts between Campaign officials and Russia-linked individuals either did not involve the commission of a federal crime or, in the case of campaign-finance offenses, that our evidence was not sufficient to obtain and sustain a criminal conviction. At the same time, the Office concluded that the Principles of Federal Prosecution supported charging certain individuals connected to the Campaign with making false statements or otherwise obstructing this investigation or parallel congressional investigations.On February 16, 2018, a federal grand jury in the District of Columbia returned an indictment charging 13 Russian nationals and three Russian entities — including the Internet Research Agency (IRA) and Concord Management and Consulting LLC (Concord) — with violating U.S. criminal laws in order to interfere with U.S. elections and political processes. 1276 The indictment charges all of the defendants with conspiracy to defraud the United States (Count One), three defendants with conspiracy to commit wire fraud and bank fraud (Count Two), and five defendants with aggravated identity theft (Counts Three through Eight). Internet Research Agency Indictment. Concord, which is one of the entities charged in the Count One conspiracy, entered an appearance through U.S. counsel and moved to dismiss the charge on multiple grounds. In orders and memorandum opinions issued on August 13 and November 15, 2018, the district court denied Concord’s motions to dismiss. United States v. Concord Management &amp; Consulting LLC, 347 F. Supp. 3d 38 (D.D.C. 2018). United States v. Concord Management &amp; Consulting LLC, 317 F. Supp. 3d 598 (D.D.C. 2018). As of this writing, the prosecution of Concord remains ongoing before the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia. The other defendants remain at large.1276 A more detailed explanation of the charging decision in this case is set forth in a separate memorandum provided to the Acting Attorney General before the indictment.Vol. 1, Page 174Although members of the IRA had contact with individuals affiliated with the Trump Campaign, the indictment does not charge any Trump Campaign official or any other U.S. person with participating in the conspiracy. That is because the investigation did not identify evidence that any U.S. person who coordinated or communicated with the IRA knew that he or she was speaking with Russian nationals engaged in the criminal conspiracy. The Office therefore determined that such persons did not have the knowledge or criminal purpose required to charge them in the conspiracy to defraud the United States (Count One) or in the separate count alleging a wire-and bank-fraud conspiracy involving the IRA and two individual Russian nationals (Count Two).The Office did, however, charge one U.S. national for his role in supplying false or stolen bank account numbers that allowed the IRA conspirators to access U.S. online payment systems by circumventing those systems’ security features. On February 12, 2018, Richard Pinedo pleaded guilty, pursuant to a single-count information, to identity fraud, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1028(a)(7) and (b)(1)(D). Plea Agreement, United States v. Richard Pinedo, No. 1:18-cr-24 (D.D.C. Feb. 12, 2018), Doc. 10. The investigation did not establish that Pinedo was aware of the identity of the IRA members who purchased bank account numbers from him. Pinedo’s sales of account numbers enabled the IRA members to anonymously access a financial network through which they transacted with U.S. persons and companies. See Gov’t Sent. Mem. at 3, United States v. Richard Pinedo, No. 1:18-cr-24 (D.D.C. Sept. 26, 2018), Doc. 24. On October 10, 2018, Pinedo was sentenced to six months of imprisonment, to be followed by six months of home confinement, and was ordered to complete 100 hours of community service.On July 13, 2018, a federal grand jury in the District of Columbia returned an indictment charging Russian military intelligence officers from the GRU with conspiring to hack into various U.S. computers used by the Clinton Campaign, DNC, DCCC, and other U.S. persons, in violation of 18 U.S.C. §§ 1030 and 371 (Count One); committing identity theft and conspiring to commit money laundering in furtherance of that hacking conspiracy, in violation of 18 U.S.C. §§1028A and 1956(h) (Counts Two through Ten); and a separate conspiracy to hack into the computers of U.S. persons and entities responsible for the administration of the 2016 U.S. election, in violation of 18 U.S.C. §§ 1030 and 371 (Count Eleven). Netyksho Indictment. 1277 As of this writing, all 12 defendants remain at large.The Netyksho indictment alleges that the defendants conspired with one another and with others to hack into the computers of U.S. persons and entities involved in the 2016 U.S. presidential election, steal documents from those computers, and stage releases of the stolen documents to interfere in the election. Netyksho Indictment ¶2. The indictment also describes how, in staging1277 The Office provided a more detailed explanation of the charging decision in this case in meetings with the Office of the Acting Attorney General before the indictment.Vol. 1, Page 175the releases, the defendants used the Guccifer 2.0 persona to disseminate documents through WikiLeaks. On July 22, 2016, WikiLeaks released over 20,000 emails and other documents that the hacking conspirators had stolen from the DNC. Netyksho Indictment 148. In addition, on October 7, 2016, WikiLeaks began releasing emails that some conspirators had stolen from Clinton Campaign chairman John Podesta after a successful spearphishing operation. Netyksho Indictment ¶49.■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ 1278 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1278 The Office also considered, but ruled out, charges on the theory that the post-hacking sharing and dissemination of emails could constitute trafficking in or receipt of stolen property under the National Stolen Property Act (NSPA), 18 U.S.C. §§ 2314 and 2315. The statutes comprising the NSPA cover “goods, wares, or merchandise,” and lower courts have largely understood that phrase to be limited to tangible items since the Supreme Court’s decision in Dowling v. United States, 473 U.S. 207 (1985). See United States v. Yijia Zhang, 995 F. Supp. 2d 340, 344-48 (E.D. Pa. 2014) (collecting cases). One of those post-Dowling decisions — United States v. Brown, 925 F.2d 1301 (10th Cir. 1991)-specifically held that the NSPA does not reach “a computer program in source code form,” even though that code was stored in tangible items (i.e., a hard disk and in a three-ring notebook). Id. at 1302-03. Congress, in turn, cited the Brown opinion in explaining the need for amendments to 18 U.S.C. § 1030(a)(2) that “would ensure that the theft of intangible information by the unauthorized use of a computer is prohibited in the same way theft of physical items [is] protected.” S. Rep. 104-357, at 7 (1996). That sequence of events would make it difficult to argue that hacked emails in electronic form, which are the relevant stolen items here, constitute “goods, wares, or merchandise” within the meaning of the NSPA. 176Vol. 1, Page 176■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Vol. 1, Page 177■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ 1279 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1279 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Vol. 1, Page 178■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ See United States v. Willis, 476 F.3d 1121, 1125 n.1 (10th Cir. 2007) (explaining that the 1986 amendments to Section 1030 reflect Congress’s desire to reach “intentional acts of unauthorized access — rather than mistaken, inadvertent, or careless ones’) (quoting S. Rep. 99-432, at 5 (1986)). In addition, the computer ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ likely qualifies as a “protected” one under the statute, which reaches “effectively all computers with Internet access.” United States v. Nosal, 676 F.3d 854, 859 (9th Cir. 2012) (en banc). ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Applying the Principles of Federal Prosecution, however, the Office determined that prosecution of this potential violation was not warranted. Those Principles instruct prosecutors to consider, among other things, the nature and seriousness of the offense, the person’s culpability in connection with the offense, and the probable sentence to be imposed if the prosecution is successful. Justice Manual § 9-27.230. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Vol. 1, Page 179■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■As explained in Section IV above, the Office’s investigation uncovered evidence of numerous links (i.e., contacts) between Trump Campaign officials and individuals having or claiming to have ties to the Russian government. The Office evaluated the contacts under several sets of federal laws, including conspiracy laws and statutes governing foreign agents who operate in the United States. After considering the available evidence, the Office did not pursue charges under these statutes against any of the individuals discussed in Section IV above — with the exception of FARA charges against Paul Manafort and Richard Gates based on their activities on behalf of Ukraine.One of the interactions between the Trump Campaign and Russian-affiliated individuals – the June 9, 2016 meeting between high-ranking campaign officials and Russians promising derogatory information on Hillary Clinton-implicates an additional body of law: campaign-finance statutes. Schemes involving the solicitation or receipt of assistance from foreign sources raise difficult statutory and constitutional questions. As explained below, the Office evaluated those questions in connection with the June 9 meeting ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ The Office ultimately concluded that, even if the principal legal questions were resolved favorably to the government, a prosecution would encounter difficulties proving that Campaign officials or individuals connected to the Campaign willfully violated the law.Finally, although the evidence of contacts between Campaign officials and Russia-affiliated individuals may not have been sufficient to establish or sustain criminal charges, several U.S. persons connected to the Campaign made false statements about those contacts and took other steps to obstruct the Office’s investigation and those of Congress. This Office has therefore charged some of those individuals with making false statements and obstructing justice.As an initial matter, this Office evaluated potentially criminal conduct that involved the collective action of multiple individuals not under the rubric of “collusion,” but through the lens of conspiracy law. In so doing, the Office recognized that the word “collud[e]” appears in the Acting Attorney General’s August 2, 2017 memorandum; it has frequently been invoked in public reporting; and it is sometimes referenced in antitrust law, see, e.g., Brooke Group v. Brown &amp; Williamson Tobacco Corp., 509 U.S. 209, 227 (1993). But collusion is not a specific offense or theory of liability found in the U.S. Code; nor is it a term of art in federal criminal law. To the contrary, even as defined in legal dictionaries, collusion is largely synonymous with conspiracy as that crime is set forth in the general federal conspiracy statute, 18 U.S.C. §371. See Black’s Law Dictionary 321 (10th ed. 2014) (collusion is “[a]n agreement to defraud another or to do or obtain something forbidden by law"); 1 Alexander Burrill, A Law Dictionary and Glossary 311 (1871) (“An agreement between two or more persons to defraud another by the forms of law, or to employ such forms as means of accomplishing some unlawful object."); 1 Bouvier’s Law Dictionary 352Vol. 1, Page 180(1897) (“An agreement between two or more persons to defraud a person of his rights by the forms of law, or to obtain an object forbidden by law.").For that reason, this Office’s focus in resolving the question of joint criminal liability was on conspiracy as defined in federal law, not the commonly discussed term “collusion.” The Office considered in particular whether contacts between Trump Campaign officials and Russia-linked individuals could trigger liability for the crime of conspiracy-either under statutes that have their own conspiracy language (e.g., 18 U.S.C. §§ 1349, 1951(a)), or under the general conspiracy statute (18 U.S.C. § 371). The investigation did not establish that the contacts described in Volume I, Section IV, supra, amounted to an agreement to commit any substantive violation of federal criminal law — including foreign-influence and campaign-finance laws, both of which are discussed further below. The Office therefore did not charge any individual associated with the Trump Campaign with conspiracy to commit a federal offense arising from Russia contacts, either under a specific statute or under Section 371’s offenses clause.The Office also did not charge any campaign official or associate with a conspiracy under Section 371’s defraud clause. That clause criminalizes participating in an agreement to obstruct a lawful function of the U.S. government or its agencies through deceitful or dishonest means. See Dennis v. United States, 384 U.S. 855, 861 (1966); Hammerschmidt v. United States, 265 U.S. 182, 188 (1924); see also United States v. Concord Mgmt. &amp; Consulting LLC, 347 F. Supp. 3d 38, 46 (D.D.C. 2018). The investigation did not establish any agreement among Campaign officials— or between such officials and Russia-linked individuals — to interfere with or obstruct a lawful function of a government agency during the campaign or transition period. And, as discussed in Volume 1, Section V.A, supra, the investigation did not identify evidence that any Campaign official or associate knowingly and intentionally participated in the conspiracy to defraud that the Office charged, namely, the active-measures conspiracy described in Volume 1, Section II, supra. Accordingly, the Office did not charge any Campaign associate or other U.S. person with conspiracy to defraud the United States based on the Russia-related contacts described in Section IV above.The Office next assessed the potential liability of Campaign-affiliated individuals under federal statutes regulating actions on behalf of, or work done for, a foreign government.Under 18 U.S.C. § 951, it is generally illegal to act in the United States as an agent of a foreign government without providing notice to the Attorney General. Although the defendant must act on behalf of a foreign government (as opposed to other kinds of foreign entities), the acts need not involve espionage; rather, acts of any type suffice for liability. See United States v. Duran, 596 F.3d 1283, 1293-94 (11th Cir. 2010); United States v. Latchin, 554 F.3d 709, 715 (7th Cir. 2009); United States v. Dumeisi, 424 F.3d 566, 581 (7th Cir. 2005). An “agent of a foreign government” is an “individual” who “agrees to operate” in the United States “subject to the direction or control of a foreign government or official.” 18 U.S.C. § 951(d).Vol. 1, Page 181The crime defined by Section 951 is complete upon knowingly acting in the United States as an unregistered foreign-government agent. 18 U.S.C. § 951(a). The statute does not require willfulness, and knowledge of the notification requirement is not an element of the offense. United States v. Campa, 529 F.3d 980, 998-99 (11th Cir. 2008); Duran, 596 F.3d at 1291-94; Dumeisi, 424 F.3d at 581.The Foreign Agents Registration Act (FARA) generally makes it illegal to act as an agent of a foreign principal by engaging in certain (largely political) activities in the United States without registering with the Attorney General. 22 U.S.C. §§ 611-621. The triggering agency relationship must be with a foreign principal or “a person any of whose activities are directly or indirectly supervised, directed, controlled, financed, or subsidized in whole or in major part by a foreign principal.” 22 U.S.C. § 611(c)(1). That includes a foreign government or political party and various foreign individuals and entities. 22 U.S.C. § 611(b). A covered relationship exists if a person “acts as an agent, representative, employee, or servant” or “in any other capacity at the order, request, or under the [foreign principal’s] direction or control.” 22 U.S.C. § 611(c)(1). It is sufficient if the person “agrees, consents, assumes or purports to act as, or who is or holds himself out to be, whether or not pursuant to contractual relationship, an agent of a foreign principal.” 22 U.S.C. § 611(c)(2).The triggering activity is that the agent “directly or through any other person” in the United States (1) engages in “political activities for or in the interests of [the] foreign principal,” which includes attempts to influence federal officials or the public; (2) acts as “public relations counsel, publicity agent, information-service employee or political consultant for or in the interests of such foreign principal”; (3) “solicits, collects, disburses, or dispenses contributions, loans, money, or other things of value for or in the interest of such foreign principal”; or (4) “represents the interests of such foreign principal” before any federal agency or official. 22 U.S.C. § 611(c)(1).It is a crime to engage in a “[w]illful violation of any provision of the Act or any regulation thereunder.” 22 U.S.C. § 618(a)(1). It is also a crime willfully to make false statements or omissions of material facts in FARA registration statements or supplements. 22 U.S.C. § 618(a)(2). Most violations have a maximum penalty of five years of imprisonment and a $10,000 fine. 22 U.S.C. § 618.The investigation uncovered extensive evidence that Paul Manafort’s and Richard Gates’s pre-campaign work for the government of Ukraine violated FARA. Manafort and Gates were charged for that conduct and admitted to it when they pleaded guilty to superseding criminal informations in the District of Columbia prosecution.280 The evidence underlying those charges is not addressed in this report because it was discussed in public court documents and in a separate1280 Gates Superseding Criminal Information; Waiver of Indictment, United States v. Richard W. Gates III, 1:17-cr-201 (D.D.C. Feb. 23, 2018), Doc. 203; Waiver of Trial by Jury, United States v. Richard W. Gates III, 1:17-cr-201 (D.D.C. Feb. 23, 2018), Doc. 204; Gates Plea Agreement; Statement of Offense, United States v. Richard W. Gates III, 1:17-cr-201 (D.D.C. Feb. 23, 2018), Doc. 206; Plea Agreement, United States v. Paul J. Manafort, Jr., 1:17-cr-201 (D.D.C. Sept. 14, 2018), Doc. 422; Statement of Offense, United States v. Paul J. Manafort, Jr., 1:17-cr-201 (D.D.C. Sept. 14, 2018), Doc. 423.Vol. 1, Page 182prosecution memorandum submitted to the Acting Attorney General before the original indictment in that case.In addition, the investigation produced evidence of FARA violations involving Michael Flynn. Those potential violations, however, concerned a country other than Russia (i.e., Turkey) and were resolved when Flynn admitted to the underlying facts in the Statement of Offense that accompanied his guilty plea to a false-statements charge. Statement of Offense, United States v. Michael T. Flynn, No. 1:17-cr-232 (D.D.C. Dec. 1, 2017), Doc. 4 (“Flynn Statement of Offense”). 1281The investigation did not, however, yield evidence sufficient to sustain any charge that any individual affiliated with the Trump Campaign acted as an agent of a foreign principal within the meaning of FARA or, in terms of Section 951, subject to the direction or control of the government of Russia, or any official thereof. In particular, the Office did not find evidence likely to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that Campaign officials such as Paul Manafort, George Papadopoulos, and Carter Page acted as agents of the Russian government-or at its direction, control, or request — during the relevant time period. 1282 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ As a result, the Office did not charge ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ any other Trump Campaign official with violating FARA or Section 951, or attempting or conspiring to do so, based on contacts with the Russian government or a Russian principal.Finally, the Office investigated whether one of the above campaign advisors — George Papadopoulos — acted as an agent of, or at the direction and control of, the government of Israel. While the investigation revealed significant ties between Papadopoulos and Israel (and search warrants were obtained in part on that basis), the Office ultimately determined that the evidence was not sufficient to obtain and sustain a conviction under FARA or Section 951.Several areas of the Office’s investigation involved efforts or offers by foreign nationals to provide negative information about candidate Clinton to the Trump Campaign or to distribute that information to the public, to the anticipated benefit of the Campaign. As explained below, the Office considered whether two of those efforts in particular — the June 9, 2016 meeting at Trump1281 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1282 On four occasions, the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC) issued warrants based on a finding of probable cause to believe that Page was an agent of a foreign power. 50 U.S.C. §§ 1801(b), 1805(a)(2)(A). The FISC’s probable-cause finding was based on a different (and lower) standard than the one governing the Office’s decision whether to bring charges against Page, which is whether admissible evidence would likely be sufficient to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that Page acted as an agent of the Russian Federation during the period at issue. Cf. United States v. Cardoza, 713 F.3d 656, 660 (D.C. Cir. 2013) (explaining that probable cause requires only “a fair probability,” and not “certainty, or proof beyond a reasonable doubt, or proof by a preponderance of the evidence”).Vol. 1, Page 183Tower ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ constituted prosecutable violations of the campaign-finance laws. The Office determined that the evidence was not sufficient to charge either incident as a criminal violation.“[T]he United States has a compelling interest ... in limiting the participation of foreign citizens in activities of democratic self-government, and in thereby preventing foreign influence over the U.S. political process.” Bluman v. FEC, 800 F. Supp. 2d 281, 288 (D.D.C. 2011) (Kavanaugh, J., for three-judge court), aff’d, 565 U.S. 1104 (2012). To that end, federal campaign-finance law broadly prohibits foreign nationals from making contributions, donations, expenditures, or other disbursements in connection with federal, state, or local candidate elections, and prohibits anyone from soliciting, accepting, or receiving such contributions or donations. As relevant here, foreign nationals may not make — and no one may “solicit, accept, or receive” from them—"a contribution or donation of money or other thing of value” or “an express or implied promise to make a contribution or donation, in connection with a Federal, State, or local election.” 52 U.S.C. § 30121(a)(1)(A), (a)(2).1283 The term “contribution,” which is used throughout the campaign-finance law, “includes” “any gift, subscription, loan, advance, or deposit of money or anything of value made by any person for the purpose of influencing any election for Federal office.” 52 U.S.C. § 30101(8)(A)(i). It excludes, among other things, “the value of [volunteer] services.” 52 U.S.C. § 30101(8)(B)(i).Foreign nationals are also barred from making an expenditure, independent expenditure, or disbursement for an electioneering communication.” 52 U.S.C. § 30121(a)(1)(C). The term “expenditure” “includes” “any purchase, payment, distribution, loan, advance, deposit, or gift of money or anything of value, made by any person for the purpose of influencing any election for Federal office.” 52 U.S.C. § 30101(9)(A)(i). It excludes, among other things, news stories and non-partisan get-out-the-vote activities. 52 U.S.C. § 30101(9)(B)(i)-(ii). An “independent expenditure” is an expenditure “expressly advocating the election or defeat of a clearly identified candidate” and made independently of the campaign. 52 U.S.C. § 30101(17). An “electioneering communication” is a broadcast communication that “refers to a clearly identified candidate for Federal office” and is made within specified time periods and targeted at the relevant electorate. 52 U.S.C. § 30104(f)(3).The statute defines “foreign national” by reference to FARA and the Immigration and Nationality Act, with minor modification. 52 U.S.C. § 30121(b) (cross-referencing 22 U.S.C. § 611(b)(1)-(3) and 8 U.S.C. § 1101(a)(20), (22)). That definition yields five, sometimes-overlapping categories of foreign nationals, which include all of the individuals and entities relevant for present purposes — namely, foreign governments and political parties, individuals1283 Campaign-finance law also places financial limits on contributions, 52 U.S.C. § 30116(a), and prohibits contributions from corporations, banks, and labor unions, 52 U.S.C. § 30118(a); see Citizens United v. FEC, 558 U.S. 310, 320 (2010). Because the conduct that the Office investigated involved possible electoral activity by foreign nationals, the foreign-contributions ban is the most readily applicable provision. 184Vol. 1, Page 184outside of the U.S. who are not legal permanent residents, and certain non-U.S. entities located outside of the U.S.A “knowing[] and willful[]” violation involving an aggregate of $25,000 or more in a calendar year is a felony. 52 U.S.C. § 30109(d)(1)(A)(i); see Bluman, 800 F. Supp. 2d at 292 (noting that a willful violation will require some “proof of the defendant’s knowledge of the law”); United States v. Danielczyk, 917 F. Supp. 2d 573, 577 (E.D. Va. 2013) (applying willfulness standard drawn from Bryan v. United States, 524 U.S. 184, 191-92 (1998)); see also Wagner v. FEC, 793 F.3d 1, 19 n.23 (D.C. Cir. 2015) (en banc) (same). A “knowing[] and willful[]” violation involving an aggregate of $2,000 or more in a calendar year, but less than $25,000, is a misdemeanor. 52 U.S.C. § 30109(d)(1)(A)(ii).The Office considered whether to charge Trump Campaign officials with crimes in connection with the June 9 meeting described in Volume I, Section IV.A.5, supra. The Office concluded that, in light of the government’s substantial burden of proof on issues of intent (“knowing” and “willful"), and the difficulty of establishing the value of the offered information, criminal charges would not meet the Justice Manual standard that the admissible evidence will probably be sufficient to obtain and sustain a conviction.” Justice Manual § 9-27.220.In brief, the key facts are that, on June 3, 2016, Robert Goldstone emailed Donald Trump Jr., to pass along from Emin and Aras Agalarov an “offer” from Russia’s “Crown prosecutor” to “the Trump campaign” of “official documents and information that would incriminate Hillary and her dealings with Russia and would be very useful to [Trump Jr.’s] father.” The email described this as “very high level and sensitive information” that is “part of Russia and its government’s support to Mr. Trump-helped along by Aras and Emin.” Trump Jr. responded: “if it’s what you say I love it especially later in the summer.” Trump Jr. and Emin Agalarov had follow-up conversations and, within days, scheduled a meeting with Russian representatives that was attended by Trump Jr., Manafort, and Kushner. The communications setting up the meeting and the attendance by high-level Campaign representatives support an inference that the Campaign anticipated receiving derogatory documents and information from official Russian sources that could assist candidate Trump’s electoral prospects.This series of events could implicate the federal election-law ban on contributions and donations by foreign nationals, 52 U.S.C. § 30121(a)(1)(A). Specifically, Goldstone passed along an offer purportedly from a Russian government official to provide “official documents and information” to the Trump Campaign for the purposes of influencing the presidential election. Trump Jr. appears to have accepted that offer and to have arranged a meeting to receive those materials. Documentary evidence in the form of email chains supports the inference that Kushner and Manafort were aware of that purpose and attended the June 9 meeting anticipating the receipt of helpful information to the Campaign from Russian sources.The Office considered whether this evidence would establish a conspiracy to violate the foreign contributions ban, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 371; the solicitation of an illegal foreign-source contribution; or the acceptance or receipt of “an express or implied promise to make aVol. 1, Page 185[foreign-source] contribution,” both in violation of 52 U.S.C. § 30121(a)(1)(A), (a)(2). There are reasonable arguments that the offered information would constitute a “thing of value” within the meaning of these provisions, but the Office determined that the government would not be likely to obtain and sustain a conviction for two other reasons: first, the Office did not obtain admissible evidence likely to meet the government’s burden to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that these individuals acted “willfully,” i.e., with general knowledge of the illegality of their conduct; and, second, the government would likely encounter difficulty in proving beyond a reasonable doubt that the value of the promised information exceeded the threshold for a criminal violation, see 52 U.S.C. § 30109(d)(1)(A)(i).A threshold legal question is whether providing to a campaign “documents and information” of the type involved here would constitute a prohibited campaign contribution. The foreign contribution ban is not limited to contributions of money. It expressly prohibits “a contribution or donation of money or other thing of value.” 52 U.S.C. § 30121(a)(1)(A), (a)(2) (emphasis added). And the term “contribution” is defined throughout the campaign-finance laws to “include[]” “any gift, subscription, loan, advance, or deposit of money or anything of value.” 52 U.S.C. § 30101(8)(A)(i) (emphasis added).The phrases “thing of value” and “anything of value” are broad and inclusive enough to encompass at least some forms of valuable information. Throughout the United States Code, these phrases serve as “term[s] of art” that are construed “broad[ly].” United States v. Nilsen, 967 F.2d 539,542 (11th Cir. 1992) (per curiam) (“thing of value” includes “both tangibles and intangibles"); see also, e.g., 18 U.S.C. §§ 201(b)(1), 666(a)(2) (bribery statutes); id. § 641 (theft of government property). For example, the term “thing of value” encompasses law enforcement reports that would reveal the identity of informants, United States v. Girard, 601 F.2d 69, 71 (2d Cir. 1979); classified materials, United States v. Fowler, 932 F.2d 306, 310 (4th Cir. 1991); confidential information about a competitive bid, United States v. Matzkin, 14 F.3d 1014, 1020 (4th Cir. 1994); secret grand jury information, United States v. Jeter, 775 F.2d 670, 680 (6th Cir. 1985); and information about a witness’s whereabouts, United States v. Sheker, 618 F.2d 607, 609 (9th Cir. 1980) (per curiam). And in the public corruption context, “thing of value’ is defined broadly to include the value which the defendant subjectively attaches to the items received.” United States v. Renzi, 769 F.3d 731, 744 (9th Cir. 2014) (internal quotation marks omitted).Federal Election Commission (FEC) regulations recognize the value to a campaign of at least some forms of information, stating that the term “anything of value” includes “the provision of any goods or services without charge,” such as “membership lists” and “mailing lists.” 11 C.F.R. § 100.52(d)(1). The FEC has concluded that the phrase includes a state-by-state list of activists. See Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington v. FEC, 475 F.3d 337, 338 (D.C. Cir. 2007) (describing the FEC’s findings). Likewise, polling data provided to a campaign constitutes a “contribution.” FEC Advisory Opinion 1990-12 (Strub), 1990 WL 153454 (citing 11 C.F.R. § 106.4(b)). And in the specific context of the foreign-contributions ban, the FEC has concluded that “election materials used in previous Canadian campaigns,” including “flyers, advertisements, door hangers, tri-folds, signs, and other printed material,” constitute “anything ofVol. 1, Page 186value,” even though “the value of these materials may be nominal or difficult to ascertain.” FEC Advisory Opinion 2007-22 (Hurysz), 2007 WL 5172375, at *5.These authorities would support the view that candidate-related opposition research given to a campaign for the purpose of influencing an election could constitute a contribution to which the foreign-source ban could apply. A campaign can be assisted not only by the provision of funds, but also by the provision of derogatory information about an opponent. Political campaigns frequently conduct and pay for opposition research. A foreign entity that engaged in such research and provided resulting information to a campaign could exert a greater effect on an election, and a greater tendency to ingratiate the donor to the candidate, than a gift of money or tangible things of value. At the same time, no judicial decision has treated the voluntary provision of uncompensated opposition research or similar information as a thing of value that could amount to a contribution under campaign-finance law. Such an interpretation could have implications beyond the foreign-source ban, see 52 U.S.C. § 30116(a) (imposing monetary limits on campaign contributions), and raise First Amendment questions. Those questions could be especially difficult where the information consisted simply of the recounting of historically accurate facts. It is uncertain how courts would resolve those issues.Even assuming that the promised “documents and information that would incriminate Hillary” constitute a “thing of value” under campaign-finance law, the government would encounter other challenges in seeking to obtain and sustain a conviction. Most significantly, the government has not obtained admissible evidence that is likely to establish the scienter requirement beyond a reasonable doubt. To prove that a defendant acted “knowingly and willfully,” the government would have to show that the defendant had general knowledge that his conduct was unlawful. U.S. Department of Justice, Federal Prosecution of Election Offenses 123 (8th ed. Dec. 2017) (“Election Offenses"); see Bluman, 800 F. Supp. 2d at 292 (noting that a willful violation requires “proof of the defendant’s knowledge of the law"); Danielczyk, 917 F. Supp. 2d at 577 (“knowledge of general unlawfulness"). “This standard creates an elevated scienter element requiring, at the very least, that application of the law to the facts in question be fairly clear. When there is substantial doubt concerning whether the law applies to the facts of a particular matter, the offender is more likely to have an intent defense.” Election Offenses 123.On the facts here, the government would unlikely be able to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the June 9 meeting participants had general knowledge that their conduct was unlawful. The investigation has not developed evidence that the participants in the meeting were familiar with the foreign-contribution ban or the application of federal law to the relevant factual context. The government does not have strong evidence of surreptitious behavior or efforts at concealment at the time of the June 9 meeting. While the government has evidence of later efforts to prevent disclosure of the nature of the June 9 meeting that could circumstantially provide support for a showing of scienter, see Volume II, Section II.G, infra, that concealment occurred more than a year later, involved individuals who did not attend the June 9 meeting, and may reflect an intention to avoid political consequences rather than any prior knowledge of illegality. Additionally, in light of the unresolved legal questions about whether giving documents and information of the sort offered here constitutes a campaign contribution, Trump Jr. could mount a factual defense that heVol. 1, Page 187did not believe his response to the offer and the June 9 meeting itself violated the law. Given his less direct involvement in arranging the June 9 meeting, Kushner could likely mount a similar defense. And, while Manafort is experienced with political campaigns, the Office has not developed evidence showing that he had relevant knowledge of these legal issues.The Office would also encounter difficulty proving beyond a reasonable doubt that the value of the promised documents and information exceeds the $2,000 threshold for a criminal violation, as well as the $25,000 threshold for felony punishment. See 52 U.S.C. § 30109(d)(1). The type of evidence commonly used to establish the value of non-monetary contributions — such as pricing the contribution on a commercial market or determining the upstream acquisition cost or the cost of distribution — would likely be unavailable or ineffective in this factual setting, Although damaging opposition research is surely valuable to a campaign, it appears that the information ultimately delivered in the meeting was not valuable. And while value in a conspiracy may well be measured by what the participants expected to receive at the time of the agreement, see, e.g., United States v. Tombrello, 666 F.2d 485, 489 (11th Cir. 1982), Goldstone’s description of the offered material here was quite general. His suggestion of the information’s value — i.e., that it would “incriminate Hillary” and “would be very useful to [Trump Jr.’s] father" — was non-specific and may have been understood as being of uncertain worth or reliability, given Goldstone’s lack of direct access to the original source. The uncertainty over what would be delivered could be reflected in Trump Jr.’s response (“if it’s what you say I love it”) (emphasis added).Accordingly, taking into account the high burden to establish a culpable mental state in a campaign-finance prosecution and the difficulty in establishing the required valuation, the Office decided not to pursue criminal campaign-finance charges against Trump Jr. or other campaign officials for the events culminating in the June 9 meeting.■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Vol. 1, Page 188■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Vol. 1, Page 189As discussed, to establish a criminal campaign-finance violation, the government must prove that the defendant acted “knowingly and willfully.” 52 U.S.C. § 30109(d)(1)(A)(i). That standard requires proof that the defendant knew generally that his conduct was unlawful. Election Offenses 123. Given the uncertainties noted above, the “willfulness” requirement would pose a substantial barrier to prosecution.Finally, the First Amendment could pose constraints on a prosecution. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Vol. 1, Page 190■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■The Office determined that certain individuals associated with the Campaign lied to investigators about Campaign contacts with Russia and have taken other actions to interfere with the investigation. As explained below, the Office therefore charged some U.S. persons connected to the Campaign with false statements and obstruction offenses.False Statements. The principal federal statute criminalizing false statements to government investigators is 18 U.S.C. § 1001. As relevant here, under Section 1001(a)(2), it is a crime to knowingly and willfully “make[] any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation” “in any matter within the jurisdiction of the executive ... branch of the Government.” An FBI investigation is a matter within the Executive Branch’s jurisdiction. United States v. Rodgers, 466 U.S. 475, 479 (1984). The statute also applies to a subset of legislative branch actions — viz., administrative matters and “investigation[s] or review[s]” conducted by a congressional committee or subcommittee. 18 U.S.C. § 1001(C)(1) and (2); see United States v. Pickett, 353 F.3d 62, 66 (D.C. Cir. 2004).Whether the statement was made to law enforcement or congressional investigators, the government must prove beyond a reasonable doubt the same basic non-jurisdictional elements: the statement was false, fictitious, or fraudulent; the defendant knew both that it was false and that it was unlawful to make a false statement; and the false statement was material. See, e.g., United States v. Smith, 831 F.3d 1207, 1222 n.27 (9th Cir. 2017) (listing elements); see also Ninth Circuit Pattern Instruction 8.73 &amp; cmt. (explaining that the Section 1001 jury instruction was modified in light of the Department of Justice’s position that the phrase “knowingly and willfully” in the statute requires the defendant’s knowledge that his or her conduct was unlawful). In the D.C. Circuit, the government must prove that the statement was actually false; a statement that is misleading but “literally true” does not satisfy Section 1001(a)(2). See United States v. Milton, 8 F.3d 39, 45Vol. 1, Page 191(D.C. Cir. 1993); United States v. Dale, 991 F.2d 819, 832-33 &amp; n.22 (D.C. Cir. 1993). For that false statement to qualify as “material,” it must have a natural tendency to influence, or be capable of influencing, a discrete decision or any other function of the agency to which it is addressed. See United States v. Gaudin, 515 U.S. 506, 509 (1995); United States v. Moore, 612 F.3d 698, 701 (D.C. Cir. 2010).Perjury. Under the federal perjury statutes, it is a crime for a witness testifying under oath before a grand jury to knowingly make any false material declaration. See 18 U.S.C. § 1623. The government must prove four elements beyond a reasonable doubt to obtain a conviction under Section 1623(a): the defendant testified under oath before a federal grand jury; the defendant’s testimony was false in one or more respects; the false testimony concerned matters that were material to the grand jury investigation; and the false testimony was knowingly given. United States v. Bridges, 717 F.2d 1444, 1449 n.30 (D.C. Cir. 1983). The general perjury statute, 18 U.S.C. § 1621, also applies to grand jury testimony and has similar elements, except that it requires that the witness have acted willfully and that the government satisfy “strict common-law requirements for establishing falsity.” See Dunn v. United States, 442 U.S. 100, 106 &amp; n.6 (1979) (explaining “the two-witness rule” and the corroboration that it demands).Obstruction of Justice. Three basic elements are common to the obstruction statutes pertinent to this Office’s charging decisions: an obstructive act; some form of nexus between the obstructive act and an official proceeding; and criminal (i.e., corrupt) intent. A detailed discussion of those elements, and the law governing obstruction of justice more generally, is included in Volume II of the report.Investigators approached Papadopoulos for an interview based on his role as a foreign policy advisor to the Trump Campaign and his suggestion to a foreign government representative that Russia had indicated that it could assist the Campaign through the anonymous release of information damaging to candidate Clinton. On January 27, 2017, Papadopoulos agreed to be interviewed by FBI agents, who informed him that the interview was part of the investigation into potential Russian government interference in the 2016 presidential election. During the interview, Papadopoulos lied about the timing, extent, and nature of his communications with Joseph Mifsud, Olga Polonskaya, and Ivan Timofeev. With respect to timing, Papadopoulos acknowledged that he had met Mifsud and that Mifsud told him the Russians had “dirt” on Clinton in the form of thousands of emails.” But Papadopoulos stated multiple times that those communications occurred before he joined the Trump Campaign and that it was a “very strange coincidence” to be told of the “dirt” before he started working for the Campaign. This account was false. Papadopoulos met Mifsud for the first time on approximately March 14, 2016, after Papadopoulos had already learned he would be a foreign policy advisor for the Campaign. Mifsud showed interest in Papadopoulos only after learning of his role on the Campaign. And Mifsud told Papadopoulos about the Russians possessing “dirt” on candidate Clinton in late April 2016, more than a month after Papadopoulos had joined the Campaign andVol. 1, Page 192been publicly announced by candidate Trump. Statement of Offense 19 25-26, United States v. George Papadopoulos, No. 1:17-cr-182 (D.D.C. Oct. 5, 2017), Doc. 19 (“Papadopoulos Statement of Offense”).Papadopoulos also made false statements in an effort to minimize the extent and importance of his communications with Mifsud. For example, Papadopoulos stated that “[Mifsud]’s a nothing,” that he thought Mifsud was “just a guy talk[ing] up connections or something,” and that he believed Mifsud was “BS’ing to be completely honest with you.” In fact, however, Papadopoulos understood Mifsud to have substantial connections to high-level Russian government officials and that Mifsud spoke with some of those officials in Moscow before telling Papadopoulos about the “dirt.” Papadopoulos also engaged in extensive communications over a period of months with Mifsud about foreign policy issues for the Campaign, including efforts to arrange a “history making” meeting between the Campaign and Russian government officials. In addition, Papadopoulos failed to inform investigators that Mifsud had introduced him to Timofeev, the Russian national who Papadopoulos understood to be connected to the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, despite being asked if he had met with Russian nationals or “[a]nyone with a Russian accent” during the campaign. Papadopoulos Statement of Offense ¶¶ 27-29.Papadopoulos also falsely claimed that he met Polonskaya before he joined the Campaign, and falsely told the FBI that he had “no” relationship at all with her. He stated that the extent of their communications was her sending emails—“Just, ‘Hi, how are you?’ That’s it.” In truth, however, Papadopoulos met Polonskaya on March 24, 2016, after he had joined the Campaign; he believed that she had connections to high-level Russian government officials and could help him arrange a potential foreign policy trip to Russia. During the campaign he emailed and spoke with her over Skype on numerous occasions about the potential foreign policy trip to Russia. Papadopoulos Statement of Offense ¶¶ 30-31.Papadopoulos’s false statements in January 2017 impeded the FBI’s investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election. Most immediately, those statements hindered investigators’ ability to effectively question Mifsud when he was interviewed in the lobby of a Washington, D.C. hotel on February 10, 2017. See Gov’t Sent. Mem. at 6, United States v. George Papadopoulos, No. 1:17-cr-182 (D.D.C. Aug. 18, 2017), Doc. 44. During that interview, Mifsud admitted to knowing Papadopoulos and to having introduced him to Polonskaya and Timofeev. But Mifsud denied that he had advance knowledge that Russia was in possession of emails damaging to candidate Clinton, stating that he and Papadopoulos had discussed cybersecurity and hacking as a larger issue and that Papadopoulos must have misunderstood their conversation. Mifsud also falsely stated that he had not seen Papadopoulos since the meeting at which Mifsud introduced him to Polonskaya, even though emails, text messages, and other information show that Mifsud met with Papadopoulos on at least two other occasions — April 12 and April 26, 2016. In addition, Mifsud omitted that he had drafted (or edited) the follow-up message that Polonskaya sent to Papadopoulos following the initial meeting and that, as reflected in the language of that email chain (“Baby, thank you!"), Mifsud may have been involved in a personal relationship with Polonskaya at the time. The false information and omissions in Papadopoulos’s January 2017 interview undermined investigators’ ability to challenge Mifsud when he made these inaccurate statements.Vol. 1, Page 193Given the seriousness of the lies and omissions and their effect on the FBI’s investigation, the Office charged Papadopoulos with making false statements to the FBI, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1001. Information, United States v. George Papadopoulos, No. 1:17-cr-182 (D.D.C. Oct. 3, 2017), Doc. 8. On October 7, 2017, Papadopoulos pleaded guilty to that charge pursuant to a plea agreement. On September 7, 2018, he was sentenced to 14 days of imprisonment, a $9,500 fine, and 200 hours of community service.■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Michael Flynn agreed to be interviewed by the FBI on January 24, 2017, four days after he had officially assumed his duties as National Security Advisor to the President. During the interview, Flynn made several false statements pertaining to his communications with the Russian ambassador.First, Flynn made two false statements about his conversations with Russian Ambassador Kislyak in late December 2016, at a time when the United States had imposed sanctions on Russia for interfering with the 2016 presidential election and Russia was considering its response. See Flynn Statement of Offense. Flynn told the agents that he did not ask Kislyak to refrain from escalating the situation in response to the United States’s imposition of sanctions. That statement was false. On December 29, 2016, Flynn called Kislyak to request Russian restraint. Flynn made the call immediately after speaking to a senior Transition Team official (K.T. McFarland) about what to communicate to Kislyak. Flynn then spoke with McFarland again after the Kislyak call to report on the substance of that conversation. Flynn also falsely told the FBI that he did not remember a follow-up conversation in which Kislyak stated that Russia had chosen to moderate its response to the U.S. sanctions as a result of Flynn’s request. On December 31, 2016, Flynn in fact had such a conversation with Kislyak, and he again spoke with McFarland within hours of the call to relay the substance of his conversation with Kislyak. See Flynn Statement of Offense ¶3.Vol. 1, Page 194Second, Flynn made false statements about calls he had previously made to representatives of Russia and other countries regarding a resolution submitted by Egypt to the United Nations Security Council on December 21, 2016. Specifically, Flynn stated that he only asked the countries’ positions on how they would vote on the resolution and that he did not request that any of the countries take any particular action on the resolution. That statement was false. On December 22, 2016, Flynn called Kislyak, informed him of the incoming Trump Administration’s opposition to the resolution, and requested that Russia vote against or delay the resolution. Flynn also falsely stated that Kislyak never described Russia’s response to his December 22 request regarding the resolution. Kislyak in fact told Flynn in a conversation on December 23, 2016, that Russia would not vote against the resolution if it came to a vote. See Flynn Statement of Offense ¶4.Flynn made these false statements to the FBI at a time when he was serving as National Security Advisor and when the FBI had an open investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election, including the nature of any links between the Trump Campaign and Russia. Flynn’s false statements and omissions impeded and otherwise had a material impact on that ongoing investigation. Flynn Statement of Offense 11 1-2. They also came shortly before Flynn made separate submissions to the Department of Justice, pursuant to FARA, that also contained materially false statements and omissions. Id. 5. Based on the totality of that conduct, the Office decided to charge Flynn with making false statements to the FBI, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1001(a). On December 1, 2017, and pursuant to a plea agreement, Flynn pleaded guilty to that charge and also admitted his false statements to the Department in his FARA filing. See id.; Plea Agreement, United States v. Michael T. Flynn, No. 1:17-cr-232 (D.D.C. Dec. 1, 2017), Doc. 3. Flynn is awaiting sentencing.Michael Cohen was the executive vice president and special counsel to the Trump Organization when Trump was president of the Trump Organization. Information ¶1, United States v. Cohen, No. 1:18-cr-850 (S.D.N.Y. Nov. 29, 2018), Doc. 2 ("Cohen Information"). From the fall of 2015 through approximately June 2016, Cohen was involved in a project to build a Trump-branded tower and adjoining development in Moscow. The project was known as Trump Tower Moscow.In 2017, Cohen was called to testify before the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence (HPSCI) and the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence (SSCI), both of which were investigating Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election and possible links between Russia and the presidential campaigns. In late August 2017, in advance of his testimony, Cohen caused a two-page statement to be sent to SSCI and HPSCI addressing Trump Tower Moscow. Cohen Information ¶¶ 2-3. The letter contained three representations relevant here. First, Cohen stated that the Trump Moscow project had ended in January 2016 and that he had briefed candidate Trump on the project only three times before making the unilateral decision to terminate it. Second, Cohen represented that he never agreed to travel to Russia in connection with the project and never considered asking Trump to travel for the project. Third, Cohen stated that he did not recall any Russian government contact about the project, including any response to an email thatVol. 1, Page 195he had sent to a Russian government email account. Cohen Information ¶4. Cohen later asked that his two-page statement be incorporated into his testimony’s transcript before SSCI, and he ultimately gave testimony to SSCI that was consistent with that statement. Cohen Information ¶5.Each of the foregoing representations in Cohen’s two-page statement was false and misleading. Consideration of the project had extended through approximately June 2016 and included more than three progress reports from Cohen to Trump. Cohen had discussed with Felix Sater his own travel to Russia as part of the project, and he had inquired about the possibility of Trump traveling there — both with the candidate himself and with senior campaign official Corey Lewandowski. Cohen did recall that he had received a response to the email that he sent to Russian government spokesman Dmitry Peskov — in particular, that he received an email reply and had a follow-up phone conversation with an English-speaking assistant to Peskov in mid-January 2016. Cohen Information ¶7. Cohen knew the statements in the letter to be false at the time, and admitted that he made them in an effort (1) to minimize the links between the project and Trump (who by this time was President), and (2) to give the false impression that the project had ended before the first vote in the Republican Party primary process, in the hopes of limiting the ongoing Russia investigations. Id.Given the nature of the false statements and the fact that he repeated them during his initial interview with the Office, we charged Cohen with violating Section 1001. On November 29, 2018, Cohen pleaded guilty pursuant to a plea agreement to a single-count information charging him with making false statements in a matter within the jurisdiction of the legislative branch, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1001(a)(2) and (c). Cohen Information. The case was transferred to the district judge presiding over the separate prosecution of Cohen pursued by the Southern District of New York (after a referral from our Office). On December 7, 2018, this Office submitted a letter to that judge recommending that Cohen’s cooperation with our investigation be taken into account in sentencing Cohen on both the false-statements charge and the offenses in the Southern District prosecution. On December 12, 2018, the judge sentenced Cohen to two months of imprisonment on the false-statements count, to run concurrently with a 36-month sentence imposed on the other counts.■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Vol. 1, Page 196■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■As set forth in Volume I, Section IV.A.6, supra, the investigation established that, while a U.S. Senator and a Trump Campaign advisor, former Attorney General Jeff Sessions interacted with Russian Ambassador Kislyak during the week of the Republican National Convention in July 2016 and again at a meeting in Sessions’s Senate office in September 2016. The investigation also established that Sessions and Kislyak both attended a reception held before candidate Trump’sVol. 1, Page 197foreign policy speech at the Mayflower Hotel in Washington, D.C., in April 2016, and that it is possible that they met briefly at that reception.The Office considered whether, in light of these interactions, Sessions committed perjury before, or made false statements to, Congress in connection with his confirmation as Attorney General. In January 2017 testimony during his confirmation hearing, Sessions stated in response to a question about Trump Campaign communications with the Russian government that he had “been called a surrogate at a time or two in that campaign and I didn’t have — did not have communications with the Russians.” In written responses submitted on January 17, 2017, Sessions answered “[n]o” to a question asking whether he had “been in contact with anyone connected to any part of the Russian government about the 2016 election, either before or after election day.” And, in a March 2017 supplement to his testimony, Sessions identified two of the campaign-period contacts with Ambassador Kislyak noted above, which had been reported in the media following the January 2017 confirmation hearing. Sessions stated in the supplemental response that he did “not recall any discussions with the Russian Ambassador, or any other representatives of the Russian government, regarding the political campaign on these occasions or any other occasion.”Although the investigation established that Sessions interacted with Kislyak on the occasions described above and that Kislyak mentioned the presidential campaign on at least one occasion, the evidence is not sufficient to prove that Sessions gave knowingly false answers to Russia-related questions in light of the wording and context of those questions. With respect to Sessions’s statements that he did not recall any discussions with the Russian Ambassador ... regarding the political campaign” and he had not been in contact with any Russian official “about the 2016 election,” the evidence concerning the nature of Sessions’s interactions with Kislyak makes it plausible that Sessions did not recall discussing the campaign with Kislyak at the time of his statements. Similarly, while Sessions stated in his January 2017 oral testimony that he “did not have communications with Russians,” he did so in response to a question that had linked such communications to an alleged “continuing exchange of information” between the Trump Campaign and Russian government intermediaries. Sessions later explained to the Senate and to the Office that he understood the question as narrowly calling for disclosure of interactions with Russians that involved the exchange of campaign information, as distinguished from more routine contacts with Russian nationals. Given the context in which the question was asked, that understanding is plausible.Accordingly, the Office concluded that the evidence was insufficient to prove that Sessions was willfully untruthful in his answers and thus insufficient to obtain or sustain a conviction for perjury or false statements. Consistent with the Principles of Federal Prosecution, the Office therefore determined not to pursue charges against Sessions and informed his counsel of that decision in March 2018.The Office considered whether, during the course of the investigation, other individuals interviewed either omitted material information or provided information determined to be false. Applying the Principles of Federal Prosecution, the Office did not seek criminal charges against any individuals other than those listed above. In some instances, that decision was due toVol. 1, Page 198evidentiary hurdles to proving falsity. In others, the Office determined that the witness ultimately provided truthful information and that considerations of culpability, deterrence, and resource-preservation weighed against prosecution. See Justice Manual §§ 9-27.220, 9-27.230. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Vol. 1, Page 199Special Counsel Robert S. Mueller, IIISubmitted Pursuant to 28 C.F.R. § 600.8(c)Washington, D.C.March 2019Volume 2: Obstruction InquiryINTRODUCTION TO VOLUME IIEXECUTIVE SUMMARY TO VOLUME III. BACKGROUND LEGAL AND EVIDENTIARY PRINCIPLESA. Legal Framework of Obstruction of JusticeB. Investigative and Evidentiary ConsiderationsII. FACTUAL RESULTS OF THE OBSTRUCTION INVESTIGATIONA. The Campaign’s Response to Reports About Russian Support for Trump1. Press Reports Allege Links Between the Trump Campaign and Russia2. The Trump Campaign Reacts to WikiLeaks’s Release of Hacked Emails3. The Trump Campaign Reacts to Allegations That Russia was Seeking to Aid Candidate Trump4. After the Election, Trump Continues to Deny Any Contacts or Connections with Russia or That Russia Aided his ElectionB. The President’s Conduct Concerning the Investigation of Michael Flynn1. Incoming National Security Advisor Flynn Discusses Sanctions on Russia with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak2. President-Elect Trump is Briefed on the Intelligence Community’s Assessment of Russian Interference in the Election and Congress Opens Election-Interference Investigations3. Flynn Makes False Statements About his Communications with Kislyak to Incoming Administration Officials, the Media, and the FBI4. DOJ Officials Notify the White House of Their Concerns About Flynn5. McGahn has a Follow-Up Meeting About Flynn with Yates; President Trump has Dinner with FBI Director Comey6. Flynn’s Resignation7. The President Discusses Flynn with FBI Director Comey8. The Media Raises Questions About the President’s Delay in Terminating Flynn9. The President Attempts to Have K.T. McFarland Create a Witness Statement Denying that he Directed Flynn’s Discussions with KislyakC. The President’s Reaction to Public Confirmation of the FBI’s Russia Investigation1. Attorney General Sessions Recuses From the Russia InvestigationVol. 2, Table of Contents2. FBI Director Comey Publicly Confirms the Existence of the Russia Investigation in Testimony Before HPSCI3. The President Asks Intelligence Community Leaders to Make Public Statements that he had No Connection to Russia4. The President Asks Comey to “Lift the Cloud” Created by the Russia InvestigationD. Events Leading Up To and Surrounding the Termination of FBI Director Comey1. Comey Testifies Before the Senate Judiciary Committee and Declines to Answer Questions About Whether the President is Under Investigation2. The President Makes the Decision to Terminate ComeyE. The President’s Efforts to Remove the Special Counsel1. The Appointment of the Special Counsel and the President’s Reaction2. The President Asserts that the Special Counsel has Conflicts of Interest3. The Press Reports that the President is Being Investigated for Obstruction of Justice and the President Directs the White House Counsel to Have the Special Counsel RemovedF. The President’s Efforts to Curtail the Special Counsel Investigation1. The President Asks Corey Lewandowski to Deliver a Message to Sessions to Curtail the Special Counsel Investigation2. The President Follows Up with Lewandowski3. The President Publicly Criticizes Sessions in a New York Times Interview4. The President Orders Priebus to Demand Sessions’s ResignationG. The President’s Efforts to Prevent Disclosure of Emails About the June 9, 2016 Meeting Between Russians and Senior Campaign Officials1. The President Learns About the Existence of Emails Concerning the June 9, 2016 Trump Tower Meeting2. The President Directs Communications Staff Not to Publicly Disclose Information About the June 9 Meeting3. The President Directs Trump Jr.’s Response to Press Inquiries About the June 9 Meeting4. The Media Reports on the June 9, 2016 MeetingH. The President’s Further Efforts to Have the Attorney General Take Over the Investigation1. The President Again Seeks to Have Sessions Reverse his Recusal2. Additional Efforts to Have Sessions Unrecuse or Direct Investigations Covered by his RecusalVol. 2, Table of ContentsI. The President Orders McGahn to Deny that the President Tried to Fire the Special Counsel1. The Press Reports that the President Tried to Fire the Special Counsel2. The President Seeks to Have McGahn Dispute the Press ReportsJ. The President’s Conduct Towards Flynn, Manafort, ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1. Conduct Directed at Michael Flynn2. Conduct Directed at Paul Manafort3. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■K. The President’s Conduct Involving Michael Cohen1. Candidate Trump’s Awareness of and Involvement in the Trump Tower Moscow Project2. Cohen Determines to Adhere to a “Party Line” Distancing Candidate Trump From Russia3. Cohen Submits False Statements to Congress Minimizing the Trump Tower Moscow Project in Accordance with the Party Line4. The President Sends Messages of Support to Cohen5. The President’s Conduct After Cohen Began Cooperating with the GovernmentL. Overarching Factual IssuesIII. LEGAL DEFENSES TO THE APPLICATION OF OBSTRUCTION-OF-JUSTICE STATUTES TO THE PRESIDENTA. Statutory Defenses to the Application of Obstruction-Of-Justice Provisions to the Conduct Under Investigation1. The Text of Section 1512(c)(2) Prohibits a Broad Range of Obstructive2. Judicial Decisions Support a Broad Reading of Section 1512(c)(2)3. The Legislative History of Section 1512(c)(2) Does Not Justify Narrowing Its Text4. General Principles of Statutory Construction Do Not Suggest That Section 1512(c)(2) is Inapplicable to the Conduct in this Investigation5. Other Obstruction Statutes Might Apply to the Conduct in this InvestigationB. Constitutional Defenses to Applying Obstruction-Of-Justice Statutes to Presidential Conduct1. The Requirement of a Clear Statement to Apply Statutes to Presidential Conduct Does Not Limit the Obstruction StatutesVol. 2, Table of Contents2. Separation-of-Powers Principles Support the Conclusion that Congress May Validly Prohibit Corrupt Obstructive Acts Carried Out Through the President’s Official Powersa. The Supreme Court’s Separation-of-Powers Balancing Test Applies In This Contextb. The Effect of Obstruction-of-Justice Statutes on the President’s Capacity to Perform His Article II Responsibilities is Limitedc. Congress Has Power to Protect Congressional, Grand Jury, and Judicial Proceedings Against Corrupt Acts from Any Source3. Ascertaining Whether the President Violated the Obstruction Statutes Would Not Chill his Performance of his Article II DutiesIV. CONCLUSIONVol. 2, Table of ContentsThis report is submitted to the Attorney General pursuant to 28 C.F.R. § 600.8(c), which states that, “[a]t the conclusion of the Special Counsel’s work, he ... shall provide the Attorney General a confidential report explaining the prosecution or declination decisions [the Special Counsel] reached.”Beginning in 2017, the President of the United States took a variety of actions towards the ongoing FBI investigation into Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election and related matters that raised questions about whether he had obstructed justice. The Order appointing the Special Counsel gave this Office jurisdiction to investigate matters that arose directly from the FBI’s Russia investigation, including whether the President had obstructed justice in connection with Russia-related investigations. The Special Counsel’s jurisdiction also covered potentially obstructive acts related to the Special Counsel’s investigation itself. This Volume of our report summarizes our obstruction-of-justice investigation of the President.We first describe the considerations that guided our obstruction-of-justice investigation, and then provide an overview of this Volume:First, a traditional prosecution or declination decision entails a binary determination to initiate or decline a prosecution, but we determined not to make a traditional prosecutorial judgment. The Office of Legal Counsel (OLC) has issued an opinion finding that “the indictment or criminal prosecution of a sitting President would impermissibly undermine the capacity of the executive branch to perform its constitutionally assigned functions” in violation of the constitutional separation of powers.” Given the role of the Special Counsel as an attorney in the Department of Justice and the framework of the Special Counsel regulations, see 28 U.S.C. § 515; 28 C.F.R. § 600.7(a), this Office accepted OLC’s legal conclusion for the purpose of exercising prosecutorial jurisdiction. And apart from OLC’s constitutional view, we recognized that a federal criminal accusation against a sitting President would place burdens on the President’s capacity to govern and potentially preempt constitutional processes for addressing presidential misconduct. 2Second, while the OLC opinion concludes that a sitting President may not be prosecuted, it recognizes that a criminal investigation during the President’s term is permissible. The OLC opinion also recognizes that a President does not have immunity after he leaves office. And if individuals other than the President committed an obstruction offense, they may be prosecuted at this time. Given those considerations, the facts known to us, and the strong public interest in1 A Sitting President’s Amenability to Indictment and Criminal Prosecution, 24 Op. O.L.C. 222, 222, 260 (2000) (OLC Op.).2 See U.S. CONST. Art. I § 2, cl. 5; § 3, cl. 6; cf. OLC Op. at 257-258 (discussing relationship between impeachment and criminal prosecution of a sitting President).3 OLC Op. at 257 n.36 (“A grand jury could continue to gather evidence throughout the period of immunity’).4 OLC Op. at 255 ("Recognizing an immunity from prosecution for a sitting President would not preclude such prosecution once the President’s term is over or he is otherwise removed from office by resignation or impeachment”).Vol. 2, Page 1safeguarding the integrity of the criminal justice system, we conducted a thorough factual investigation in order to preserve the evidence when memories were fresh and documentary materials were available.Third, we considered whether to evaluate the conduct we investigated under the Justice Manual standards governing prosecution and declination decisions, but we determined not to apply an approach that could potentially result in a judgment that the President committed crimes. The threshold step under the Justice Manual standards is to assess whether a person’s conduct “constitutes a federal offense.” U.S. Dep’t of Justice, Justice Manual § 9-27.220 (2018) (Justice Manual). Fairness concerns counseled against potentially reaching that judgment when no charges can be brought. The ordinary means for an individual to respond to an accusation is through a speedy and public trial, with all the procedural protections that surround a criminal case. An individual who believes he was wrongly accused can use that process to seek to clear his name. In contrast, a prosecutor’s judgment that crimes were committed, but that no charges will be brought, affords no such adversarial opportunity for public name-clearing before an impartial adjudicator. 5The concerns about the fairness of such a determination would be heightened in the case of a sitting President, where a federal prosecutor’s accusation of a crime, even in an internal report, could carry consequences that extend beyond the realm of criminal justice. OLC noted similar concerns about sealed indictments. Even if an indictment were sealed during the President’s term, OLC reasoned, “it would be very difficult to preserve [an indictment’s] secrecy,” and if an indictment became public, “[t]he stigma and opprobrium” could imperil the President’s ability to govern.” 6 Although a prosecutor’s internal report would not represent a formal public accusation akin to an indictment, the possibility of the report’s public disclosure and the absence of a neutral adjudicatory forum to review its findings counseled against potentially determining that the person’s conduct constitutes a federal offense.” Justice Manual &amp; 9-27.220.Fourth, if we had confidence after a thorough investigation of the facts that the President clearly did not commit obstruction of justice, we would so state. Based on the facts and the applicable legal standards, however, we are unable to reach that judgment. The evidence we obtained about the President’s actions and intent presents difficult issues that prevent us from conclusively determining that no criminal conduct occurred. Accordingly, while this report does not conclude that the President committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him.***This report on our investigation consists of four parts. Section I provides an overview of obstruction-of-justice principles and summarizes certain investigatory and evidentiary considerations. Section II sets forth the factual results of our obstruction investigation and analyzes the evidence. Section III addresses statutory and constitutional defenses. Section IV states our conclusion.5 For that reason, criticisms have been lodged against the practice of naming unindicted co-conspirators in an indictment. See United States v. Briggs, 514 F.2d 794, 802 (5th Cir. 1975) ("The courts have struck down with strong language efforts by grand juries to accuse persons of crime while affording them no forum in which to vindicate themselves."); see also Justice Manual &amp; 9-11.130.6 OLC Op. at 259 &amp; n.38 (citation omitted).Vol. 2, Page 2Our obstruction-of-justice inquiry focused on a series of actions by the President that related to the Russian-interference investigations, including the President’s conduct towards the law enforcement officials overseeing the investigations and the witnesses to relevant events.The key issues and events we examined include the following:The Campaign’s response to reports about Russian support for Trump. During the 2016 presidential campaign, questions arose about the Russian government’s apparent support for candidate Trump. After WikiLeaks released politically damaging Democratic Party emails that were reported to have been hacked by Russia, Trump publicly expressed skepticism that Russia was responsible for the hacks at the same time that he and other Campaign officials privately sought information ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ about any further planned WikiLeaks releases. Trump also denied having any business in or connections to Russia, even though as late as June 2016 the Trump Organization had been pursuing a licensing deal for a skyscraper to be built in Russia called Trump Tower Moscow. After the election, the President expressed concerns to advisors that reports of Russia’s election interference might lead the public to question the legitimacy of his election.Conduct involving FBI Director Comey and Michael Flynn. In mid-January 2017, incoming National Security Advisor Michael Flynn falsely denied to the Vice President, other administration officials, and FBI agents that he had talked to Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak about Russia’s response to U.S. sanctions on Russia for its election interference. On January 27, the day after the President was told that Flynn had lied to the Vice President and had made similar statements to the FBI, the President invited FBI Director Comey to a private dinner at the White House and told Comey that he needed loyalty. On February 14, the day after the President requested Flynn’s resignation, the President told an outside advisor, “Now that we fired Flynn, the Russia thing is over.” The advisor disagreed and said the investigations would continue.Later that afternoon, the President cleared the Oval Office to have a one-on-one meeting with Comey. Referring to the FBI’s investigation of Flynn, the President said, “I hope you can see your way clear to letting this go, to letting Flynn go. He is a good guy. I hope you can let this go.” Shortly after requesting Flynn’s resignation and speaking privately to Comey, the President sought to have Deputy National Security Advisor K.T. McFarland draft an internal letter stating that the President had not directed Flynn to discuss sanctions with Kislyak. McFarland declined because she did not know whether that was true, and a White House Counsel’s Office attorney thought that the request would look like a quid pro quo for an ambassadorship she had been offered. 1The President’s reaction to the continuing Russia investigation. In February 2017, Attorney General Jeff Sessions began to assess whether he had to recuse himself from campaign-related investigations because of his role in the Trump Campaign. In early March, the President told White House Counsel Donald McGahn to stop Sessions from recusing. And after Sessions announced his recusal on March 2, the President expressed anger at the decision and told advisors that he should have an Attorney General who would protect him. That weekend, the President took Sessions aside at an event and urged him to “unrecuse.” Later in March, Comey publiclyVol. 2, Page 3disclosed at a congressional hearing that the FBI was investigating the Russian government’s efforts to interfere in the 2016 presidential election,” including any links or coordination between the Russian government and the Trump Campaign. In the following days, the President reached out to the Director of National Intelligence and the leaders of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) and the National Security Agency (NSA) to ask them what they could do to publicly dispel the suggestion that the President had any connection to the Russian election-interference effort. The President also twice called Comey directly, notwithstanding guidance from McGahn to avoid direct contacts with the Department of Justice. Comey had previously assured the President that the FBI was not investigating him personally, and the President asked Comey to “lift the cloud” of the Russia investigation by saying that publicly.The President’s termination of Comey. On May 3, 2017, Comey testified in a congressional hearing, but declined to answer questions about whether the President was personally under investigation. Within days, the President decided to terminate Comey. The President insisted that the termination letter, which was written for public release, state that Comey had informed the President that he was not under investigation. The day of the firing, the White House maintained that Comey’s termination resulted from independent recommendations from the Attorney General and Deputy Attorney General that Comey should be discharged for mishandling the Hillary Clinton email investigation. But the President had decided to fire Comey before hearing from the Department of Justice. The day after firing Comey, the President told Russian officials that he had “faced great pressure because of Russia,” which had been “taken off” by Comey’s firing. The next day, the President acknowledged in a television interview that he was going to fire Comey regardless of the Department of Justice’s recommendation and that when he “decided to just do it,” he was thinking that “this thing with Trump and Russia is a made-up story.” In response to a question about whether he was angry with Comey about the Russia investigation, the President said, “As far as I’m concerned, I want that thing to be absolutely done properly,” adding that firing Comey “might even lengthen out the investigation.”The appointment of a Special Counsel and efforts to remove him. On May 17, 2017, the Acting Attorney General for the Russia investigation appointed a Special Counsel to conduct the investigation and related matters. The President reacted to news that a Special Counsel had been appointed by telling advisors that it was the end of his presidency” and demanding that Sessions resign. Sessions submitted his resignation, but the President ultimately did not accept it. The President told aides that the Special Counsel had conflicts of interest and suggested that the Special Counsel therefore could not serve. The President’s advisors told him the asserted conflicts were meritless and had already been considered by the Department of Justice.1On June 14, 2017, the media reported that the Special Counsel’s Office was investigating whether the President had obstructed justice. Press reports called this “a major turning point” in the investigation: while Comey had told the President he was not under investigation, following Comey’s firing, the President now was under investigation. The President reacted to this news with a series of tweets criticizing the Department of Justice and the Special Counsel’s investigation. On June 17, 2017, the President called McGahn at home and directed him to call the Acting Attorney General and say that the Special Counsel had conflicts of interest and must be removed. McGahn did not carry out the direction, however, deciding that he would resign rather than trigger what he regarded as a potential Saturday Night Massacre2.Vol. 2, Page 4Efforts to curtail the Special Counsel’s investigation. Two days after directing McGahn to have the Special Counsel removed, the President made another attempt to affect the course of the Russia investigation. On June 19, 2017, the President met one-on-one in the Oval Office with his former campaign manager Corey Lewandowski, a trusted advisor outside the government, and dictated a message for Lewandowski to deliver to Sessions. The message said that Sessions should publicly announce that, notwithstanding his recusal from the Russia investigation, the investigation was “very unfair” to the President, the President had done nothing wrong, and Sessions planned to meet with the Special Counsel and “let [him] move forward with investigating election meddling for future elections.” Lewandowski said he understood what the President wanted Sessions to do.One month later, in another private meeting with Lewandowski on July 19, 2017, the President asked about the status of his message for Sessions to limit the Special Counsel investigation to future election interference. Lewandowski told the President that the message would be delivered soon. Hours after that meeting, the President publicly criticized Sessions in an interview with the New York Times, and then issued a series of tweets making it clear that Sessions’s job was in jeopardy. Lewandowski did not want to deliver the President’s message personally, so he asked senior White House official Rick Dearborn to deliver it to Sessions. Dearborn was uncomfortable with the task and did not follow through.Efforts to prevent public disclosure of evidence. In the summer of 2017, the President learned that media outlets were asking questions about the June 9, 2016 meeting at Trump Tower between senior campaign officials, including Donald Trump Jr., and a Russian lawyer who was said to be offering damaging information about Hillary Clinton as “part of Russia and its government’s support for Mr. Trump.” On several occasions, the President directed aides not to publicly disclose the emails setting up the June 9 meeting, suggesting that the emails would not leak and that the number of lawyers with access to them should be limited. Before the emails became public, the President edited a press statement for Trump Jr. by deleting a line that acknowledged that the meeting was with “an individual who [Trump Jr.] was told might have information helpful to the campaign” and instead said only that the meeting was about adoptions of Russian children. When the press asked questions about the President’s involvement in Trump Jr.’s statement, the President’s personal lawyer repeatedly denied the President had played any role.1Further efforts to have the Attorney General take control of the investigation. In early summer 2017, the President called Sessions at home and again asked him to reverse his recusal from the Russia investigation.2 Sessions did not reverse his recusal. In October 2017, the President met privately with Sessions in the Oval Office and asked him to “take [a] look” at investigating Clinton. In December 2017, shortly after Flynn pleaded guilty pursuant to a cooperation agreement, the President met with Sessions in the Oval Office and suggested, according to notes taken by a senior advisor, that if Sessions unrecused and took back supervision of the Russia investigation, he would be a “hero.” The President told Sessions, “I’m not going to do anything or direct you to do anything. I just want to be treated fairly.” In response, Sessions volunteered that he had never seen anything “improper” on the campaign and told the President there was a “whole new leadership team” in place. He did not unrecuse.Efforts to have McGahn deny that the President had ordered him to have the Special Counsel removed. In early 2018, the press reported that the President had directed McGahn toVol. 2, Page 5have the Special Counsel removed in June 2017 and that McGahn had threatened to resign rather than carry out the order. The President reacted to the news stories by directing White House officials to tell McGahn to dispute the story and create a record stating he had not been ordered to have the Special Counsel removed.1 McGahn told those officials that the media reports were accurate in stating that the President had directed McGahn to have the Special Counsel removed. The President then met with McGahn in the Oval Office and again pressured him to deny the reports. In the same meeting, the President also asked McGahn why he had told the Special Counsel about the President’s effort to remove the Special Counsel and why McGahn took notes of his conversations with the President. McGahn refused to back away from what he remembered happening and perceived the President to be testing his mettle.Conduct towards Flynn, Manafort, ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ After Flynn withdrew from a joint defense agreement with the President and began cooperating with the government, the President’s personal counsel left a message for Flynn’s attorneys reminding them of the President’s warm feelings towards Flynn, which he said “still remains,” and asking for a “heads up” if Flynn knew “information that implicates the President.” When Flynn’s counsel reiterated that Flynn could no longer share information pursuant to a joint defense agreement, the President’s personal counsel said he would make sure that the President knew that Flynn’s actions reflected “hostility” towards the President.2 During Manafort’s prosecution and when the jury in his criminal trial was deliberating, the President praised Manafort in public, said that Manafort was being treated unfairly, and declined to rule out a pardon. After Manafort was convicted, the President called Manafort “a brave man” for refusing to “break” and said that “flipping” “almost ought to be outlawed.” ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Conduct involving Michael Cohen. The President’s conduct towards Michael Cohen, a former Trump Organization executive, changed from praise for Cohen when he falsely minimized the President’s involvement in the Trump Tower Moscow project, to castigation of Cohen when he became a cooperating witness. From September 2015 to June 2016, Cohen had pursued the Trump Tower Moscow project on behalf of the Trump Organization and had briefed candidate Trump on the project numerous times, including discussing whether Trump should travel to Russia to advance the deal. In 2017, Cohen provided false testimony to Congress about the project, including stating that he had only briefed Trump on the project three times and never discussed travel to Russia with him, in an effort to adhere to a “party line” that Cohen said was developed to minimize the President’s connections to Russia. While preparing for his congressional testimony, Cohen had extensive discussions with the President’s personal counsel, who, according to Cohen, said that Cohen should stay on message” and not contradict the President. After the FBI searched Cohen’s home and office in April 2018, the President publicly asserted that Cohen would not “flip,” contacted him directly to tell him to stay strong,” and privately passed messages of support to him. Cohen also discussed pardons with the President’s personal counsel and believed that if he stayed on message he would be taken care of. But after Cohen began cooperating with the government in the summer of 2018, the President publicly criticized him, called him a “rat,” and suggested that his family members had committed crimes.Vol. 2, Page 6Overarching factual issues. We did not make a traditional prosecution decision about these facts, but the evidence we obtained supports several general statements about the President’s conduct.Several features of the conduct we investigated distinguish it from typical obstruction-of-justice cases. First, the investigation concerned the President, and some of his actions, such as firing the FBI director, involved facially lawful acts within his Article II authority, which raises constitutional issues discussed below. At the same time, the President’s position as the head of the Executive Branch provided him with unique and powerful means of influencing official proceedings, subordinate officers, and potential witnesses — all of which is relevant to a potential obstruction-of-justice analysis.1 Second, unlike cases in which a subject engages in obstruction of justice to cover up a crime, the evidence we obtained did not establish that the President was involved in an underlying crime related to Russian election interference. Although the obstruction statutes do not require proof of such a crime, the absence of that evidence affects the analysis of the President’s intent and requires consideration of other possible motives for his conduct. Third, many of the President’s acts directed at witnesses, including discouragement of cooperation with the government and suggestions of possible future pardons, took place in public view. That circumstance is unusual, but no principle of law excludes public acts from the reach of the obstruction laws. If the likely effect of public acts is to influence witnesses or alter their testimony, the harm to the justice system’s integrity is the same.Although the series of events we investigated involved discrete acts, the overall pattern of the President’s conduct towards the investigations can shed light on the nature of the President’s acts and the inferences that can be drawn about his intent. In particular, the actions we investigated can be divided into two phases, reflecting a possible shift in the President’s motives. The first phase covered the period from the President’s first interactions with Comey through the President’s firing of Comey. During that time, the President had been repeatedly told he was not personally under investigation. Soon after the firing of Comey and the appointment of the Special Counsel, however, the President became aware that his own conduct was being investigated in an obstruction-of-justice inquiry. At that point, the President engaged in a second phase of conduct, involving public attacks on the investigation, non-public efforts to control it, and efforts in both public and private to encourage witnesses not to cooperate with the investigation. Judgments about the nature of the President’s motives during each phase would be informed by the totality of the evidence.The President’s counsel raised statutory and constitutional defenses to a possible obstruction-of-justice analysis of the conduct we investigated. We concluded that none of those legal defenses provided a basis for declining to investigate the facts.Statutory defenses. Consistent with precedent and the Department of Justice’s general approach to interpreting obstruction statutes, we concluded that several statutes could apply here. See 18 U.S.C. §§ 1503, 1505, 1512(b)(3), 1512(c)(2). Section 1512(c)(2) is an omnibus obstruction-of-justice provision that covers a range of obstructive acts directed at pending or contemplated official proceedings. No principle of statutory construction justifies narrowing the provision to cover only conduct that impairs the integrity or availability of evidence. Sections 1503 and 1505 also offer broad protection against obstructive acts directed at pending grand jury,Vol. 2, Page 7judicial, administrative, and congressional proceedings, and they are supplemented by a provision in Section 1512(b) aimed specifically at conduct intended to prevent or hinder the communication to law enforcement of information related to a federal crime.Constitutional defenses. As for constitutional defenses arising from the President’s status as the head of the Executive Branch, we recognized that the Department of Justice and the courts have not definitively resolved these issues. We therefore examined those issues through the framework established by Supreme Court precedent governing separation-of-powers issues. The Department of Justice and the President’s personal counsel have recognized that the President is subject to statutes that prohibit obstruction of justice by bribing a witness or suborning perjury because that conduct does not implicate his constitutional authority. With respect to whether the President can be found to have obstructed justice by exercising his powers under Article II of the Constitution, we concluded that Congress has authority to prohibit a President’s corrupt use of his authority in order to protect the integrity of the administration of justice.Under applicable Supreme Court precedent, the Constitution does not categorically and permanently immunize a President for obstructing justice through the use of his Article II powers. The separation-of-powers doctrine authorizes Congress to protect official proceedings, including those of courts and grand juries, from corrupt, obstructive acts regardless of their source. We also concluded that any inroad on presidential authority that would occur from prohibiting corrupt acts does not undermine the President’s ability to fulfill his constitutional mission. The term “corruptly” sets a demanding standard. It requires a concrete showing that a person acted with an intent to obtain an improper advantage for himself or someone else, inconsistent with official duty and the rights of others. A preclusion of “corrupt” official action does not diminish the President’s ability to exercise Article II powers. For example, the proper supervision of criminal law does not demand freedom for the President to act with a corrupt intention of shielding himself from criminal punishment, avoiding financial liability, or preventing personal embarrassment. To the contrary, a statute that prohibits official action undertaken for such corrupt purposes furthers, rather than hinders, the impartial and evenhanded administration of the law. It also aligns with the President’s constitutional duty to faithfully execute the laws. Finally, we concluded that in the rare case in which a criminal investigation of the President’s conduct is justified, inquiries to determine whether the President acted for a corrupt motive should not impermissibly chill his performance of his constitutionally assigned duties. The conclusion that Congress may apply the obstruction laws to the President’s corrupt exercise of the powers of office accords with our constitutional system of checks and balances and the principle that no person is above the law.Because we determined not to make a traditional prosecutorial judgment, we did not draw ultimate conclusions about the President’s conduct. The evidence we obtained about the President’s actions and intent presents difficult issues that would need to be resolved if we were making a traditional prosecutorial judgment. At the same time, if we had confidence after a thorough investigation of the facts that the President clearly did not commit obstruction of justice, we would so state. Based on the facts and the applicable legal standards, we are unable to reach that judgment. Accordingly, while this report does not conclude that the President committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him.Vol. 2, Page 8The May 17, 2017 Appointment Order and the Special Counsel regulations provide this Office with jurisdiction to investigate “federal crimes committed in the course of, and with intent to interfere with, the Special Counsel’s investigation, such as perjury, obstruction of justice, destruction of evidence, and intimidation of witnesses.” 28 C.F.R. § 600.4(a). Because of that description of our jurisdiction, we sought evidence for our obstruction-of-justice investigation with the elements of obstruction offenses in mind. Our evidentiary analysis is similarly focused on the elements of such offenses, although we do not draw conclusions on the ultimate questions that govern a prosecutorial decision under the Principles of Federal Prosecution. See Justice Manual § 9-27.000 et seq. (2018).Here, we summarize the law interpreting the elements of potentially relevant obstruction statutes in an ordinary case. This discussion does not address the unique constitutional issues that arise in an inquiry into official acts by the President. Those issues are discussed in a later section of this report addressing constitutional defenses that the President’s counsel have raised. See Volume II, Section III.B, infra.Three basic elements are common to most of the relevant obstruction statutes: (1) an obstructive act; (2) a nexus between the obstructive act and an official proceeding; and (3) a corrupt intent. See, e.g., 18 U.S.C. §§ 1503, 1505, 1512(c)(2). We describe those elements as they have been interpreted by the courts. We then discuss a more specific statute aimed at witness tampering, see 18 U.S.C. § 1512(b), and describe the requirements for attempted offenses and endeavors to obstruct justice, see 18 U.S.C. §§ 1503, 1512(c)(2).Obstructive act. Obstruction-of-justice law “reaches all corrupt conduct capable of producing an effect that prevents justice from being duly administered, regardless of the means employed.” United States v. Silverman, 745 F.2d 1386, 1393 (11th Cir. 1984) (interpreting 18 U.S.C. § 1503). An “effort to influence” a proceeding can qualify as an endeavor to obstruct justice even if the effort was “subtle or circuitous” and “however cleverly or with whatever cloaking of purpose” it was made. United States v. Roe, 529 F.2d 629, 632 (4th Cir. 1975); see also United States v. Quattrone, 441 F.3d 153, 173 (2d Cir. 2006). The verbs “obstruct or impede’ are broad” and “can refer to anything that blocks, makes difficult, or hinders.” Marinello v. United States, 138 S. Ct. 1101, 1106 (2018) (internal brackets and quotation marks omitted).An improper motive can render an actor’s conduct criminal even when the conduct would otherwise be lawful and within the actor’s authority. See United States v. Cueto, 151 F.3d 620, 631 (7th Cir. 1998) (affirming obstruction conviction of a criminal defense attorney for “litigation-related conduct’); United States v. Cintolo, 818 F.2d 980, 992 (1st Cir. 1987) ("any act by any party — whether lawful or unlawful on its face — may abridge S 1503 if performed with a corrupt motive").Nexus to a pending or contemplated official proceeding. Obstruction-of-justice law generally requires a nexus, or connection, to an official proceeding. In Section 1503, the nexus must be to pending “judicial or grand jury proceedings.” United States v. Aguilar, 515 U.S. 593,Vol. 2, Page 9599 (1995). In Section 1505, the nexus can include a connection to a “pending” federal agency proceeding or a congressional inquiry or investigation. Under both statutes, the government must demonstrate “a relationship in time, causation, or logic” between the obstructive act and the proceeding or inquiry to be obstructed. Id. at 599, see also Arthur Andersen LLP v. United States, 544 U.S. 696, 707-708 (2005). Section 1512(c) prohibits obstructive efforts aimed at official proceedings including judicial or grand jury proceedings. 18 U.S.C. § 1515(a)(1)(A). “For purposes of” Section 1512, “an official proceeding need not be pending or about to be instituted at the time of the offense.” 18 U.S.C. § 1512(1)(1). Although a proceeding need not already be in progress to trigger liability under Section 1512(c), a nexus to a contemplated proceeding still must be shown. United States v. Young, 916 F.3d 368, 386 (4th Cir. 2019); United States v. Petruk, 781 F.3d 438, 445 (8th Cir. 2015); United States v. Phillips, 583 F.3d 1261, 1264 (10th Cir. 2009); United States v. Reich, 479 F.3d 179, 186 (2d Cir. 2007). The nexus requirement narrows the scope of obstruction statutes to ensure that individuals have “fair warning” of what the law proscribes. Aguilar, 515 U.S. at 600 (internal quotation marks omitted).The nexus showing has subjective and objective components. As an objective matter, a defendant must act in a manner that is likely to obstruct justice,” such that the statute “excludes defendants who have an evil purpose but use means that would only unnaturally and improbably be successful.” Aguilar, 515 U.S. at 601-602 (emphasis added; internal quotation marks omitted). “[T]he endeavor must have the natural and probable effect of interfering with the due administration of justice.” Id. at 599 (citation and internal quotation marks omitted). As a subjective matter, the actor must have “contemplated a particular, foreseeable proceeding.” Petruk, 781 F.3d at 445-446. A defendant need not directly impede the proceeding. Rather, a nexus exists if “discretionary actions of a third person would be required to obstruct the judicial proceeding if it was foreseeable to the defendant that the third party would act on the [defendant’s] communication in such a way as to obstruct the judicial proceeding.” United States v. Martinez, 862 F.3d 223, 238 (2d Cir. 2017) (brackets, ellipses, and internal quotation marks omitted).Corruptly. The word “corruptly” provides the intent element for obstruction of justice and means acting “knowingly and dishonestly” or “with an improper motive.” United States v. Richardson, 676 F.3d 491, 508 (5th Cir. 2012); United States v. Gordon, 710 F.3d 1124, 1151 (10th Cir. 2013) (to act corruptly means to “act[] with an improper purpose and to engage in conduct knowingly and dishonestly with the specific intent to subvert, impede or obstruct” the relevant proceeding) (some quotation marks omitted); see 18 U.S.C. § 1515(b) (“As used in section 1505, the term ‘corruptly’ means acting with an improper purpose, personally or by influencing another.”); see also Arthur Andersen, 544 U.S. at 705-706 (interpreting “corruptly” to mean “wrongful, immoral, depraved, or evil” and holding that acting “knowingly ... corruptly” in 18 U.S.C. § 1512(b) requires “consciousness of wrongdoing”). The requisite showing is made when a person acted with an intent to obtain an “improper advantage for [him]self or someone else, inconsistent with official duty and the rights of others.” BALLENTINE’S LAW DICTIONARY 276 (3d ed. 1969); see United States v. Pasha, 797 F.3d 1122, 1132 (D.C. Cir. 2015); Aguilar, 515 U.S. at 616 (Scalia, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part) (characterizing this definition as the “longstanding and well-accepted meaning” of “corruptly”).Witness tampering. A more specific provision in Section 1512 prohibits tampering with a witness. See 18 U.S.C. § 1512(b)(1), (3) (making it a crime to “knowingly use[] intimidation or corruptly persuade[] another person,” or “engage[] in misleading conduct towards anotherVol. 2, Page 10person,” with the intent to “influence, delay, or prevent the testimony of any person in an official proceeding” or to “hinder, delay, or prevent the communication to a law enforcement officer .. of information relating to the commission or possible commission of a Federal offense”). To establish corrupt persuasion, it is sufficient that the defendant asked a potential witness to lie to investigators in contemplation of a likely federal investigation into his conduct. United States v. Edlind, 887 F.3d 166, 174 (4th Cir. 2018); United States v. Sparks, 791 F.3d 1188, 1191–1192 (10th Cir. 2015); United States v. Byrne, 435 F.3d 16, 23–26 (1st Cir. 2006); United States v. LaShay, 417 F.3d 715, 718–719 (7th Cir. 2005); United States v. Burns, 298 F.3d 523, 539–540 (6th Cir. 2002); United States v. Pennington, 168 F.3d 1060, 1066 (8th Cir. 1999). The “persuasion” need not be coercive, intimidating, or explicit; it is sufficient to “urge,” “induce,” “ask[],” “argu[e],” “giv[e] reasons,” Sparks, 791 F.3d at 1192, or “coach[] or remind[] witnesses by planting misleading facts,” Edlind, 887 F.3d at 174. Corrupt persuasion is shown “where a defendant tells a potential witness a false story as if the story were true, intending that the witness believe the story and testify to it.” United States v. Rodolitz, 786 F.2d 77, 82 (2d Cir. 1986); see United States v. Gabriel, 125 F.3d 89, 102 (2d Cir. 1997). It also covers urging a witness to recall a fact that the witness did not know, even if the fact was actually true. See LaShay, 417 F.3d at 719. Corrupt persuasion also can be shown in certain circumstances when a person, with an improper motive, urges a witness not to cooperate with law enforcement. See United States v. Shotts, 145 F.3d 1289, 1301 (11th Cr. 1998) (telling Secretary “not to [say] anything [to the FBI] and [she] would not be bothered”).When the charge is acting with the intent to hinder, delay, or prevent the communication of information to law enforcement under Section 1512(b)(3), the “nexus” to a proceeding inquiry articulated in Aguilar — that an individual have “knowledge that his actions are likely to affect the judicial proceeding,” 515 U.S. at 599 — does not apply because the obstructive act is aimed at the communication of information to investigators, not at impeding an official proceeding.Acting “knowingly ... corruptly” requires proof that the individual was “conscious of wrongdoing.” Arthur Andersen, 544 U.S. at 705–706 (declining to explore “[t]he outer limits of this element” but indicating that an instruction was infirm where it permitted conviction even if the defendant “honestly and sincerely believed that [the] conduct was lawful”). It is an affirmative defense that “the conduct consisted solely of lawful conduct and that the defendant’s sole intention was to encourage, induce, or cause the other person to testify truthfully.” 18 U.S.C. § 1512(e).Attempts and endeavors. Section 1512(c)(2) covers both substantive obstruction offenses and attempts to obstruct justice. Under general principles of attempt law, a person is guilty of an attempt when he has the intent to commit a substantive offense and takes an overt act that constitutes a substantial step towards that goal. See United States v. Resendiz-Ponce, 549 U.S. 102, 106-107 (2007). “[T]he act [must be] substantial, in that it was strongly corroborative of the defendant’s criminal purpose.” United States v. Pratt, 351 F.3d 131, 135 (4th Cir. 2003). While “mere abstract talk” does not suffice, any “concrete and specific” acts that corroborate the defendant’s intent can constitute a “substantial step.” United States v. Irving, 665 F.3d 1184, 1198–1205 (10th Cir. 2011). Thus, “soliciting an innocent agent to engage in conduct constituting an element of the crime” may qualify as a substantial step. Model Penal Code § 5.01(2)(g); see United States v. Lucas, 499 F.3d 769, 781 (8th Cir. 2007).Vol. 2, Page 11The omnibus clause of 18 U.S.C. § 1503 prohibits an “endeavor” to obstruct justice, which sweeps more broadly than Section 1512’s attempt provision. See United States v. Sampson, 898 F.3d 287, 302 (2d Cir. 2018); United States v. Leisure, 844 F.2d 1347, 1366-1367 (8th Cir. 1988) (collecting cases). “It is well established that a[n] [obstruction-of-justice] offense is complete when one corruptly endeavors to obstruct or impede the due administration of justice; the prosecution need not prove that the due administration of justice was actually obstructed or impeded.” United States v. Davis, 854 F.3d 1276, 1292 (11th Cir. 2017) (internal quotation marks omitted).After the appointment of the Special Counsel, this Office obtained evidence about the following events relating to potential issues of obstruction of justice involving the President:(a) The President’s January 27, 2017 dinner with former FBI Director James Comey in which the President reportedly asked for Comey’s loyalty, one day after the White House had been briefed by the Department of Justice on contacts between former National Security Advisor Michael Flynn and the Russian Ambassador;(b) The President’s February 14, 2017 meeting with Comey in which the President reportedly asked Comey not to pursue an investigation of Flynn;(c) The President’s private requests to Comey to make public the fact that the President was not the subject of an FBI investigation and to lift what the President regarded as a cloud;(d) The President’s outreach to the Director of National Intelligence and the Directors of the National Security Agency and the Central Intelligence Agency about the FBI’s Russia investigation;(e) The President’s stated rationales for terminating Comey on May 9, 2017, including statements that could reasonably be understood as acknowledging that the FBI’s Russia investigation was a factor in Comey’s termination; and(f) The President’s reported involvement in issuing a statement about the June 9, 2016 Trump Tower meeting between Russians and senior Trump Campaign officials that said the meeting was about adoption and omitted that the Russians had offered to provide the Trump Campaign with derogatory information about Hillary Clinton.Taking into account that information and our analysis of applicable statutory and constitutional principles (discussed below in Volume II, Section III, infra), we determined that there was a sufficient factual and legal basis to further investigate potential obstruction-of-justice issues involving the President.Many of the core issues in an obstruction-of-justice investigation turn on an individual’s actions and intent. We therefore requested that the White House provide us with documentary evidence in its possession on the relevant events. We also sought and obtained the White House’s concurrence in our conducting interviews of White House personnel who had relevant information. And we interviewed other witnesses who had pertinent knowledge, obtained documents on aVol. 2, Page 12voluntary basis when possible, and used legal process where appropriate. These investigative steps allowed us to gather a substantial amount of evidence.We also sought a voluntary interview with the President. After more than a year of discussion, the President declined to be interviewed. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ During the course of our discussions, the President did agree to answer written questions on certain Russia-related topics, and he provided us with answers. He did not similarly agree to provide written answers to questions on obstruction topics or questions on events during the transition. Ultimately, while we believed that we had the authority and legal justification to issue a grand jury subpoena to obtain the President’s testimony, we chose not to do so. We made that decision in view of the substantial delay that such an investigative step would likely produce at a late stage in our investigation. We also assessed that based on the significant body of evidence we had already obtained of the President’s actions and his public and private statements describing or explaining those actions, we had sufficient evidence to understand relevant events and to make certain assessments without the President’s testimony.1 The Office’s decision-making process on this issue is described in more detail in Appendix C, infra, in a note that precedes the President’s written responses.In assessing the evidence we obtained, we relied on common principles that apply in any investigation. The issue of criminal intent is often inferred from circumstantial evidence. See, e.g., United States v. Croteau, 819 F.3d 1293, 1305 (11th Cir. 2016) (“[G]uilty knowledge can rarely be established by direct evidence. ... Therefore, mens rea elements such as knowledge or intent may be proved by circumstantial evidence.”) (internal quotation marks omitted); United States v. Robinson, 702 F.3d 22, 36 (2d Cir. 2012) (“The government’s case rested on circumstantial evidence, but the mens rea elements of knowledge and intent can often be proved through circumstantial evidence and the reasonable inferences drawn therefrom.”) (internal quotation marks omitted). The principle that intent can be inferred from circumstantial evidence is a necessity in criminal cases, given the right of a subject to assert his privilege against compelled self-incrimination under the Fifth Amendment and therefore decline to testify. Accordingly, determinations on intent are frequently reached without the opportunity to interview an investigatory subject.Obstruction-of-justice cases are consistent with this rule. See, e.g., Edlind, 887 F.3d at 174, 176 (relying on “significant circumstantial evidence that [the defendant] was conscious of her wrongdoing” in an obstruction case; “[b]ecause evidence of intent will almost always be circumstantial, a defendant may be found culpable where the reasonable and foreseeable consequences of her acts are the obstruction of justice”) (internal quotation marks, ellipses, and punctuation omitted); Quattrone, 441 F.3d at 173-174. Circumstantial evidence that illuminates intent may include a pattern of potentially obstructive acts. Fed. R. Evid. 404(b) (“Evidence of a crime, wrong, or other act ... may be admissible ... [to] prov[e] motive, opportunity, intent, preparation, plan, knowledge, identity, absence of mistake, or lack of accident.”); see, e.g., United States v. Frankhauser, 80 F.3d 641, 648-650 (1st Cir. 1996); United States v. Arnold, 773 F.2d 823, 832-834 (7th Cir. 1985); Cintolo, 818 F.2d at 1000.Credibility judgments may also be made based on objective facts and circumstantial evidence. Standard jury instructions highlight a variety of factors that are often relevant inVol. 2, Page 13assessing credibility. These include whether a witness had a reason not to tell the truth; whether the witness had a good memory; whether the witness had the opportunity to observe the events about which he testified; whether the witness’s testimony was corroborated by other witnesses; and whether anything the witness said or wrote previously contradicts his testimony. See, e.g., First Circuit Pattern Jury Instructions § 1.06 (2018); Fifth Circuit Pattern Jury Instructions (Criminal Cases) $ 1.08 (2012); Seventh Circuit Pattern Jury Instruction 8 3.01 (2012).In addition to those general factors, we took into account more specific factors in assessing the credibility of conflicting accounts of the facts. For example, contemporaneous written notes can provide strong corroborating evidence. See United States v. Nobles, 422 U.S. 225, 232 (1975) (the fact that a “statement appeared in the contemporaneously recorded report ... would tend strongly to corroborate the investigator’s version of the interview’). Similarly, a witness’s recitation of his account before he had any motive to fabricate also supports the witness’s credibility. See Tome v. United States, 513 U.S. 150, 158 (1995) (“A consistent statement that predates the motive is a square rebuttal of the charge that the testimony was contrived as a consequence of that motive.”). Finally, a witness’s false description of an encounter can imply consciousness of wrongdoing. See Al-Adahi v. Obama, 613 F.3d 1102, 1107 (D.C. Cir. 2010) (noting the “well-settled principle that false exculpatory statements are evidence—often strong evidence of guilt”). We applied those settled legal principles in evaluating the factual results of our investigation.Vol. 2, Page 14This section of the report details the evidence we obtained. We first provide an overview of how Russia became an issue in the 2016 presidential campaign, and how candidate Trump responded. We then turn to the key events that we investigated: the President’s conduct concerning the FBI investigation of Michael Flynn; the President’s reaction to public confirmation of the FBI’s Russia investigation; events leading up to and surrounding the termination of FBI Director Comey; efforts to terminate the Special Counsel; efforts to curtail the scope of the Special Counsel’s investigation; efforts to prevent disclosure of information about the June 9, 2016 Trump Tower meeting between Russians and senior campaign officials; efforts to have the Attorney General unrecuse; and conduct towards McGahn, Cohen, and other witnesses.We summarize the evidence we found and then analyze it by reference to the three statutory obstruction-of-justice elements: obstructive act, nexus to a proceeding, and intent. We focus on elements because, by regulation, the Special Counsel has jurisdiction ... to investigate ... federal crimes committed in the course of, and with intent to interfere with, the Special Counsel’s investigation, such as perjury, obstruction of justice, destruction of evidence, and intimidation of witnesses.” 28 C.F.R. $ 600.4(a). Consistent with our jurisdiction to investigate federal obstruction crimes, we gathered evidence that is relevant to the elements of those crimes and analyzed them within an elements framework—while refraining from reaching ultimate conclusions about whether crimes were committed, for the reasons explained above. This section also does not address legal and constitutional defenses raised by counsel for the President; those defenses are analyzed in Volume II, Section III, infra.During the 2016 campaign, the media raised questions about a possible connection between the Trump Campaign and Russia7. The questions intensified after WikiLeaks released politically damaging Democratic Party emails that were reported to have been hacked by Russia. Trump responded to questions about possible connections to Russia by denying any business involvement in Russia—even though the Trump Organization had pursued a business project in Russia as late as June 2016. Trump also expressed skepticism that Russia had hacked the emails at the same time as he and other Campaign advisors privately sought information ■■■■■■■■■ about any further planned WikiLeaks releases. After the election, when questions persisted about possible links between Russia and the Trump Campaign, the President-Elect continued to deny any connections to Russia and privately expressed concerns that reports of Russian election interference might lead the public to question the legitimacy of his election8.7 This section summarizes and cites various news stories not for the truth of the information contained in the stories, but rather to place candidate Trump’s response to those stories in context. Volume I of this report analyzes the underlying facts of several relevant events that were reported on by the media during the campaign.8 As discussed in Volume I, while the investigation identified numerous links between individuals with ties to the Russian government and individuals associated with the Trump Campaign, the evidence was not sufficient to charge that any member of the Trump Campaign conspired or coordinated with representatives of the Russian government to interfere in the 2016 election.Vol. 2, Page 15On June 16, 2015, Donald J. Trump declared his intent to seek nomination as the Republican candidate for President9. By early 2016, he distinguished himself among Republican candidates by speaking of closer ties with Russia10, saying he would get along well with Russian President Vladimir Putin11, questioning whether the NATO alliance was obsolete12, and praising Putin as a “strong leader."13 The press reported that Russian political analysts and commentators perceived Trump as favorable to Russia.14Beginning in February 2016 and continuing through the summer, the media reported that several Trump campaign advisors appeared to have ties to Russia. For example, the press reported that campaign advisor Michael Flynn was seated next to Vladimir Putin at an RT gala in Moscow in December 2015 and that Flynn had appeared regularly on RT as an analyst.15 The press also reported that foreign policy advisor Carter Page had ties to a Russian state-run gas company16, and that campaign chairman Paul Manafort had done work for the “Russian-backed former Ukrainian president Viktor Yanukovych."17 In addition, the press raised questions during the Republican9 @realDonaldTrump 6/16/15 (11:57 a.m. ET) Tweet.10 See, e.g., Meet the Press Interview with Donald J. Trump, NBC (Dec. 20, 2015) (Trump: “I think it would be a positive thing if Russia and the United States actually got along”); Presidential Candidate Donald Trump News Conference, Hanahan, South Carolina, C-SPAN (Feb. 15, 2016) (“You want to make a good deal for the country, you want to deal with Russia.”).11 See, e.g., Anderson Cooper 360 Degrees, CNN (July 8, 2015) (“I think I get along with [Putin] fine.”); Andrew Rafferty, Trump Says He Would “Get Along Very Well” With Putin, NBC (July 30, 2015) (quoting Trump as saying, “I think I would get along very well with Vladimir Putin.”).12 See, e.g., @realDonald Trump Tweet 3/24/16 (7:47 a.m. ET); @realDonaldTrump Tweet 3/24/16 (7:59 a.m. ET).13 See, e.g., Meet the Press Interview with Donald J. Trump, NBC (Dec. 20, 2015) (“[Putin) is a strong leader. What am I gonna say, he’s a weak leader? He’s making mincemeat out of our President.”); Donald Trump Campaign Rally in Vandalia, Ohio, C-SPAN (Mar. 12, 2016) (“I said [Putin] was a strong leader, which he is. I mean, he might be bad, he might be good. But he’s a strong leader.”).14 See, e.g., Andrew Osborn, From Russia with love: why the Kremlin backs Trump, Reuters (Mar. 24, 2016); Robert Zubrin, Trump: The Kremlin’s Candidate, National Review (Apr. 4, 2016).15 See, e.g., Mark Hosenball &amp; Steve Holland, Trump being advised by ex-U.S. Lieutenant General who favors closer Russia ties, Reuters (Feb. 26, 2016); Tom Hamburger et al., Inside Trump’s financial ties to Russia and his unusual flattery of Vladimir Putin, Washington Post (June 17, 2016). Certain matters pertaining to Flynn are described in Volume I, Section IV.B.7, supra.16 See, e.g., Zachary Mider, Trump’s New Russia Advisor Has Deep Ties to Kremlin’s Gazprom, Bloomberg (Mar. 30, 2016); Julia Iofee, Who is Carter Page?, Politico (Sep. 23, 2016). Certain matters pertaining to Page are described in Volume I, Section IV.A.3, supra.17 Tracy Wilkinson, In a shift, Republican platform doesn’t call for arming Ukraine against Russia, spurring outrage, Los Angeles Times (July 21, 2016); Josh Rogin, Trump campaign guts GOP’s anti- Russia stance on Ukraine, Washington Post (July 18, 2016).Vol. 2, Page 16National Convention about the Trump Campaign’s involvement in changing the Republican platform’s stance on giving “weapons to Ukraine to fight Russian and rebel forces.” 18On June 14, 2016, a cybersecurity firm that had conducted in-house analysis for the Democratic National Committee (DNC) posted an announcement that Russian government hackers had infiltrated the DNC’s computer and obtained access to documents. 19On July 22, 2016, the day before the Democratic National Convention, WikiLeaks posted thousands of hacked DNC documents revealing sensitive internal deliberations. 20 Soon thereafter, Hillary Clinton’s campaign manager publicly contended that Russia had hacked the DNC emails and arranged their release in order to help candidate Trump. 21 On July 26, 2016, the New York Times reported that U.S. “intelligence agencies ha[d] told the White House they now have ’high confidence that the Russian government was behind the theft of emails and documents from the Democratic National Committee.” 22Within the Trump Campaign, aides reacted with enthusiasm to reports of the hacks. 22 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ discussed with Campaign officials that WikiLeaks would release the hacked material. 24 Some witnesses said that Trump himself discussed the possibility of upcoming releases ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■. Michael Cohen, then-executive vice president of the Trump Organization and special counsel to Trump, recalled hearing ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ 25 Cohen recalled that Trump responded, “oh good, alright,"18 Josh Rogin, Trump campaign guts GOP’s anti-Russia stance on Ukraine, Washington Post, Opinions (July 18, 2016). The Republican Platform events are described in Volume I, Section IV.A.6, supra.19 Bears in the Midst: Intrusion into the Democratic National Committee, CrowdStrike (June 15, 2016) (post originally appearing on June 14, 2016, according to records of the timing provided by CrowdStrike); Ellen Nakashima, Russian government hackers penetrated DNC, stole opposition research on Trump, Washington Post (June 14, 2016).20 Tom Hamburger and Karen Tumulty, WikiLeaks releases thousands of documents about Clinton and internal deliberations, Washington Post (July 22, 2016).21 Amber Phillips, Clinton campaign manager: Russians leaked Democrats’emails to help Donald Trump, Washington Post (July 24, 2016).22 David E. Sanger and Eric Schmitt, Spy Agency Consensus Grows That Russia Hacked D.N.C., New York Times (July 26, 2016).23 Gates 4/10/18 302, at 5; Newman 8/23/18 302, at 1.24 Gates 4/11/18 302, at 2-3 (SM-2180998); Gates 10/25/18 302, at 2; see also Volume 1, Section III.D.1, supra.25 Cohen 8/7/18 302, at 8; see also Volume I, Section III.D.1, supra. According to Cohen, after WikiLeaks’s subsequent release of stolen DNC emails on July 22, 2016, Trump said to Cohen words to the effect of, HOM Cohen 9/18/18 302, at 10. Cohen’s role in the candidate’s and later 17Vol. 2, Page 17and ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■26 Manafort said that shortly after WikiLeaks’s July 22, 2016 release of hacked documents, he spoke to Trump ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■; Manafort recalled that Trump responded that Manafort should ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ keep Trump updated.27 Deputy campaign manager Rick Gates said that Manafort was getting pressure about ■■■■■■■■■ information and that Manafort instructed Gates HOM status updates on upcoming releases.28 Around the same time, Gates was with Trump on a trip to an airport ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■, and shortly after the call ended, Trump told Gates that more releases of damaging information would be coming.29 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ were discussed within the Campaign,30 and in the summer of 2016, the Campaign was planning a communications strategy based on the possible release of Clinton emails by WikiLeaks.31In the days that followed WikiLeaks’s July 22, 2016 release of hacked DNC emails, the Trump Campaign publicly rejected suggestions that Russia was seeking to aid candidate Trump. On July 26, 2016, Trump tweeted that it was “[c]razy” to suggest that Russia was “dealing with Trump"32 and that “[f]or the record,” he had “ZERO investments in Russia."33In a press conference the next day, July 27, 2016, Trump characterized “this whole thing with Russia” as “a total deflection” and stated that it was “farfetched” and “ridiculous."34 Trump said that the assertion that Russia had hacked the emails was unproven, but stated that it would give him “no pause” if Russia had Clinton’s emails.35 Trump added, “Russia, if you’re listening, I hope you’re able to find the 30,000 emails that are missing. I think you will probably be rewardedPresident’s activities, and his own criminal conduct, is described in Volume II, Section II.K, infra, and in Volume I, Section IV.A.1, supra.26 Cohen 8/7/18 302, at 8.27 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■As explained in footnote 197 of Volume I, Section III.D.1.b, supra, this Office has included Manafort’s account of these events because it aligns with those of other witnesses and is corroborated to that extent.28 Gates 10/25/18 302, at 4.29 Gates 10/25/18 302, at 4.30 Bannon 1/18/19 302, at 3.31 Gates 4/11/18 302, at 1-2 (SM-2180998); Gates 10/25/18 302, at 2 (messaging strategy was being formed in June/July timeframe based on claims by Assange on June 12, 2016, ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■).32 @realDonaldTrump 7/26/16 (6:47 p.m. ET) Tweet.33 @realDonaldTrump 7/26/16 (6:50 p.m. ET) Tweet.34 Donald Trump News Conference, Doral, Florida, C-SPAN (July 27, 2016).35 Donald Trump News Conference, Doral, Florida, C-SPAN (July 27, 2016).Vol. 2, Page 18mightily by our press.”36 Trump also said that “there’s nothing that I can think of that I’d rather do than have Russia friendly as opposed to the way they are right now,” and in response to a question about whether he would recognize Crimea as Russian territory and consider lifting sanctions, Trump replied, “We’ll be looking at that. Yeah, we’ll be looking."37During the press conference, Trump repeated “I have nothing to do with Russia” five times.38 He stated that “the closest [he] came to Russia” was that Russians may have purchased a home or condos from him.39 He said that after he held the Miss Universe pageant in Moscow in 2013 he had been interested in working with Russian companies that “wanted to put a lot of money into developments in Russia” but “it never worked out.”40 He explained, “[f]rankly, I didn’t want to do it for a couple of different reasons. But we had a major developer ... that wanted to develop property in Moscow and other places. But we decided not to do it.41 The Trump Organization, however, had been pursuing a building project in Moscow—the Trump Tower Moscow project- from approximately September 2015 through June 2016, and the candidate was regularly updated on developments, including possible trips by Michael Cohen to Moscow to promote the deal and by Trump himself to finalize it.42Cohen recalled speaking with Trump after the press conference about Trump’s denial of any business dealings in Russia, which Cohen regarded as untrue.43 Trump told Cohen that Trump Tower Moscow was not a deal yet and said, “Why mention it if it is not a deal?”44 According to Cohen, at around this time, in response to Trump’s disavowal of connections to Russia, campaign36 Donald Trump News Conference, Doral, Florida, C-SPAN (July 27, 2016). Within five hours of Trump’s remark, a Russian intelligence service began targeting email accounts associated with Hillary Clinton for possible hacks. See Volume 1, Section III, supra. In written answers submitted in this investigation, the President stated that he made the “Russia, if you’re listening” statement “in jest and sarcastically, as was apparent to any objective observer.” Written Responses of Donald J. Trump (Nov. 20, 2018), at 13 (Response to Question II, Part (d)).37 Donald Trump News Conference, Doral, Florida, C-SPAN (July 27, 2016). In his written answers submitted in this investigation, the President said that his statement that “we’ll be looking” at Crimea and sanctions did not communicate any position.” Written Responses of Donald J. Trump (Nov. 20, 2018), at 17 (Response to Question IV, Part (g)).38 Donald Trump News Conference, Doral, Florida, C-SPAN (July 27, 2016).39 Donald Trump News Conference, Doral, Florida, C-SPAN (July 27, 2016).40 Donald Trump News Conference, Doral, Florida, C-SPAN (July 27, 2016).41 Donald Trump News Conference, Doral, Florida, C-SPAN (July 27, 2016).42 The Trump Tower Moscow project and Trump’s involvement in it is discussed in detail in Volume 1, Section IV.A.1, supra, and Volume II, Section II.K, infra.43 Cohen 9/18/18 302, at 4.44 Cohen 9/18/18 302, at 4-5Vol. 2, Page 19advisors had developed a “party line” that Trump had no business with Russia and no connections to Russia.45 In addition to denying any connections with Russia, the Trump Campaign reacted to reports of Russian election interference in aid of the Campaign by seeking to distance itself from Russian contacts. For example, in August 2016, foreign policy advisor J.D. Gordon declined an invitation to Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak’s residence because the timing was “not optimal” in view of media reports about Russian interference.46 On August 19, 2016, Manafort was asked to resign amid media coverage scrutinizing his ties to a pro-Russian political party in Ukraine and links to Russian business.47 And when the media published stories about Page’s connections to Russia in September 2016, Trump Campaign officials terminated Page’s association with the Campaign and told the press that he had played “no role” in the Campaign."48On October 7, 2016, WikiLeaks released the first set of emails stolen by a Russian intelligence agency from Clinton Campaign chairman John Podesta.49 The same day, the federal government announced that “the Russian Government directed the recent compromises of e-mails from US persons and institutions, including from US political organizations.”50The government statement directly linked Russian hacking to the releases on WikiLeaks, with the goal of interfering with the presidential election, and concluded that only Russia’s senior-most officials could have authorized these activities” based on their “scope and sensitivity."51On October 11, 2016, Podesta stated publicly that the FBI was investigating Russia’s hacking and said that candidate Trump might have known in advance that the hacked emails were going to be released.52 Vice Presidential Candidate Mike Pence was asked whether the Trump45 Cohen 11/20/18 302, at 1; Cohen 9/18/18 302, at 3-5. The formation of the “party line” is described in greater detail in Volume II, Section II.K, infra.46 DJTFP00004953 (8/8/16 Email, Gordon to Pchelyakov) (stating that “[t]hese days are not optimal for us, as we are busily knocking down a stream of false media stories”). The invitation and Gordon’s response are discussed in Volume 1, Section IV.A.7.a, supra.47 See, e.g., Amber Phillips, Paul Manafort’s complicated ties to Ukraine, explained, Washington Post (Aug. 19, 2016) (“There were also a wave of fresh headlines dealing with investigations into \[Manafort’s] ties to a pro-Russian political party in Ukraine.”); Tom Winter &amp; Ken Dilanian, Donald Trump Aide Paul Manafort Scrutinized for Russian Business Ties, NBC (Aug. 18, 2016). Relevant events involving Manafort are discussed in Volume 1, Section IV.A.8, supra.48 Michael Isikoff, U.S. intel officials probe ties between Trump adviser and Kremlin, Yahoo News (Sep. 23, 2016); see, e.g., 9/25/16 Email, Hicks to Conway &amp; Bannon; 9/23/16 Email, J. Miller to Bannon &amp; S. Miller; Page 3/16/17 302, at 2.49 @WikiLeaks 10/7/16 (4:32 p.m. ET) Tweet.50 Joint Statement from the Department Of Homeland Security and Office of the Director of National Intelligence on Election Security, DHS (Oct. 7, 2016).51 Joint Statement from the Department Of Homeland Security and Office of the Director of National Intelligence on Election Security, DHS (Oct. 7, 2016).52 John Wagner &amp; Anne Gearan, Clinton campaign chairman ties email hack to Russians, suggests Trump had early warning, Washington Post (Oct. 11, 2016).Vol. 2, Page 20Campaign was “in cahoots” with WikiLeaks in releasing damaging Clinton-related information and responded, “Nothing could be further from the truth.”53On November 8, 2016, Trump was elected President. Two days later, Russian officials told the press that the Russian government had maintained contacts with Trump’s “immediate entourage” during the campaign.54 In response, Hope Hicks, who had been the Trump Campaign spokesperson, said, “We are not aware of any campaign representatives that were in touch with any foreign entities before yesterday, when Mr. Trump spoke with many world leaders.”55 Hicks gave an additional statement denying any contacts between the Campaign and Russia: “It never happened. There was no communication between the campaign and any foreign entity during the campaign.”56On December 10, 2016, the press reported that U.S. intelligence agencies had “concluded that Russia interfered in last month’s presidential election to boost Donald Trump’s bid for the White House."57 Reacting to the story the next day, President-Elect Trump stated, “I think it’s ridiculous. I think it’s just another excuse."58 He continued that no one really knew who was responsible for the hacking, suggesting that the intelligence community had “no idea if it’s Russia or China or somebody. It could be somebody sitting in a bed some place."59 The President-Elect53 Louis Nelson, Pence denies Trump camp in cahoots with WikiLeaks, Politico (Oct. 14, 2016).54 Ivan Nechepurenko, Russian Officials Were in Contact With Trump Allies, Diplomat Says, New York Times (Nov. 10, 2016) (quoting Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergey Ryabkov saying, “[t]here were contacts” and “I cannot say that all, but a number of them maintained contacts with Russian representatives”); Jim Heintz &amp; Matthew Lee, Russia eyes better ties with Trump; says contacts underway, Associated Press (Nov. 11, 2016) (quoting Ryabkov saying, “I don’t say that all of them, but a whole array of them supported contacts with Russian representatives”).55 Ivan Nechepurenko, Russian Officials were in Contact With Trump Allies, Diplomat Says, New York Times (Nov. 11, 2016) (quoting Hicks).56 Jim Heintz &amp; Matthew Lee, Russia eyes better ties with Trump; says contacts underway, Associated Press (Nov. 10, 2016) (quoting Hicks). Hicks recalled that after she made that statement, she spoke with Campaign advisors Kellyanne Conway, Stephen Miller, Jason Miller, and probably Kushner and Bannon to ensure it was accurate, and there was no hesitation or pushback from any of them. Hicks 12/8/17 302, at 4.57 Damien Gayle, CIA concludes Russia interfered to help Trump win election, say reports, Guardian (Dec. 10, 2016).58 Chris Wallace Hosts “Fox News Sunday,” Interview with President-Elect Donald Trump, CQ Newsmaker Transcripts (Dec. 11, 2016).59 Chris Wallace Hosts “Fox News Sunday,” Interview with President-Elect Donald Trump, CQ Newsmaker Transcripts (Dec. 11, 2016).Vol. 2, Page 21also said that Democrats were putting [] out” the story of Russian interference “because they suffered one of the greatest defeats in the history of politics.”60On December 18, 2016, Podesta told the press that the election was “distorted by the Russian intervention” and questioned whether Trump Campaign officials had been in touch with the Russians."61 The same day, incoming Chief of Staff Reince Priebus appeared on Fox News Sunday and declined to say whether the President-Elect accepted the intelligence community’s determination that Russia intervened in the election.62 When asked about any contact or coordination between the Campaign and Russia, Priebus said, “Even this question is insane. Of course we didn’t interface with the Russians.63 Priebus added that “this whole thing is a spin job” and said, “the real question is, why the Democrats ... are doing everything they can to delegitimize the outcome of the election?"64On December 29, 2016, the Obama Administration announced that in response to Russian cyber operations aimed at the U.S. election, it was imposing sanctions and other measures on several Russian individuals and entities.65 When first asked about the sanctions, President-Elect Trump said, “I think we ought to get on with our lives.”66 He then put out a statement that said “It’s time for our country to move on to bigger and better things,” but indicated that he would meet with intelligence community leaders the following week for a briefing on Russian interference.67 The briefing occurred on January 6, 2017.68 Following the briefing, the intelligence community released the public version of its assessment, which concluded with high confidence that Russia had intervened in the election through a variety of means with the goal of harming Clinton’s60 Chris Wallace Hosts “Fox News Sunday,” Interview with President-Elect Donald Trump, CQ Newsmaker Transcripts (Dec. 11, 2016).61 David Morgan, Clinton campaign: It’s an ‘open question’ if Trump team colluded with Russia, Reuters Business Insider (Dec. 18, 2016).62 Chris Wallace Hosts “Fox News Sunday, ” Interview with Incoming White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus, Fox News (Dec. 18, 2016).63 Chris Wallace Hosts “Fox News Sunday,” Interview with Incoming White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus, Fox News (Dec. 18, 2016).64 Chris Wallace Hosts “Fox News Sunday,” Interview with Incoming White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus, Fox News (Dec. 18, 2016).65 Statement by the President on Actions in Response to Russian Malicious Cyber Activity and Harassment, White House (Dec. 29, 2016); see also Missy Ryan et al., Obama administration announces measures to punish Russia for 2016 election interference, Washington Post (Dec. 29, 2016).66 John Wagner, Trump on alleged election interference by Russia: “Get on with our lives,” Washington Post (Dec. 29, 2016).67 Missy Ryan et al., Obama administration announces measures to punish Russia for 2016 election interference, Washington Post (Dec. 29, 2016).68 Comey 11/15/17 302, at 3.Vol. 2, Page 22electability.69 The assessment further concluded with high confidence that Putin and the Russian government had developed a clear preference for Trump.70Several days later, BuzzFeed published unverified allegations compiled by former British intelligence officer Christopher Steele during the campaign about candidate Trump’s Russia connections under the headline “These Reports Allege Trump Has Deep Ties To Russia.”72 In a press conference the next day, the President-Elect called the release “an absolute disgrace” and said, “I have no dealings with Russia. I have no deals that could happen in Russia, because we’ve stayed away. ... So I have no deals, I have no loans and I have no dealings. We could make deals in Russia very easily if we wanted to, I just don’t want to because I think that would be a conflict."72Several advisors recalled that the President-Elect viewed stories about his Russian connections, the Russia investigations, and the intelligence community assessment of Russian interference as a threat to the legitimacy of his electoral victory.73Hicks, for example, said that the President-Elect viewed the intelligence community assessment as his “Achilles heel” because, even if Russia had no impact on the election, people would think Russia helped him win, taking away from what he had accomplished.74 Sean Spicer, the first White House communications director, recalled that the President thought the Russia story was developed to undermine the legitimacy of his election.75 Gates said the President viewed the Russia investigation as an attack on the legitimacy of his win.76 And Priebus recalled that when the intelligence assessment came out, the President-Elect was concerned people would question the legitimacy of his win.7769 Office of the Director of National Intelligence, Russia’s Influence Campaign Targeting the 2016 US Presidential Election, at 1 (Jan. 6, 2017).70 Office of the Director of National Intelligence, Russia’s Influence Campaign Targeting the 2016 US Presidential Election, at 1 (Jan. 6, 2017).71 Ken Bensinger et al., These Reports Allege Trump Has Deep Ties To Russia, BuzzFeed (Jan. 10, 2017).72 Donald Trump’s News Conference: Full Transcript and Video, New York Times (Jan. 11, 2017), available at https://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/11/us/politics/trump-press-conference- transcript.html.73 Priebus 10/13/17 302, at 7; Hicks 3/13/18 302, at 18; Spicer 10/16/17 302, at 6; Bannon 2/14/18 302, at 2; Gates 4/18/18 302, at 3; see Pompeo 6/28/17 302, at 2 (the President believed that the purpose of the Russia investigation was to delegitimize his presidency).74 Hicks 3/13/18 302, at 18.75 Spicer 10/17/17 302, at 6.76 Gates 4/18/18 302, at 3.77 Priebus 10/13/17 302, at 7.Vol. 2, Page 23During the presidential transition, incoming National Security Advisor Michael Flynn had two phone calls with the Russian Ambassador to the United States about the Russian response to U.S. sanctions imposed because of Russia’s election interference. After the press reported on Flynn’s contacts with the Russian Ambassador, Flynn lied to incoming Administration officials by saying he had not discussed sanctions on the calls. The officials publicly repeated those lies in press interviews. The FBI, which previously was investigating Flynn for other matters, interviewed him about the calls in the first week after the inauguration, and Flynn told similar lies to the FBI. On January 26, 2017, Department of Justice (DOJ) officials notified the White House that Flynn and the Russian Ambassador had discussed sanctions and that Flynn had been interviewed by the FBI. The next night, the President had a private dinner with FBI Director James Comey in which he asked for Comey’s loyalty. On February 13, 2017, the President asked Flynn to resign. The following day, the President had a one-on-one conversation with Comey in which he said, “I hope you can see your way clear to letting this go, to letting Flynn go."Shortly after the election, President-Elect Trump announced he would appoint Michael Flynn as his National Security Advisor.78 For the next two months, Flynn played an active role on the Presidential Transition Team (PTT) coordinating policy positions and communicating with foreign government officials, including Russian Ambassador to the United States Sergey Kislyak.79On December 29, 2016, as noted in Volume II, Section II.A.4, supra, the Obama Administration announced that it was imposing sanctions and other measures on several Russian individuals and entities.80 That day, multiple members of the PTT exchanged emails about the sanctions and the impact they would have on the incoming Administration, and Flynn informed members of the PTT that he would be speaking to the Russian Ambassador later in the day8178 Flynn 11/16/17 302, at 7; President-Elect Donald J. Trump Selects U.S. Senator Jeff Sessions for Attorney General, Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn as Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs and U.S. Rep. Mike Pompeo as Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, President-Elect Donald J. Trump Press Release (Nov. 18, 2016); see also, e.g., Bryan Bender, Trump names Mike Flynn national security adviser, Politico, (Nov. 17, 2016).79 Flynn 11/16/17 302, at 8-14; Priebus 10/13/17 302, at 3-5.80 Statement by the President on Actions in Response to Russian Malicious Cyber Activity and Harassment, The White House, Office of the Press Secretary (Dec. 29, 2016).81 12/29/16 Email, O’Brien to McFarland et al.; 12/29/16 Email, Bossert to Flynn et al.; 12/29/16 Email, McFarland to Flynn et al.; SF000001 (12/29/16 Text Message, Flynn to Flaherty) (“Tit for tat w Russia not good. Russian AMBO reaching out to me today.”); Flynn 1/19/18 302, at 2.Vol. 2, Page 24Flynn, who was in the Dominican Republic at the time, and K.T. McFarland, who was slated to become the Deputy National Security Advisor and was at the Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida with the President-Elect and other senior staff, talked by phone about what, if anything, Flynn should communicate to Kislyak about the sanctions.82 McFarland had spoken with incoming Administration officials about the sanctions and Russia’s possible responses and thought she had mentioned in those conversations that Flynn was scheduled to speak with Kislyak.83 Based on those conversations, McFarland informed Flynn that incoming Administration officials at Mar-a- Lago did not want Russia to escalate the situation.84 At 4:43 p.m. that afternoon, McFarland sent an email to several officials about the sanctions and informed the group that “Gen [F]lynn is talking to russian ambassador this evening.”85Approximately one hour later, McFarland met with the President-Elect and senior officials and briefed them on the sanctions and Russia’s possible responses.86 Incoming Chief of Staff Reince Priebus recalled that McFarland may have mentioned at the meeting that the sanctions situation could be “cooled down” and not escalated.87 McFarland recalled that at the end of the meeting, someone may have mentioned to the President-Elect that Flynn was speaking to the Russian Ambassador that evening.88 McFarland did not recall any response by the President-Elect.89Priebus recalled that the President-Elect viewed the sanctions as an attempt by the Obama Administration to embarrass him by delegitimizing his election.90Immediately after discussing the sanctions with McFarland on December 29, 2016, Flynn called Kislyak and requested that Russia respond to the sanctions only in a reciprocal manner, without escalating the situation.91 After the call, Flynn briefed McFarland on its substance.92 Flynn told McFarland that the Russian response to the sanctions was not going to be escalatory because Russia wanted a good relationship with the Trump Administration.93 On December 30, 2016, Russian President Vladimir Putin announced that Russia would not take retaliatory measures82 Statement of Offense at 2-3, United States v. Michael T. Flynn, 1:17-cr-232 (D.D.C. Dec. 1, 2017), Doc. 4 (Flynn Statement of Offense); Flynn 11/17/17 302, at 3-4; Flynn 11/20/17 302, at 3; McFarland 12/22/17 302, at 6-7.83 McFarland 12/22/17 302, at 4-7 (recalling discussions about this issue with Bannon and Priebus).84 Flynn Statement of Offense, at 3; Flynn 11/17/17 302, at 3-4; McFarland 12/22/17 302, at 6-7.85 12/29/16 Email, McFarland to Flynn et al.86 McFarland 12/22/17 302, at 7.87 Priebus 1/18/18 302, at 3.88 McFarland 12/22/17 302, at 7. Priebus thought it was possible that McFarland had mentioned Flynn’s scheduled call with Kislyak at this meeting, although he was not certain. Priebus 1/18/18 302, at 3.89 McFarland 12/22/17 302, at 7.90 Priebus 1/18/18 302, at 3.91 Flynn Statement of Offense, at 3; Flynn 11/17/17 302, at 3-4.92 Flynn Statement of Offense, at 3; McFarland 12/22/17 302, at 7-8; Flynn 11/17/17 302, at 4.93 McFarland 12/22/17 302, at 8.Vol. 2, Page 25in response to the sanctions at that time and would instead “plan ... further steps to restore Russian- US relations based on the policies of the Trump Administration."94 Following that announcement, the President-Elect tweeted, “Great move on delay (by V. Putin) - I always knew he was very smart!"95On December 31, 2016, Kislyak called Flynn and told him that Flynn’s request had been received at the highest levels and Russia had chosen not to retaliate in response to the request.96 Later that day, Flynn told McFarland about this follow-up conversation with Kislyak and Russia’s decision not to escalate the sanctions situation based on Flynn’s request.97 McFarland recalled that Flynn thought his phone call had made a difference.98 Flynn spoke with other incoming Administration officials that day, but does not recall whether they discussed the sanctions.99Flynn recalled discussing the sanctions issue with incoming Administration official Stephen Bannon the next day.100 Flynn said that Bannon appeared to know about Flynn’s conversations with Kislyak, and he and Bannon agreed that they had “stopped the train on Russia’s response” to the sanctions.101/sup&gt; On January 3, 2017, Flynn saw the President-Elect in person and thought they discussed the Russian reaction to the sanctions, but Flynn did not have a specific recollection of telling the President-Elect about the substance of his calls with Kislyak.102Members of the intelligence community were surprised by Russia’s decision not to retaliate in response to the sanctions.103 When analyzing Russia’s response, they became aware of Flynn’s discussion of sanctions with Kislyak.104 Previously, the FBI had opened an investigation of Flynn based on his relationship with the Russian government.105 Flynn’s contacts with Kislyak became a key component of that investigation.10694Statement by the President of Russia, President of Russia (Dec. 30, 2016) 12/30/16.95@realDonaldTrump 12/30/16 (2:41 p.m. ET) Tweet.96 Flynn 1/19/18 302, at 3; Flynn Statement of Offense, at 3.97 Flynn 1/19/18 302, at 3; Flynn 11/17/17 302, at 6; McFarland 12/22/17 302, at 10; Flynn Statement of Offense, at 3.98 McFarland 12/22/17 302, at 10; see Flynn 1/19/18 302, at 4.99 Flynn 11/17/17 302, at 5-6.100 Flynn 1/19/18 302, at 4-5. Bannon recalled meeting with Flynn that day, but said he did not remember discussing sanctions with him. Bannon 2/12/18 302, at 9.101 Flynn 11/21/17 302, at 1; Flynn 1/19/18 302, at 5.102 Flynn 1/19/18 302, at 6; Flynn 11/17/17 302, at 6.103 McCord 7/17/17 302, at 2.104 McCord 7/17/17 302, at 2.105 McCord 7/17/17 302, at 2-3; Comey 11/15/17 302, at 5.106 McCord 7/17/17 302, at 2-3.Vol. 2, Page 26On January 6, 2017, as noted in Volume II, Section II.A.4, supra, intelligence officials briefed President-Elect Trump and the incoming Administration on the intelligence community’s assessment that Russia had interfered in the 2016 presidential election.107 When the briefing concluded, Comey spoke with the President-Elect privately to brief him on unverified, personally sensitive allegations compiled by Steele.108 According to a memorandum Comey drafted immediately after their private discussion, the President-Elect began the meeting by telling Comey he had conducted himself honorably over the prior year and had a great reputation.109 The President-Elect stated that he thought highly of Comey, looked forward to working with him, and hoped that he planned to stay on as FBI director.110 Comey responded that he intended to continue serving in that role.111 Comey then briefed the President-Elect on the sensitive material in the Steele reporting.112 Comey recalled that the President-Elect seemed defensive, so Comey decided107 Hearing on Russian Election Interference Before the Senate Select Intelligence Committee, 115th Cong. (June 8, 2017) (Statement for the Record of James B. Comey, former Director of the FBI, at 1-2).108 Comey 11/15/17 302, at 3; Hearing on Russian Election Interference Before the Senate Select Intelligence Committee, 115th Cong. (June 8, 2017) (Statement for the Record of James B. Comey, former Director of the FBI, at 1-2).109 Comey 1/7/17 Memorandum, at 1. Comey began drafting the memorandum summarizing the meeting immediately after it occurred. Comey 11/15/17 302, at 4. He finished the memorandum that evening and finalized it the following morning. Comey 11/15/17 302, at 4.110 Comey 1/7/17 Memorandum, at 1; Comey 11/15/17 302, at 3. Comey identified several other occasions in January 2017 when the President reiterated that he hoped Comey would stay on as FBI director. On January 11, President-Elect Trump called Comey to discuss the Steele reports and stated that he thought Comey was doing great and the President-Elect hoped he would remain in his position as FBI director. Comey 11/15/17 302, at 4; Hearing on Russian Election Interference Before the Senate Select Intelligence Committee, 115th Cong. (June 8, 2017) (testimony of James B. Comey, former Director of the FBI), CQ Cong. Transcripts, at 90. (“[D]uring that call, he asked me again, ‘Hope you’re going to stay, you’re doing a great job.’ And I told him that I intended to.”). On January 22, at a White House reception honoring law enforcement, the President greeted Comey and said he looked forward to working with him. Hearing on Russian Election Interference Before the Senate Select Intelligence Committee, 115th Cong. (June 8, 2017) (testimony of James B. Comey, former Director of the FBI), CQ Cong. Transcripts, at 22. And as discussed in greater detail in Volume II, Section II.D, infra, on January 27, the President invited Comey to dinner at the White House and said he was glad Comey wanted to stay on as FBI Director.111Comey 1/7/17 Memorandum, at 1; Comey 11/15/17 302, at 3.112 Comey 1/7/17 Memorandum, at 1-2; Comey 11/15/17 302, at 3. Comey’s briefing included the Steele reporting’s unverified allegation that the Russians had compromising tapes of the President involving conduct when he was a private citizen during a 2013 trip to Moscow for the Miss Universe Pageant. During the 2016 presidential campaign, a similar claim may have reached candidate Trump. On October 30, 2016, Michael Cohen received a text from Russian businessman Giorgi Rtskhiladze that said, “Stopped flow of tapes from Russia but not sure if there’s anything else. Just so you know ....” 10/30/16 Text Message, Rtskhiladze to Cohen.1 Rtskhiladze said “tapes” referred to compromising tapes of Trump rumored to be held by persons associated with the Russian real estate conglomerate Crocus Group, which had helped host the 2013 Miss Universe Pageant in Russia. Rtskhiladze 4/4/18 302, at 12. Cohen said he spoke to Trump about the issue after receiving the texts from Rtskhiladze. Cohen 9/12/18 302, at 13. Rtskhiladze said he was told the tapes were fake, but he did not communicate that to Cohen. Rtskhiladze 5/10/18 302, at 7.Vol. 2, Page 27to assure him that the FBI was not investigating him personally.113 Comey recalled he did not want the President-Elect to think of the conversation as a “J. Edgar Hoover move."114On January 10, 2017, the media reported that Comey had briefed the President-Elect on the Steele reporting,115 and BuzzFeed News published information compiled by Steele online, stating that the information included “specific, unverified, and potentially unverifiable allegations of contact between Trump aides and Russian operatives.”116 The next day, the President-Elect expressed concern to intelligence community leaders about the fact that the information had leaked and asked whether they could make public statements refuting the allegations in the Steele reports.117In the following weeks, three Congressional committees opened investigations to examine Russia’s interference in the election and whether the Trump Campaign had colluded with Russia.118 On January 13, 2017, the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence (SSCI) announced that it would conduct a bipartisan inquiry into Russian interference in the election, including any “links between Russia and individuals associated with political campaigns."119 On January 25, 2017, the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence (HPSCI) announced that it had been conducting an investigation into Russian election interference and possible coordination with the political campaigns.120 And on February 2, 2017, the Senate Judiciary Committee announced that it too would investigate Russian efforts to intervene in the election.121113 Comey 11/15/17 302, at 3-4; Hearing on Russian Election Interference Before the Senate Select Intelligence Committee, 115th Cong. (June 8, 2017) (Statement for the Record of James B. Comey, former Director of the FBI, at 2).114 Comey 11/15/17 302, at 3.115 See, e.g., Evan Perez et al., Intel chiefs presented Trump with claims of Russian efforts to compromise him, CNN (Jan. 10, 2017; updated Jan. 12, 2017).116 Ken Bensinger et al., These Reports Allege Trump Has Deep Ties To Russia, BuzzFeed News (Jan. 10, 2017).117 See 1/11/17 Email, Clapper to Comey ("He asked if I could put out a statement. He would prefer of course that I say the documents are bogus, which, of course, I can’t do.”); 1/12/17 Email, Comey to Clapper ("He called me at 5 yesterday and we had a very similar conversation.”); Comey 11/15/17 302, at 4-5.118 See 2016 Presidential Election Investigation Fast Facts, CNN (first published Oct. 12, 2017; updated Mar. 1, 2019) (summarizing starting dates of Russia-related investigations).119 Joint Statement on Committee Inquiry into Russian Intelligence Activities, SSCI (Jan. 13, 2017).120 Joint Statement on Progress of Bipartisan HPSCI Inquiry into Russian Active Measures, HPSCI (Jan. 25, 2017).121 Joint Statement from Senators Graham and Whitehouse on Investigation into Russian Influence on Democratic Nations’ Elections (Feb. 2, 2017).Vol. 2, Page 28On January 12, 2017, a Washington Post columnist reported that Flynn and Kislyak communicated on the day the Obama Administration announced the Russia sanctions.122 The column questioned whether Flynn had said something to “undercut the U.S. sanctions” and whether Flynn’s communications had violated the letter or spirit of the Logan Act.123President-Elect Trump called Priebus after the story was published and expressed anger about it.124 Priebus recalled that the President-Elect asked, “What the hell is this all about?"125 Priebus called Flynn and told him that the President-Elect was angry about the reporting on Flynn’s conversations with Kislyak.126 Flynn recalled that he felt a lot of pressure because Priebus had spoken to the “boss” and said Flynn needed to “kill the story.”127 Flynn directed McFarland to call the Washington Post columnist and inform him that no discussion of sanctions had occurred.128 McFarland recalled that Flynn said words to the effect of, “I want to kill the story."129 McFarland made the call as Flynn had requested although she knew she was providing false information, and the Washington Post updated the column to reflect that a “Trump official” had denied that Flynn and Kislyak discussed sanctions.130When Priebus and other incoming Administration officials questioned Flynn internally about the Washington Post column, Flynn maintained that he had not discussed sanctions with Kislyak.131 Flynn repeated that claim to Vice President-Elect Michael Pence and to incoming press secretary Sean Spicer.132 In subsequent media interviews in mid-January, Pence, Priebus, and122 David Ignatius, Why did Obama dawdle on Russia’s hacking?, Washington Post (Jan. 12, 2017).123 David Ignatius, Why did Obama dawdle on Russia’s hacking?, Washington Post (Jan. 12, 2017). The Logan Act makes it a crime for “[a]ny citizen of the United States, wherever he may be” to “without authority of the United States, directly or indirectly commence[] or carr[y] on any correspondence or intercourse with any foreign government or any officer or agent thereof, in relation to any disputes or controversies with the United States, or to defeat the measures of the United States.” 18 U.S.C. $ 953.124 Priebus 1/18/18 302, at 6.125 Priebus 1/18/18 302, at 6.126 Priebus 1/18/18 302, at 6.127 Flynn 11/21/17 302, at 1; Flynn 11/20/17 302, at 6.128 McFarland 12/22/17 302, at 12-13.129McFarland 12/22/17 302, at 12.130 McFarland 12/22/17 302, at 12-13; McFarland 8/29/17 302, at 8; see David Ignatius, Why did Obama dawdle on Russia’s hacking?, Washington Post (Jan. 12, 2017).131 Flynn 11/17/17 302, at 1, 8; Flynn 1/19/18 302, at 7; Priebus 10/13/17 302, at 7-8; S. Miller 8/31/17 302, at 8-11.132 Flynn 11/17/17 302, at 1, 8; Flynn 1/19/18 302, at 7; S. Miller 8/31/17 302, at 10-11.Vol. 2, Page 29Spicer denied that Flynn and Kislyak had discussed sanctions, basing those denials on their conversations with Flynn.133The public statements of incoming Administration officials denying that Flynn and Kislyak had discussed sanctions alarmed senior DOJ officials, who were aware that the statements were not true.134Those officials were concerned that Flynn had lied to his colleagues—who in turn had unwittingly misled the American public—creating a compromise situation for Flynn because the Department of Justice assessed that the Russian government could prove Flynn lied.135 The FBI investigative team also believed that Flynn’s calls with Kislyak and subsequent denials about discussing sanctions raised potential Logan Act issues and were relevant to the FBI’s broader Russia investigation.136On January 20, 2017, President Trump was inaugurated and Flynn was sworn in as National Security Advisor. On January 23, 2017, Spicer delivered his first press briefing and stated that he had spoken with Flynn the night before, who confirmed that the calls with Kislyak were about topics unrelated to sanctions.137 Spicer’s statements added to the Department of Justice’s concerns that Russia had leverage over Flynn based on his lies and could use that derogatory information to compromise him.138On January 24, 2017, Flynn agreed to be interviewed by agents from the FBI.139 During the interview, which took place at the White House, Flynn falsely stated that he did not ask Kislyak to refrain from escalating the situation in response to the sanctions on Russia imposed by the Obama Administration.140 Flynn also falsely stated that he did not remember a follow-up conversation in which Kislyak stated that Russia had chosen to moderate its response to those sanctions as a result of Flynn’s request.141133 Face the Nation Interview with Vice President-Elect Pence, CBS (Jan. 15, 2017); Julie Hirschfield Davis et al., Trump National Security Advisor Called Russian Envoy Day Before Sanctions Were Imposed, Washington Post (Jan. 13, 2017); Meet the Press Interview with Reince Priebus, NBC (Jan. 15, 2017).134 Yates 8/15/17 302, at 2-3; McCord 7/17/17 302, at 3-4; McCabe 8/17/17 302, at 5 (DOJ officials were “really freaked out about it”).135 Yates 8/15/17 302, at 3; McCord 7/17/17 302, at 4.136 McCord 7/17/17 302, at 4; McCabe 8/17/17 302, at 5-6.137 Sean Spicer, White House Daily Briefing, C-SPAN (Jan. 23, 2017).138 Yates 8/15/17 302, at 4; Axelrod 7/20/17 302, at 5.139 Flynn Statement of Offense, at 2.140 Flynn Statement of Offense, at 2.141 Flynn Statement of Offense, at 2. On December 1, 2017, Flynn admitted to making these false statements and pleaded guilty to violating 18 U.S.C. § 1001, which makes it a crime to knowingly and willfully “make[] any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation” to federal law enforcement officials. See Volume I, Section IV.A.7, supra.Vol. 2, Page 30On January 26, 2017, Acting Attorney General Sally Yates contacted White House Counsel Donald McGahn and informed him that she needed to discuss a sensitive matter with him in person.142 Later that day, Yates and Mary McCord, a senior national security official at the Department of Justice, met at the White House with McGahn and White House Counsel’s Office attorney James Burnham.143 Yates said that the public statements made by the Vice President denying that Flynn and Kislyak discussed sanctions were not true and put Flynn in a potentially compromised position because the Russians would know he had lied.144 Yates disclosed that Flynn had been interviewed by the FBI.145 She declined to answer a specific question about how Flynn had performed during that interview,146 but she indicated that Flynn’s statements to the FBI were similar to the statements he had made to Pence and Spicer denying that he had discussed sanctions.147 McGahn came away from the meeting with the impression that the FBI had not pinned Flynn down in lies,148 but he asked John Eisenberg, who served as legal advisor to the National Security Council, to examine potential legal issues raised by Flynn’s FBI interview and his contacts with Kislyak.149That afternoon, McGahn notified the President that Yates had come to the White House to discuss concerns about Flynn.150 McGahn described what Yates had told him, and the President asked him to repeat it, so he did.151 McGahn recalled that when he described the FBI interview of Flynn, he said that Flynn did not disclose having discussed sanctions with Kislyak, but that there may not have been a clear violation of 18 U.S.C. $ 1001.152 The President asked about Section 1001, and McGahn explained the law to him, and also explained the Logan Act.153 The President142Yates 8/15/17 302, at 6.143 Yates 8/15/17 302, at 6; McCord 7/17/17 302, at 6; SCR015_000198 (2/15/17 Draft Memorandum to file from the Office of the Counsel to the President).144 Yates 8/15/17 302, at 6-8; McCord 7/17/17 302, at 6-7; Burnham 11/3/17 302, at 4; SCR015_000198 (2/15/17 Draft Memorandum to file from the Office of the Counsel to the President).145 McGahn 11/30/17 302, at 5; Yates 8/15/17 302, at 7; McCord 7/17/17 302, at 7; Burnham 11/3/17 302, at 4.146 Yates 8/15/17 302, at 7; McCord 7/17/17 302, at 7.147 SCR015 000198 (2/15/17 Draft Memorandum to file from the Office of the Counsel to the President); Burnham 11/3/17 302, at 4.148 McGahn 11/30/17 302, at 5.149 SCR015 000198 (2/15/17 Draft Memorandum to file from the Office of the Counsel to the President); McGahn 11/30/17 302, at 6, 8.150 McGahn 11/30/17 302, at 6; SCR015_000278 (White House Counsel’s Office Memorandum re: “Flynn Tick Tock”) (on January 26, “McGahn IMMEDIATELY advises POTUS”); SCR015 000198 (2/15/17 Draft Memorandum to file from the Office of the Counsel to the President).151 McGahn 11/30/17 302, at 6.152 McGahn 11/30/17 302, at 7.153 McGahn 11/30/17 302, at 7.Vol. 2, Page 31instructed McGahn to work with Priebus and Bannon to look into the matter further and directed that they not discuss it with any other officials.154 Priebus recalled that the President was angry with Flynn in light of what Yates had told the White House and said, “not again, this guy, this stuff."155That evening, the President dined with several senior advisors and asked the group what they thought about FBI Director Comey.156 According to Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats, who was at the dinner, no one openly advocated terminating Comey but the consensus on him was not positive.157 Coats told the group that he thought Comey was a good director.158 Coats encouraged the President to meet Comey face-to-face and spend time with him before making a decision about whether to retain him."159The next day, January 27, 2017, McGahn and Eisenberg discussed the results of Eisenberg’s initial legal research into Flynn’s conduct, and specifically whether Flynn may have violated the Espionage Act, the Logan Act, or 18 U.S.C. § 1001.160 Based on his preliminary research, Eisenberg informed McGahn that there was a possibility that Flynn had violated 18 U.S.C. § 1001 and the Logan Act.161 Eisenberg noted that the United States had never successfully prosecuted an individual under the Logan Act and that Flynn could have possible defenses, and154 McGahn 11/30/17 302, at 7; SCR015_000198-99 (2/15/17 Draft Memorandum to file from the Office of the Counsel to the President).155 Priebus 10/13/17 302, at 8. Several witnesses said that the President was unhappy with Flynn for other reasons at this time. Bannon said that Flynn’s standing with the President was not good by December 2016. Bannon 2/12/18 302, at 12. The President-Elect had concerns because President Obama had warned him about Flynn shortly after the election. Bannon 2/12/18 302, at 4-5; Hicks 12/8/17 302, at 7 (President Obama’s comment sat with President-Elect Trump more than Hicks expected). Priebus said that the President had become unhappy with Flynn even before the story of his calls with Kislyak broke and had become so upset with Flynn that he would not look at him during intelligence briefings. Priebus 1/18/18 302, at 8. Hicks said that the President thought Flynn had bad judgment and was angered by tweets sent by Flynn and his son, and she described Flynn as “being on thin ice” by early February 2017. Hicks 12/8/17 302, at 7, 10.156 Coats 6/14/17 302, at 2.157 Coats 6/14/17 302, at 2.158 Coats 6/14/17 302, at 2.159 Coats 6/14/17 302, at 2.160 SCR015_000199 (2/15/17 Draft Memorandum to file from the Office of the Counsel to the President); McGahn 11/30/17 302, at 8.161 SCR015 000199 (2/15/17 Draft Memorandum to file from the Office of the Counsel to the President); Eisenberg 11/29/17 302, at 9.Vol. 2, Page 32told McGahn that he believed it was unlikely that a prosecutor would pursue a Logan Act charge under the circumstances.162That same morning, McGahn asked Yates to return to the White House to discuss Flynn again.163 In that second meeting, McGahn expressed doubts that the Department of Justice would bring a Logan Act prosecution against Flynn, but stated that the White House did not want to take action that would interfere with an ongoing FBI investigation of Flynn.164 Yates responded that Department of Justice had notified the White House so that it could take action in response to the information provided.165 McGahn ended the meeting by asking Yates for access to the underlying information the Department of Justice possessed pertaining to Flynn’s discussions with Kislyak.166Also on January 27, the President called FBI Director Comey and invited him to dinner that evening.167 Priebus recalled that before the dinner, he told the President something like, “don’t talk about Russia, whatever you do,” and the President promised he would not talk about Russia at the dinner.168 McGahn had previously advised the President that he should not communicate directly with the Department of Justice to avoid the perception or reality of political interference in law enforcement.169 When Bannon learned about the President’s planned dinner with Comey, he suggested that he or Priebus also attend, but the President stated that he wanted to dine with Comey alone.170 Comey said that when he arrived for the dinner that evening, he was surprised and concerned to see that no one else had been invited.171162 SCR015_000199 (2/15/17 Draft Memorandum to file from the Office of the Counsel to the President); Eisenberg 11/29/17 302, at 9.163 SCR015 000199 (2/15/17 Draft Memorandum to file from the Office of the Counsel to the President); McGahn 11/30/17 302, at 8; Yates 8/15/17 302, at 8.164 Yates 8/15/17 302, at 9; McGahn 11/30/17 302, at 8.165 Yates 8/15/17 302, at 9; Burnham 11/3/17 302, at 5; see SCR015_00199 (2/15/17 Draft Memorandum to file from the Office of the Counsel to the President) (“Yates was unwilling to confirm or deny that there was an ongoing investigation but did indicate that the Department of Justice would not object to the White House taking action against Flynn.”).166 Yates 9/15/17 302, at 9; Burnham 11/3/17 302, at 5. In accordance with McGahn’s request, the Department of Justice made the underlying information available and Eisenberg viewed the information in early February. Eisenberg 11/29/17 302, at 5; FBI 2/7/17 Electronic Communication, at 1 (documenting 2/2/17 meeting with Eisenberg).167 Comey 11/15/17 302, at 6; SCR012b_000001 (President’s Daily Diary, 1/27/17); Hearing on Russian Election Interference Before the Senate Select Intelligence Committee, 115th Cong. (June 8, 2017) (Statement for the Record of James B. Comey, former Director of the FBI, at 2-3).168 Priebus 10/13/17 302, at 17.169 See McGahn 11/30/17 302, at 9; Dhillon 11/21/17 302, at 2; Bannon 2/12/18 302, at 17.170 Bannon 2/12/18 302, at 17.171 Hearing on Russian Election Interference Before the Senate Select Intelligence Committee, 115th Cong. (June 8, 2017) (Statement for the Record of James B. Comey, former Director of the FBI, at 3); see Comey 11/15/17 302, at 6.Vol. 2, Page 33Comey provided an account of the dinner in a contemporaneous memo, an interview with this Office, and congressional testimony. According to Comey’s account of the dinner, the President repeatedly brought up Comey’s future, asking whether he wanted to stay on as FBI director.172 Because the President had previously said he wanted Comey to stay on as FBI director, Comey interpreted the President’s comments as an effort to create a patronage relationship by having Comey ask for his job.173 The President also brought up the Steele reporting that Comey had raised in the January 6, 2017 briefing and stated that he was thinking about ordering the FBI to investigate the allegations to prove they were false.174 Comey responded that the President should think carefully about issuing such an order because it could create a narrative that the FBI was investigating him personally, which was incorrect.175 Later in the dinner, the President brought up Flynn and said, “the guy has serious judgment issues."176 Comey did not comment on Flynn and the President did not acknowledge any FBI interest in or contact with Flynn.177According to Comey’s account, at one point during the dinner the President stated, “I need loyalty, I expect loyalty."178 Comey did not respond and the conversation moved on to other topics, but the President returned to the subject of Comey’s job at the end of the dinner and repeated, “I need loyalty.”:179 Comey responded, “You will always get honesty from me."180 The172 Comey 11/15/17 302, at 7; Comey 1/28/17 Memorandum, at 1, 3; Hearing on Russian Election Interference Before the Senate Select Intelligence Committee, 115th Cong. (June 8, 2017) (Statement for the Record of James B. Comey, former Director of the FBI, at 3).173 Comey 11/15/17 302, at 7; Hearing on Russian Election Interference Before the Senate Select Intelligence Committee, 115th Cong. (June 8, 2017) (Statement for the Record of James B. Comey, former Director of the FBI, at 3).174 Comey 1/28/17 Memorandum, at 3; Hearing on Russian Election Interference Before the Senate Select Intelligence Committee, 115th Cong. (June 8, 2017) (Statement for the Record of James B. Comey, former Director of the FBI, at 4).175 Comey 1/28/17 Memorandum, at 3; Hearing on Russian Election Interference Before the Senate Select Intelligence Committee, 115th Cong. (June 8, 2017) (Statement for the Record of James B. Comey, former Director of the FBI, at 4).176 Comey 1/28/17 Memorandum, at 4; Comey 11/15/17 302, at 7.177 Comey 1/28/17 Memorandum, at 4; Comey 11/15/17 302, at 7.178 Comey 1/28/18 Memorandum, at 2; Comey 11/15/17 302, at 7; Hearing on Russian Election Interference Before the Senate Select Intelligence Committee, 115th Cong. (June 8, 2017) (Statement for the Record of James B. Comey, former Director of the FBI, at 3).179 Comey 1/28/17 Memorandum, at 3; Comey 11/15/17 302, at 7; Hearing on Russian Election Interference Before the Senate Select Intelligence Committee, 115th Cong. (June 8, 2017) (Statement for the Record of James B. Comey, former Director of the FBI, at 3-4).180 Comey 1/28/17 Memorandum, at 3; Comey 11/15/17 302, at 7; Hearing on Russian Election Interference Before the Senate Select Intelligence Committee, 115th Cong. (June 8, 2017) (Statement for the Record of James B. Comey, former Director of the FBI, at 4).Vol. 2, Page 34President said, “That’s what I want, honest loyalty."181 Comey said, “You will get that from me."182After Comey’s account of the dinner became public, the President and his advisors disputed that he had asked for Comey’s loyalty.183 The President also indicated that he had not invited Comey to dinner, telling a reporter that he thought Comey had “asked for the dinner” because “he wanted to stay on,"184 But substantial evidence corroborates Comey’s account of the dinner invitation and the request for loyalty. The President’s Daily Diary confirms that the President “extend[ed] a dinner invitation” to Comey on January 27,185 With respect to the substance of the dinner conversation, Comey documented the President’s request for loyalty in a memorandum he began drafting the night of the dinner;186 senior FBI officials recall that Comey told them about the loyalty request shortly after the dinner occurred;187 and Comey described the request while181 Comey 1/28/17 Memorandum, at 3; Comey 11/15/17 302, at 7; Hearing on Russian Election Interference Before the Senate Select Intelligence Committee, 115th Cong. (June 8, 2017) (Statement for the Record of James B. Comey, former Director of the FBI, at 4).182 Comey 1/28/17 Memorandum, at 3; Comey 11/15/17 302, at 7; Hearing on Russian Election Interference Before the Senate Select Intelligence Committee, 115th Cong. (June 8, 2017) (Statement for the Record of James B. Comey, former Director of the FBI, at 4).183 See, e.g., Michael S. Schmidt, In a Private Dinner, Trump Demanded Loyalty. Comey Demurred., New York Times (May 11, 2017) (quoting Sarah Sanders as saying, “[The President] would never even suggest the expectation of personal loyalty’); Ali Vitali, Trump Never Asked for Comey’s Loyalty, President’s Personal Lawyer Says, NBC (June 8, 2017) (quoting the President’s personal counsel as saying, “The president also never told Mr. Comey, “I need loyalty, I expect loyalty,’ in form or substance.”); Remarks by President Trump in Press Conference, White House (June 9, 2017) (“I hardly know the man. I’m not going to say “I want you to pledge allegiance.’ Who would do that? Who would ask a man to pledge allegiance under oath?”). In a private conversation with Spicer, the President stated that he had never asked for Comey’s loyalty, but added that if he had asked for loyalty, “Who cares?” Spicer 10/16/17 302, at 4. The President also told McGahn that he never said what Comey said he had. McGahn 12/12/17 302, at 17.184 Interview of Donald J. Trump, NBC (May 11, 2017).185 SCR0126 000001 (President’s Daily Diary, 1/27/17) (reflecting that the President called Comey in the morning on January 27 and “[t]he purpose of the call was to extend a dinner invitation”). In addition, two witnesses corroborate Comey’s account that the President reached out to schedule the dinner, without Comey having asked for it. Priebus 10/13/17 302, at 17 (the President asked to schedule the January 27 dinner because he did not know much about Comey and intended to ask him whether he wanted to stay on as FBI Director); Rybicki 11/21/18 302, at 3 (recalling that Comey told him about the President’s dinner invitation on the day of the dinner).186 Comey 11/15/17 302, at 8; Hearing on Russian Election Interference Before the Senate Select Intelligence Committee, 115th Cong. (June 8, 2017) (Statement for the Record of James B. Comey, former Director of the FBI, at 4).187 McCabe 8/17/17 302, at 9-10; Rybicki 11/21/18 302, at 3. After leaving the White House, Comey called Deputy Director of the FBI Andrew McCabe, summarized what he and the President had discussed, including the President’s request for loyalty, and expressed shock over the President’s request. McCabe 8/17/17 302, at 9. Comey also convened a meeting with his senior leadership team to discuss what the President had asked of him during the dinner and whether he had handled the request for loyalty properly. McCabe 8/17/17 302, at 10; Rybicki 11/21/18 302, at 3. In addition, Comey distributed his memorandum documenting the dinner to his senior leadership team, and McCabe confirmed that the memorandum captured what Comey said on the telephone call immediately following the dinner. McCabe 8/17/17 302, at 9-10.Vol. 2, Page 35under oath in congressional proceedings and in a subsequent interview with investigators subject to penalties for lying under 18 U.S.C. § 1001. Comey’s memory of the details of the dinner, including that the President requested loyalty, has remained consistent throughout.188On February 2, 2017, Eisenberg reviewed the underlying information relating to Flynn’s calls with Kislyak.189 Eisenberg recalled that he prepared a memorandum about criminal statutes that could apply to Flynn’s conduct, but he did not believe the White House had enough information to make a definitive recommendation to the President.190 Eisenberg and McGahn discussed that Eisenberg’s review of the underlying information confirmed his preliminary conclusion that Flynn was unlikely to be prosecuted for violating the Logan Act.191 Because White House officials were uncertain what Flynn had told the FBI, however, they could not assess his exposure to prosecution for violating 18 U.S.C. § 1001.191The week of February 6, Flynn had a one-on-one conversation with the President in the Oval Office about the negative media coverage of his contacts with Kislyak. 193 Flynn recalled that the President was upset and asked him for information on the conversations.194 Flynn listed the specific dates on which he remembered speaking with Kislyak, but the President corrected one of the dates he listed.195 The President asked Flynn what he and Kislyak discussed and Flynn responded that he might have talked about sanctions.196188 There also is evidence that corroborates other aspects of the memoranda Comey wrote documenting his interactions with the President. For example, Comey recalled, and his memoranda reflect, that he told the President in his January 6, 2017 meeting, and on phone calls on March 30 and April 11, 2017, that the FBI was not investigating the President personally. On May 8, 2017, during White House discussions about firing Comey, the President told Rosenstein and others that Comey had told him three times that he was not under investigation, including once in person and twice on the phone. Gauhar-000058 (Gauhar 5/16/17 Notes).189 Eisenberg 11/29/17 302, at 5; FBI 2/7/17 Electronic Communication, at 1 (documenting 2/2/17 meeting with Eisenberg).190 Eisenberg 11/29/17 302, at 6.191 Eisenberg 11/29/17 302, at 9; SCR015_000200 (2/15/17 Draft Memorandum to file from the Office of the Counsel to the President).192 Eisenberg 11/29/17 302, at 9.193 Flynn 11/21/17 302, at 2.194 Flynn 11/21/17 302, at 2.195 Flynn 11/21/17 302, at 2.196 Flynn 11/21/17 302, at 2-3.Vol. 2, Page 36On February 9, 2017, the Washington Post reported that Flynn discussed sanctions with Kislyak the month before the President took office.197 After the publication of that story, Vice President Pence learned of the Department of Justice’s notification to the White House about the content of Flynn’s calls.198 He and other advisors then sought access to and reviewed the underlying information about Flynn’s contacts with Kislyak.199 FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe, who provided the White House officials access to the information and was present when they reviewed it, recalled the officials asking him whether Flynn’s conduct violated the Logan Act.200 McCabe responded that he did not know, but the FBI was investigating the matter because it was a possibility.201 Based on the evidence of Flynn’s contacts with Kislyak, McGahn and Priebus concluded that Flynn could not have forgotten the details of the discussions of sanctions and had instead been lying about what he discussed with Kislyak.202 Flynn had also told White House officials that the FBI had told him that the FBI was closing out its investigation of him,203 but Eisenberg did not believe him.204 After reviewing the materials and speaking with Flynn, McGahn and Priebus concluded that Flynn should be terminated and recommended that course of action to the President.205That weekend, Flynn accompanied the President to Mar-a-Lago.206 Flynn recalled that on February 12, 2017, on the return flight to D.C. on Air Force One, the President asked him whether he had lied to the Vice President 207 Flynn responded that he may have forgotten details of his calls, but he did not think he lied.2-8 The President responded, “Okay. That’s fine. I got it."209197 Greg Miller et al., National security adviser Flynn discussed sanctions with Russian ambassador, despite denials, officials say, Washington Post (Feb. 9, 2017).198 SCR015 000202 (2/15/17 Draft Memorandum to file from the Office of the Counsel to the President); McGahn 11/30/17 302, at 12.199 SCR015 000202 (2/15/17 Draft Memorandum to file from the Office of the Counsel to the President); McCabe 8/17/17 302, at 11-13; Priebus 10/13/17 302, at 10; McGahn 11/30/17 302, at 12.200 McCabe 8/17/17 302, at 13.201 McCabe 8/17/17 302, at 13.202 McGahn 11/30/17 302, at 12; Priebus 1/18/18 302, at 8; Priebus 10/13/17 302, at 10; SCR015_000202 (2/15/17 Draft Memorandum to file from the Office of the Counsel to the President).203 McGahn 11/30/17 302, at 11; Eisenberg 11/29/17 302, at 9; Priebus 10/13/17 302, at 11.204 Eisenberg 11/29/17 302, at 9.205 SCR015_000202 (2/15/17 Draft Memorandum to file from the Office of the Counsel to the President); Priebus 10/13/17 302, at 10; McGahn 11/30/17 302, at 12.206 Flynn 11/17/17 302, at 8.207 Flynn 1/19/18 302, at 9; Flynn 11/17/17 302, at 8.208 Flynn 11/17/17 302, at 8; Flynn 1/19/18 302, at 9.209 Flynn 1/19/18 302, at 9.Vol. 2, Page 37On February 13, 2017, Priebus told Flynn he had to resign.210 Flynn said he wanted to say goodbye to the President, so Priebus brought him to the Oval Office.211 Priebus recalled that the President hugged Flynn, shook his hand, and said, “We’ll give you a good recommendation. You’re a good guy. We’ll take care of you.”212Talking points on the resignation prepared by the White House Counsel’s Office and distributed to the White House communications team stated that McGahn had advised the President that Flynn was unlikely to be prosecuted, and the President had determined that the issue with Flynn was one of trust.213 Spicer told the press the next day that Flynn was forced to resign “not based on a legal issue, but based on a trust issue, [where] a level of trust between the President and General Flynn had eroded to the point where [the President] felt he had to make a change. “214On February 14, 2017, the day after Flynn’s resignation, the President had lunch at the White House with New Jersey Governor Chris Christie.215 According to Christie, at one point during the lunch the President said, “Now that we fired Flynn, the Russia thing is over."216 Christie laughed and responded, “No way."217 He said, “this Russia thing is far from over” and “[w]e’ll be here on Valentine’s Day 2018 talking about this."218 The President said, “[w]hat do you mean? Flynn met with the Russians. That was the problem. I fired Flynn. It’s over.”219 Christie recalled responding that based on his experience both as a prosecutor and as someone who had been investigated, firing Flynn would not end the investigation.220 Christie said there was no way to make an investigation shorter, but a lot of ways to make it longer.221 The President asked Christie what he meant, and Christie told the President not to talk about the investigation even if he was210 Priebus 1/18/18 302, at 9.211 Priebus 1/18/18 302, at 9; Flynn 11/17/17 302, at 10.212 Priebus 1/18/18 302, at 9; Flynn 11/17/17 302, at 10.213 SCR004_00600 (2/16/17 Email, Burnham to Donaldson).214 Sean Spicer, White House Daily Briefing, C-SPAN (Feb. 14, 2017). After Flynn pleaded guilty to violating 18 U.S.C. § 1001 in December 2017, the President tweeted, “I had to fire General Flynn because he lied to the Vice President and the FBI.” @realDonaldTrump 12/2/17 (12:14 p.m. ET) Tweet. The next day, the President’s personal counsel told the press that he had drafted the tweet. Maegan Vazquez et al., Trump’s lawyer says he was behind President’s tweet about firing Flynn, CNN (Dec. 3, 2017).215Christie 2/13/19 302, at 2-3; SCR012b_000022 (President’s Daily Diary, 2/14/17).216 Christie 2/13/19 302, at 3.217 Christie 2/13/19 302, at 3.218 Christie 2/13/19 302, at 3. Christie said he thought when the President said “the Russia thing” he was referring to not just the investigations but also press coverage about Russia. Christie thought the more important thing was that there was an investigation. Christie 2/13/19 302, at 4.219 Christie 2/13/19 302, at 3.220 Christie 2/13/19 302, at 3.221 Christie 2/13/19 302, at 3.Vol. 2, Page 38frustrated at times.222 Christie also told the President that he would never be able to get rid of Flynn, “like gum on the bottom of your shoe."223Towards the end of the lunch, the President brought up Comey and asked if Christie was still friendly with him.224 Christie said he was.225 The President told Christie to call Comey and tell him that the President “really like[s] him. Tell him he’s part of the team."226 At the end of the lunch, the President repeated his request that Christie reach out to Comey.227 Christie had no intention of complying with the President’s request that he contact Comey.228 He thought the President’s request was “nonsensical” and Christie did not want to put Comey in the position of having to receive such a phone call.229 Christie thought it would have been uncomfortable to pass on that message.230At 4 p.m. that afternoon, the President met with Comey, Sessions, and other officials for a homeland security briefing231 At the end of the briefing, the President dismissed the other attendees and stated that he wanted to speak to Comey alone.232 Sessions and senior advisor to the President Jared Kushner remained in the Oval Office as other participants left, but the President222 Christie 2/13/19 302, at 3-4.223 Christie 2/13/19 302, at 3. Christie also recalled that during the lunch, Flynn called Kushner, who was at the lunch, and complained about what Spicer had said about Flynn in his press briefing that day. Kushner told Flynn words to the effect of, “You know the President respects you. The President cares about you. I’ll get the President to send out a positive tweet about you later.” Kushner looked at the President when he mentioned the tweet, and the President nodded his assent. Christie 2/13/19 302, at 3. Flynn recalled getting upset at Spicer’s comments in the press conference and calling Kushner to say he did not appreciate the comments. Flynn 1/19/18 302, at 9.224 Christie 2/13/19 302, at 4.225 Christie 2/13/19 302, at 4.226 Christie 2/13/19 302, at 4-5.227 Christie 2/13/19 302, at 5.228 Christie 2/13/19 302, at 5.229 Christie 2/13/19 302, at 5.230 Christie 2/13/19 302, at 5.231 SCR0126 000022 (President’s Daily Diary, 2/14/17); Comey 11/15/17 302, at 9.232 Comey 11/15/17 302, at 10; 2/14/17 Comey Memorandum, at 1; Hearing on Russian Election Interference Before the Senate Select Intelligence Committee, 115th Cong. (June 8, 2017) (Statement for the Record of James B. Comey, former Director of the FBI, at 4); Priebus 10/13/17 302, at 18 (confirming that everyone was shooed out “like Comey said” in his June testimony).Vol. 2, Page 39excused them, repeating that he wanted to speak only with Comey.233 At some point after others had left the Oval Office, Priebus opened the door, but the President sent him away.234According to Comey’s account of the meeting, once they were alone, the President began the conversation by saying, “I want to talk about Mike Flynn."235 The President stated that Flynn had not done anything wrong in speaking with the Russians, but had to be terminated because he had misled the Vice President.236 The conversation turned to the topic of leaks of classified information, but the President returned to Flynn, saying “he is a good guy and has been through a lot.237 The President stated, “I hope you can see your way clear to letting this go, to letting Flynn go. He is a good guy. I hope you can let this go."238 Comey agreed that Flynn “is a good guy,” but did not commit to ending the investigation of Flynn.239Comey testified under oath that he took the President’s statement “as a direction” because of the President’s position and the circumstances of the one-on-one meeting240233 Comey 11/15/17 302, at 10; Comey 2/14/17 Memorandum, at 1; Hearing on Russian Election Interference Before the Senate Select Intelligence Committee, 115th Cong. (June 8, 2017) (Statement for the Record of James B. Comey, former Director of the FBI, at 4). Sessions recalled that the President asked to speak to Comey alone and that Sessions was one of the last to leave the room; he described Comey’s testimony about the events leading up to the private meeting with the President as “pretty accurate.” Sessions 1/17/18 302, at 6. Kushner had no recollection of whether the President asked Comey to stay behind. Kushner 4/11/18 302, at 24.234 Comey 2/14/17 Memorandum, at 2; Priebus 10/13/17 302, at 18.235 Comey 11/15/17 302, at 10; Comey 2/14/17 Memorandum, at 1; Hearing on Russian Election Interference Before the Senate Select Intelligence Committee, 115th Cong. (June 8, 2017) (Statement for the Record of James B. Comey, former Director of the FBI, at 4).236 Comey 2/14/17 Memorandum, at 1; Hearing on Russian Election Interference Before the Senate Select Intelligence Committee, 115th Cong. (June 8, 2017) (Statement for the Record of James B. Comey, former Director of the FBI, at 5).237 Comey 11/15/17 302, at 10; Comey 2/14/17 Memorandum, at 2, Hearing on Russian Election Interference Before the Senate Select Intelligence Committee, 115th Cong. (June 8, 2017) (Statement for the Record of James B. Comey, former Director of the FBI, at 5).238 Hearing on Russian Election Interference Before the Senate Select Intelligence Committee, 115th Cong. (June 8, 2017) (Statement for the Record of James B. Comey, former Director of the FBI, at 5); Comey 2/14/17 Memorandum, at 2. Comey said he was highly confident that the words in quotations in his Memorandum documenting this meeting were the exact words used by the President. He said he knew from the outset of the meeting that he was about to have a conversation of consequence, and he remembered the words used by the President and wrote them down soon after the meeting. Comey 11/15/17 302, at 10-11.239 Comey 11/15/17 302, at 10; Comey 2/14/17 Memorandum, at 2.240 Hearing on Russian Election Interference Before the Senate Select Intelligence Committee, 115th Cong. (June 8, 2017) (CQ Cong. Transcripts, at 31) (testimony of James B. Comey, former Director of the FBI). Comey further stated, “I mean, this is the president of the United States, with me alone, saying, “I hope this. I took it as, this is what he wants me to do.” Id.; see also Comey 11/15/17 302, at 10 (Comey took the statement as an order to shut down the Flynn investigation).Vol. 2, Page 40Shortly after meeting with the President, Comey began drafting a memorandum documenting their conversation.241 Comey also met with his senior leadership team to discuss the President’s request, and they agreed not to inform FBI officials working on the Flynn case of the President’s statements so the officials would not be influenced by the request.242 Comey also asked for a meeting with Sessions and requested that Sessions not leave Comey alone with the President again.243After Flynn was forced to resign, the press raised questions about why the President waited more than two weeks after the DOJ notification to remove Flynn and whether the President had known about Flynn’s contacts with Kislyak before the DOJ notification.244 The press also continued to raise questions about connections between Russia and the President’s campaign.245 On February 15, 2017, the President told reporters, “General Flynn is a wonderful man. I think he’s been treated very, very unfairly by the media."246 On February 16, 2017, the President held241 Comey 11/15/17 302, at 11; Hearing on Russian Election Interference Before the Senate Select Intelligence Committee, 115th Cong. (June 8, 2017) (Statement for the record of James B. Comey, former Director of the FBI, at 5).242 Comey 11/15/17 302, at 11; Rybicki 6/9/17 302, at 4; Rybicki 6/22/17 302, at 1; Hearing on Russian Election Interference Before the Senate Select Intelligence Committee, 115th Cong. (June 8, 2017) (Statement for the record of James B. Comey, former Director of the FBI, at 5-6).243 Comey 11/15/17 302, at 11; Rybicki 6/9/17 302, at 4-5; Rybicki 6/22/17 302, at 1-2; Sessions 1/17/18 302, at 6 (confirming that later in the week following Comey’s one-on-one meeting with the President in the Oval Office, Comey told the Attorney General that he did not want to be alone with the President); Hunt 2/1/18 302, at 6 (within days of the February 14 Oval Office meeting, Comey told Sessions he did not think it was appropriate for the FBI Director to meet alone with the President); Rybicki 11/21/18 302, at 4 (Rybicki helped to schedule the meeting with Sessions because Comey wanted to talk about his concerns about meeting with the President alone); Hearing on Russian Election Interference Before the Senate Select Intelligence Committee, 115th Cong. (June 8, 2017) (Statement for the record of James B. Comey, former Director of the FBI, at 6).244 See, e.g., Sean Spicer, White House Daily Briefing, C-SPAN (Feb. 14, 2017) (questions from the press included, “if [the President] was notified 17 days ago that Flynn had misled the Vice President, other officials here, and that he was a potential threat to blackmail by the Russians, why would he be kept on for almost three weeks?” and “Did the President instruct [Flynn] to talk about sanctions with the [Russian ambassador]?”). Priebus recalled that the President initially equivocated on whether to fire Flynn because it would generate negative press to lose his National Security Advisor so early in his term. Priebus 1/18/18 302, at 8.245 E.g., Sean Sullivan et al., Senators from both parties pledge to deepen probe of Russia and the 2016 election, Washington Post (Feb. 14, 2017); Aaron Blake, 5 times Donald Trump’s team denied contact with Russia, Washington Post (Feb. 15, 2017); Oren Dorell, Donald Trump’s ties to Russia go back 30 years, USA Today (Feb. 15, 2017); Pamela Brown et al., Trump aides were in constant touch with senior Russian officials during campaign, CNN (Feb. 15, 2017); Austin Wright, Comey briefs senators amid furor over Trump-Russia ties, Politico (Feb. 17, 2017); Megan Twohey &amp; Scott Shane, A Back-Channel Plan for Ukraine and Russia, Courtesy of Trump Associates, New York Times (Feb. 19, 2017).246 Remarks by President Trump and Prime Minister Netanyahu of Israel in Joint Press Conference, White House (Feb. 15, 2017).Vol. 2, Page 41a press conference and said that he removed Flynn because Flynn “didn’t tell the Vice President of the United States the facts, and then he didn’t remember. And that just wasn’t acceptable to me."247 The President said he did not direct Flynn to discuss sanctions with Kislyak, but “it certainly would have been okay with me if he did. I would have directed him to do it if I thought he wasn’t doing it. I didn’t direct him, but I would have directed him because that’s his job.”248 In listing the reasons for terminating Flynn, the President did not say that Flynn had lied to him.249The President also denied having any connection to Russia, stating, “I have nothing to do with Russia. I told you, I have no deals there. I have no anything."250 The President also said he “had nothing to do with” WikiLeaks’s publication of information hacked from the Clinton campaign.251On February 22, 2017, Priebus and Bannon told McFarland that the President wanted her to resign as Deputy National Security Advisor, but they suggested to her that the Administration could make her the ambassador to Singapore.252 The next day, the President asked Priebus to have McFarland draft an internal email that would confirm that the President did not direct Flynn to call the Russian Ambassador about sanctions.253 Priebus said he told the President he would only direct McFarland to write such a letter if she were comfortable with it.254 Priebus called McFarland into his office to convey the President’s request that she memorialize in writing that the President did not direct Flynn to talk to Kislyak.255 McFarland told Priebus she did not know whether the President had directed Flynn to talk to Kislyak about sanctions, and she declined to say yes or no247 Remarks by President Trump in Press Conference, White House (Feb. 16, 2017).248 Remarks by President Trump in Press Conference, White House (Feb. 16, 2017). The President also said that Flynn’s conduct “wasn’t wrong - what he did in terms of the information he saw.” The President said that Flynn was just “doing the job,” and “if anything, he did something right.”249 Remarks by President Trump in Press Conference, White House (Feb. 16, 2017); Priebus 1/18/18 302, at 9.250 Remarks by President Trump in Press Conference, White House (Feb. 16, 2017).251 Remarks by President Trump in Press Conference, White House (Feb. 16, 2017).252 KTMF_00000047 (McFarland 2/26/17 Memorandum for the Record); McFarland 12/22/17 302, at 16-17.253 See Priebus 1/18/18 302, at 11; see also KTMF_00000048 (McFarland 2/26/17 Memorandum for the Record); McFarland 12/22/17 302, at 17.254 Priebus 1/18/18 302, at 11.255 KTMF_00000048 (McFarland 2/26/17 Memorandum for the Record); McFarland 12/22/17 302, at 17.Vol. 2, Page 42to the request.256 Priebus understood that McFarland was not comfortable with the President’s request, and he recommended that she talk to attorneys in the White House Counsel’s Office.257McFarland then reached out to Eisenberg.258 McFarland told him that she had been fired from her job as Deputy National Security Advisor and offered the ambassadorship in Singapore but that the President and Priebus wanted a letter from her denying that the President directed Flynn to discuss sanctions with Kislyak.259 Eisenberg advised McFarland not to write the requested letter.260 As documented by McFarland in a contemporaneous “Memorandum for the Record” that she wrote because she was concerned by the President’s request: “Eisenberg ... thought the requested email and letter would be a bad idea – from my side because the email would be awkward. Why would I be emailing Priebus to make a statement for the record? But it would also be a bad idea for the President because it looked as if my ambassadorial appointment was in some way a quid pro quo."261 Later that evening, Priebus stopped by McFarland’s office and told her not to write the email and to forget he even mentioned it.262Around the same time, the President asked Priebus to reach out to Flynn and let him know that the President still cared about him.263 Priebus called Flynn and said that he was checking in and that Flynn was an American hero.264 Priebus thought the President did not want Flynn saying bad things about him.265On March 31, 2017, following news that Flynn had offered to testify before the FBI and congressional investigators in exchange for immunity, the President tweeted, “Mike Flynn should ask for immunity in that this is a witch hunt (excuse for big election loss), by media &amp; Dems, of256 KTMF 00000047 (McFarland 2/26/17 Memorandum for the Record) (“I said I did not know whether he did or didn’t, but was in Maralago the week between Christmas and New Year’s (while Flynn was on vacation in Carribean) and I was not aware of any Flynn-Trump, or Trump-Russian phone calls”); McFarland 12/22/17 302, at 17.257 Priebus 1/18/18 302, at 11.258 McFarland 12/22/17 302, at 17.259 McFarland 12/22/17 302, at 17.260 KTMF 00000048 (McFarland 2/26/17 Memorandum for the Record); McFarland 12/22/17 302, at 17.261 KTMF_00000048 (McFarland 2/26/17 Memorandum for the Record); see McFarland 12/22/17 302, at 17.262 McFarland 12/22/17 302, at 17; KTMF 00000048 (McFarland 2/26/17 Memorandum for the Record).263 Priebus 1/18/18 302, at 9.264 Priebus 1/18/18 302, at 9; Flynn 1/19/18 302, at 9.265 Priebus 1/18/18 302, at 9-10.Vol. 2, Page 43historic proportion!"266 In late March or early April, the President asked McFarland to pass a message to Flynn telling him the President felt bad for him and that he should stay strong267In analyzing the President’s conduct related to the Flynn investigation, the following evidence is relevant to the elements of obstruction of justice:a. Obstructive act. According to Comey’s account of his February 14, 2017 meeting in the Oval Office, the President told him, “I hope you can see your way clear to letting this go, to letting Flynn go.... I hope you can let this go.” In analyzing whether these statements constitute an obstructive act, a threshold question is whether Comey’s account of the interaction is accurate, and, if so, whether the President’s statements had the tendency to impede the administration of justice by shutting down an inquiry that could result in a grand jury investigation and a criminal charge.After Comey’s account of the President’s request to “let[] Flynn go” became public, the President publicly disputed several aspects of the story. The President told the New York Times that he did not “shoo other people out of the room” when he talked to Comey and that he did not remember having a one-on-one conversation with Comey.268 The President also publicly denied that he had asked Comey to “let[] Flynn go” or otherwise communicated that Comey should drop the investigation of Flynn.269 In private, the President denied aspects of Comey’s account to White House advisors, but acknowledged to Priebus that he brought Flynn up in the meeting with Comey and stated that Flynn was a good guy.279 Despite those denials, substantial evidence corroborates Comey’s account.266 @realDonaldTrump 3/31/17 (7:04 a.m. ET) Tweet; see Shane Harris at al., Mike Flynn Offers to Testify in Exchange for Immunity, Wall Street Journal (Mar. 30, 2017).267 McFarland 12/22/17 302, at 18.268 Excerpts From The Times’s Interview With Trump, New York Times (July 19, 2017). Hicks recalled that the President told her he had never asked Comey to stay behind in his office. Hicks 12/8/17 302, at 12.269 In a statement on May 16, 2017, the White House said: “While the President has repeatedly expressed his view that General Flynn is a decent man who served and protected our country, the President has never asked Mr. Comey or anyone else to end any investigation, including any investigation involving General Flynn. ... This is not a truthful or accurate portrayal of the conversation between the President and Mr. Comey.” See Michael S. Schmidt, Comey Memorandum Says Trump Asked Him to End Flynn Investigation, New York Times (May 16, 2017) (quoting White House statement); @realDonald Trump 12/3/17 (6:15 a.m. ET) Tweet (“I never asked Comey to stop investigating Flynn. Just more Fake News covering another Comey lie!”).270 Priebus recalled that the President acknowledged telling Comey that Flynn was a good guy and he hoped “everything worked out for him.” Priebus 10/13/17 302, at 19. McGahn recalled that the President denied saying to Comey that he hoped Comey would let Flynn go, but added that he was “allowed to hope.” The President told McGahn he did not think he had crossed any lines. McGahn 12/14/17 302, at 8.Vol. 2, Page 44First, Comey wrote a detailed memorandum of his encounter with the President on the same day it occurred. Comey also told senior FBI officials about the meeting with the President that day, and their recollections of what Comey told them at the time are consistent with Comey’s account.271Second, Comey provided testimony about the President’s request that he “let[] Flynn go” under oath in congressional proceedings and in interviews with federal investigators subject to penalties for lying under 18 U.S.C. § 1001. Comey’s recollections of the encounter have remained consistent over time.Third, the objective, corroborated circumstances of how the one-on-one meeting came to occur support Comey’s description of the event. Comey recalled that the President cleared the room to speak with Comey alone after a homeland security briefing in the Oval Office, that Kushner and Sessions lingered and had to be shooed out by the President, and that Priebus briefly opened the door during the meeting, prompting the President to wave him away. While the President has publicly denied those details, other Administration officials who were present have confirmed Comey’s account of how he ended up in a one-on-one meeting with the President.272 And the President acknowledged to Priebus and McGahn that he in fact spoke to Comey about Flynn in their one-on-one meeting.Fourth, the President’s decision to clear the room and, in particular, to exclude the Attorney General from the meeting signals that the President wanted to be alone with Comey, which is consistent with the delivery of a message of the type that Comey recalls, rather than a more innocuous conversation that could have occurred in the presence of the Attorney General.Finally, Comey’s reaction to the President’s statements is consistent with the President having asked him to “let[] Flynn go.” Comey met with the FBI leadership team, which agreed to keep the President’s statements closely held and not to inform the team working on the Flynn investigation so that they would not be influenced by the President’s request. Comey also promptly met with the Attorney General to ask him not to be left alone with the President again, an account verified by Sessions, FBI Chief of Staff James Rybicki, and Jody Hunt, who was then the Attorney General’s chief of staff.A second question is whether the President’s statements, which were not phrased as a direct order to Comey, could impede or interfere with the FBI’s investigation of Flynn. While the President said he “hope[d]” Comey could “let[] Flynn go,” rather than affirmatively directing him to do so, the circumstances of the conversation show that the President was asking Comey to close the FBI’s investigation into Flynn. First, the President arranged the meeting with Comey so that they would be alone and purposely excluded the Attorney General, which suggests that the President meant to make a request to Comey that he did not want anyone else to hear. Second, because the President is the head of the Executive Branch, when he says that he “hopes” a subordinate will do something, it is reasonable to expect that the subordinate will do what the President wants. Indeed, the President repeated a version of “let this go” three times, and Comey271 Rybicki 11/21/18 302, at 4; McCabe 8/17/17 302, at 13-14,272See Priebus 10/13/17 302, at 18; Sessions 1/17/18 302, at 6.Vol. 2, Page 45testified that he understood the President’s statements as a directive, which is corroborated by the way Comey reacted at the time.b. Nexus to a proceeding. To establish a nexus to a proceeding, it would be necessary to show that the President could reasonably foresee and actually contemplated that the investigation of Flynn was likely to lead to a grand jury investigation or prosecution.At the time of the President’s one-on-one meeting with Comey, no grand jury subpoenas had been issued as part of the FBI’s investigation into Flynn. But Flynn’s lies to the FBI violated federal criminal law, ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■, and resulted in Flynn’s prosecution for violating 18 U.S.C. § 1001. By the time the President spoke to Comey about Flynn, DOJ officials had informed McGahn, who informed the President, that Flynn’s statements to senior White House officials about his contacts with Kislyak were not true and that Flynn had told the same version of events to the FBI. McGahn also informed the President that Flynn’s conduct could violate 18 U.S.C. § 1001. After the Vice President and senior White House officials reviewed the underlying information about Flynn’s calls on February 10, 2017, they believed that Flynn could not have forgotten his conversations with Kislyak and concluded that he had been lying. In addition, the President’s instruction to the FBI Director to “let[] Flynn go” suggests his awareness that Flynn could face criminal exposure for his conduct and was at risk of prosecution.c. Intent. As part of our investigation, we examined whether the President had a personal stake in the outcome of an investigation into Flynn-for example, whether the President was aware of Flynn’s communications with Kislyak close in time to when they occurred, such that the President knew that Flynn had lied to senior White House officials and that those lies had been passed on to the public. Some evidence suggests that the President knew about the existence and content of Flynn’s calls when they occurred, but the evidence is inconclusive and could not be relied upon to establish the President’s knowledge. In advance of Flynn’s initial call with Kislyak, the President attended a meeting where the sanctions were discussed and an advisor may have mentioned that Flynn was scheduled to talk to Kislyak. Flynn told McFarland about the substance of his calls with Kislyak and said they may have made a difference in Russia’s response, and Flynn recalled talking to Bannon in early January 2017 about how they had successfully “stopped the train on Russia’s response” to the sanctions. It would have been reasonable for Flynn to have wanted the President to know of his communications with Kislyak because Kislyak told Flynn his request had been received at the highest levels in Russia and that Russia had chosen not to retaliate in response to the request, and the President was pleased by the Russian response, calling it a “[g]reat move.” And the President never said publicly or internally that Flynn had lied to him about the calls with Kislyak.But McFarland did not recall providing the President-Elect with Flynn’s read-out of his calls with Kislyak, and Flynn does not have a specific recollection of telling the President-Elect directly about the calls. Bannon also said he did not recall hearing about the calls from Flynn. And in February 2017, the President asked Flynn what was discussed on the calls and whether he had lied to the Vice President, suggesting that he did not already know. Our investigation accordingly did not produce evidence that established that the President knew about Flynn’s discussions of sanctions before the Department of Justice notified the White House of those discussions in late January 2017. The evidence also does not establish that Flynn otherwiseVol. 2, Page 46possessed information damaging to the President that would give the President a personal incentive to end the FBI’s inquiry into Flynn’s conduct.Evidence does establish that the President connected the Flynn investigation to the FBI’s broader Russia investigation and that he believed, as he told Christie, that terminating Flynn would end “the whole Russia thing.” Flynn’s firing occurred at a time when the media and Congress were raising questions about Russia’s interference in the election and whether members of the President’s campaign had colluded with Russia. Multiple witnesses recalled that the President viewed the Russia investigations as a challenge to the legitimacy of his election. The President paid careful attention to negative coverage of Flynn and reacted with annoyance and anger when the story broke disclosing that Flynn had discussed sanctions with Kislyak. Just hours before meeting one-on-one with Comey, the President told Christie that firing Flynn would put an end to the Russia inquiries. And after Christie pushed back, telling the President that firing Flynn would not end the Russia investigation, the President asked Christie to reach out to Comey and convey that the President liked him and he was part of the team.” That afternoon, the President cleared the room and asked Comey to “let[] Flynn go."We also sought evidence relevant to assessing whether the President’s direction to Comey was motivated by sympathy towards Flynn. In public statements the President repeatedly described Flynn as a good person who had been harmed by the Russia investigation, and the President directed advisors to reach out to Flynn to tell him the President “care[d]” about him and felt bad for him. At the same time, multiple senior advisors, including Bannon, Priebus, and Hicks, said that the President had become unhappy with Flynn well before Flynn was forced to resign and that the President was frequently irritated with Flynn. Priebus said he believed the President’s initial reluctance to fire Flynn stemmed not from personal regard, but from concern about the negative press that would be generated by firing the National Security Advisor so early in the Administration. And Priebus indicated that the President’s post-firing expressions of support for Flynn were motivated by the President’s desire to keep Flynn from saying negative things about him.The way in which the President communicated the request to Comey also is relevant to understanding the President’s intent. When the President first learned about the FBI investigation into Flynn, he told McGahn, Bannon, and Priebus not to discuss the matter with anyone else in the White House. The next day, the President invited Comey for a one-on-one dinner against the advice of an aide who recommended that other White House officials also attend. At the dinner, the President asked Comey for “loyalty” and, at a different point in the conversation, mentioned that Flynn had judgment issues. When the President met with Comey the day after Flynn’s termination—shortly after being told by Christie that firing Flynn would not end the Russia investigation—the President cleared the room, even excluding the Attorney General, so that he could again speak to Comey alone. The President’s decision to meet one-on-one with Comey contravened the advice of the White House Counsel that the President should not communicate directly with the Department of Justice to avoid any appearance of interfering in law enforcement activities. And the President later denied that he cleared the room and asked Comey to “let[] Flynn go”—a denial that would have been unnecessary if he believed his request was a proper exercise of prosecutorial discretion.Vol. 2, Page 47Finally, the President’s effort to have McFarland write an internal email denying that the President had directed Flynn to discuss sanctions with Kislyak highlights the President’s concern about being associated with Flynn’s conduct. The evidence does not establish that the President was trying to have McFarland lie. The President’s request, however, was sufficiently irregular that McFarland—who did not know the full extent of Flynn’s communications with the President and thus could not make the representation the President wanted—felt the need to draft an internal memorandum documenting the President’s request, and Eisenberg was concerned that the request would look like a quid pro quo in exchange for an ambassadorship.Overview In early March 2017, the President learned that Sessions was considering recusing from the Russia investigation and tried to prevent the recusal. After Sessions announced his recusal on March 2, the President expressed anger at Sessions for the decision and then privately asked Sessions to “unrecuse.” On March 20, 2017, Comey publicly disclosed the existence of the FBI’s Russia investigation. In the days that followed, the President contacted Comey and other intelligence agency leaders and asked them to push back publicly on the suggestion that the President had any connection to the Russian election-interference effort in order to “lift the cloud” of the ongoing investigation.In late February 2017, the Department of Justice began an internal analysis of whether Sessions should recuse from the Russia investigation based on his role in the 2016 Trump Campaign.273 On March 1, 2017, the press reported that, in his January confirmation hearing to become Attorney General, Senator Sessions had not disclosed two meetings he had with Russian Ambassador Kislyak before the presidential election, leading to congressional calls for Sessions to recuse or for a special counsel to investigate Russia’s interference in the presidential election.274Also on March 1, the President called Comey and said he wanted to check in and see how Comey was doing.275 According to an email Comey sent to his chief of staff after the call, the President “talked about Sessions a bit,” said that he had heard Comey was “doing great,” and said that he hoped Comey would come by to say hello when he was at the White House.276 Comey273 Sessions 1/17/18 302, at 1; Hunt 2/1/18 302, at 3.274 E.g., Adam Entous et al., Sessions met with Russian envoy twice last year, encounters he later did not disclose, Washington Post (Mar. 1, 2017).275 3/1/17 Email, Comey to Rybicki; SCR012b_000030 (President’s Daily Diary, 3/1/17, reflecting call with Comey at 11:55 am.)276 3/1/17 Email, Comey to Rybicki; see Hearing on Russian Election Interference Before the Senate Select Intelligence Committee, 115th Cong. (June 8, 2017) (CQ Cong. Transcripts, at 86) (testimony 48 of James B. Comey, former Director of the FBI) (“[H]e called me one day.... [H]e just called to check in and tell me I was doing an awesome job, and wanted to see how I was doing.”).Vol. 2, Page 48interpreted the call as an effort by the President to “pull [him) in,” but he did not perceive the call as an attempt by the President to find out what Comey was doing with the Flynn investigation.277The next morning, the President called McGahn and urged him to contact Sessions to tell him not to recuse himself from the Russia investigation.278 McGahn understood the President to be concerned that a recusal would make Sessions look guilty for omitting details in his confirmation hearing; leave the President unprotected from an investigation that could hobble the presidency and derail his policy objectives; and detract from favorable press coverage of a Presidential Address to Congress the President had delivered earlier in the week.279 McGahn reached out to Sessions and reported that the President was not happy about the possibility of recusal.280 Sessions replied that he intended to follow the rules on recusal.281 McGahn reported back to the President about the call with Sessions, and the President reiterated that he did not want Sessions to recuse.282 Throughout the day, McGahn continued trying on behalf of the President to avert Sessions’s recusal by speaking to Sessions’s personal counsel, Sessions’s chief of staff, and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, and by contacting Sessions himself two more times.283 Sessions recalled that other White House advisors also called him that day to argue against his recusal.284That afternoon, Sessions announced his decision to recuse “from any existing or future investigations of any matters related in any way to the campaigns for President of the United States.":285 Sessions believed the decision to recuse was not a close call, given the applicable277 Comey 11/15/17 302, at 17-18.278 McGahn 11/30/17 302, at 16.279 McGahn 11/30/17 302, at 16-17; see SC_AD_00123 (Donaldson 3/2/17 Notes) ("Just in the middle of another Russia Fiasco.”).280 Sessions 1/17/18 302, at 3.281 McGahn 11/30/17 302, at 17.282 McGahn 11/30/17 302, at 17.283 McGahn 11/30/17 302, at 18-19; Sessions 1/17/18 302, at 3; Hunt 2/1/18 302, at 4; Donaldson 11/6/17 302, at 8-10; see Hunt-000017; SC_AD_00121 (Donaldson 3/2/17 Notes).284 Sessions 1/17/18 302, at 3.285Attorney General Sessions Statement on Recusal, Department of Justice Press Release (Mar. 2, 2017) (“During the course of the last several weeks, I have met with the relevant senior career Department officials to discuss whether I should recuse myself from any matters arising from the campaigns for President of the United States. Having concluded those meetings today, I have decided to recuse myself from any existing or future investigations of any matters related in any way to the campaigns for President of the United States.”). At the time of Sessions’s recusal, Dana Boente, then the Acting Deputy Attorney General and U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia, became the Acting Attorney General for campaign-related matters pursuant to an executive order specifying the order of succession at the Department of Justice. Id. (“Consistent with the succession order for the Department of Justice, ... Dana Boente shall act as and perform the functions of the Attorney General with respect to any matters from which I have recused myself to the extent they exist.”); see Exec. Order No. 13775, 82 Fed. Reg. 10697 (Feb. 14, 2017).Vol. 2, Page 49language in the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), which Sessions considered to be clear and decisive.286 Sessions thought that any argument that the CFR did not apply to him was “very thin."287 Sessions got the impression, based on calls he received from White House officials, that the President was very upset with him and did not think he had done his duty as Attorney General.288Shortly after Sessions announced his recusal, the White House Counsel’s Office directed that Sessions should not be contacted about the matter.289 Internal White House Counsel’s Office notes from March 2, 2017, state “No contact w/Sessions” and “No comms/Serious concerns about obstruction.”290On March 3, the day after Sessions’s recusal, McGahn was called into the Oval Office.291 Other advisors were there, including Priebus and Bannon.292 The President opened the conversation by saying, “I don’t have a lawyer.293 The President expressed anger at McGahn about the recusal and brought up Roy Cohn, stating that he wished Cohn was his attorney.294 McGahn interpreted this comment as directed at him, suggesting that Cohn would fight for the286 Sessions 1/17/18 302, at 1-2. 28 C.F.R. § 45.2 provides that “no employee shall participate in a criminal investigation or prosecution if he has a personal or political relationship with ... [a]ny person or organization substantially involved in the conduct that is the subject of the investigation or prosecution,” and defines “political relationship” as “a close identification with an elected official, a candidate (whether or not successful) for elective, public office, a political party, or a campaign organization, arising from service as a principal adviser thereto or a principal official thereof.”287Sessions 1/17/18 302, at 2.288 Sessions 1/17/18 302, at 3.289 Donaldson 11/6/17 302, at 11;SC_AD_00123 (Donaldson 3/2/17 Notes). It is not clear whether the President was aware of the White House Counsel’s Office direction not to contact Sessions about his recusal.290 SC_AD_00123 (Donaldson 3/2/17 Notes). McGahn said he believed the note “No comms / Serious concerns about obstruction” may have referred to concerns McGahn had about the press team saying “crazy things” and trying to spin Sessions’s recusal in a way that would raise concerns about obstruction. McGahn 11/30/17 302, at 19. Donaldson recalled that “No comms” referred to the order that no one should contact Sessions. Donaldson 11/6/17 302, at 11.291 McGahn 12/12/17 302, at 2.292 McGahn 12/12/17 302, at 2.293 McGahn 12/12/17 302, at 2.294 McGahn 12/12/17 302, at 2. Cohn had previously served as a lawyer for the President during his career as a private businessman. Priebus recalled that when the President talked about Cohn, he said Cohn would win cases for him that had no chance, and that Cohn had done incredible things for him. Priebus 4/3/18 302, at 5. Bannon recalled the President describing Cohn as a winner and a fixer, someone who got things done. Bannon 2/14/18 302, at 6.Vol. 2, Page 50President whereas McGahn would not.295 The President wanted McGahn to talk to Sessions about the recusal, but McGahn told the President that DOJ ethics officials had weighed in on Sessions’s decision to recuse.296 The President then brought up former Attorneys General Robert Kennedy and Eric Holder and said that they had protected their presidents.297 The President also pushed back on the DOJ contacts policy, and said words to the effect of, “You’re telling me that Bobby and Jack didn’t talk about investigations? Or Obama didn’t tell Eric Holder who to investigate?”298 Bannon recalled that the President was as mad as Bannon had ever seen him and that he screamed at McGahn about how weak Sessions was.299 Bannon recalled telling the President that Sessions’s recusal was not a surprise and that before the inauguration they had discussed that Sessions would have to recuse from campaign-related investigations because of his work on the Trump Campaign.300That weekend, Sessions and McGahn flew to Mar-a-Lago to meet with the President.301 Sessions recalled that the President pulled him aside to speak to him alone and suggested that Sessions should “unrecuse” from the Russia investigation.302 The President contrasted Sessions with Attorneys General Holder and Kennedy, who had developed a strategy to help their presidents where Sessions had not.303 Sessions said he had the impression that the President feared that the investigation could spin out of control and disrupt his ability to govern, which Sessions could have helped avert if he were still overseeing it.304 On March 5, 2017, the White House Counsel’s Office was informed that the FBI was asking for transition-period records relating to Flynn-indicating that the FBI was still actively investigating him.305 On March 6, the President told advisors he wanted to call the Acting Attorney295 McGahn 12/12/17 302, at 2.296 McGahn 12/12/17 302, at 2.297 McGahn 12/12/17 302, at 3. Bannon said the President saw Robert Kennedy and Eric Holder as Attorneys General who protected the presidents they served. The President thought Holder always stood up for President Obama and even took a contempt charge for him, and Robert Kennedy always had his brother’s back. Bannon 2/14/18 302, at 5. Priebus recalled that the President said he had been told his entire life he needed to have a great lawyer, a “bulldog,” and added that Holder had been willing to take a contempt-of-Congress charge for President Obama. Priebus 4/3/18 302, at 5.298 McGahn 12/12/17 302, at 3.299 Bannon 2/14/18 302, at 5.300 Bannon 2/14/18 302, at 5.301 Sessions 1/17/18 302, at 3; Hunt 2/1/18 302, at 5; McGahn 12/12/17 302, at 3.302 Sessions 1/17/18 302, at 3-4.303 Sessions 1/17/18 302, at 3-4304 Sessions 1/17/18 302, at 3-4. Hicks recalled that after Sessions recused, the President was angry and scolded Sessions in her presence, but she could not remember exactly when that conversation occurred. Hicks 12/8/17 302, at 13.305 SC_AD_000137 (Donaldson 3/5/17 Notes); see Donaldson 11/6/17 302, at 13.Vol. 2, Page 51General to find out whether the White House or the President was being investigated, although it is not clear whether the President knew at that time of the FBI’s recent request concerning Flynn.306On March 9, 2017, Comey briefed the “Gang of Eight” congressional leaders about the FBI’s investigation of Russian interference, including an identification of the principal U.S. subjects of the investigation.307 Although it is unclear whether the President knew of that briefing at the time, notes taken by Annie Donaldson, then McGahn’s chief of staff, on March 12, 2017, state, “POTUS in panic/chaos ... Need binders to put in front of POTUS. (1) All things related to Russia."308 The week after Comey’s briefing, the White House Counsel’s Office was in contact with SSCI Chairman Senator Richard Burr about the Russia investigations and appears to have received information about the status of the FBI investigation.309On March 20, 2017, Comey was scheduled to testify before HPSCI.310 In advance of Comey’s testimony, congressional officials made clear that they wanted Comey to provide information about the ongoing FBI investigation.311 Dana Boente, who at that time was the Acting Attorney General for the Russia investigation, authorized Comey to confirm the existence of the Russia investigation and agreed that Comey should decline to comment on whether any particular individuals, including the President, were being investigated.312306 Donaldson 11/6/17 302, at 14; see SC_AD_000168 (Donaldson 3/6/17 Notes) (“POTUS wants to call Dana [then the Acting Attorney General for campaign-related investigations] / Is investigation/No / We know something on Flynn / GSA got contacted by FBI / There’s something hot’).307 Comey 11/15/17 302, at 13-14; SNS-Classified-0000140-44 (3/8/17 Email, Gauhar to Page et al.).308 SC AD_00188 (Donaldson 3/12/18 Notes). Donaldson said she was not part of the conversation that led to these notes, and must have been told about it from others. Donaldson 11/6/17 302, at 13.309 Donaldson 11/6/17 302, at 14-15. On March 16, 2017, the White House Counsel’s Office was briefed by Senator Burr on the existence of “4-5 targets.” Donaldson 11/6/17 302, at 15. The “targets” were identified in notes taken by Donaldson as “Flynn (FBI was in—wrapping up)-DOJ looking for phone records"; “Comey-Manafort (Ukr + Russia, not campaign)”; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ “Carter Page ($ game)”; and “Greek Guy” (potentially referring to George Papadopoulos, later charged with violating 18 U.S.C. § 1001 for lying to the FBI). SC_AD_00198 (Donaldson 3/16/17 Notes). Donaldson and McGahn both said they believed these were targets of SSCI. Donaldson 11/6/17 302, at 15; McGahn 12/12/17 302, at 4. But SSCI does not formally investigate individuals as “targets"; the notes on their face reference the FBI, the Department of Justice, and Comey, and the notes track the background materials prepared by the FBI for Comey’s briefing to the Gang of 8 on March 9. See SNS-Classified-0000140-44 (3/8/17 Email, Gauhar to Page et al.); see also Donaldson 11/6/17 302, at 15 (Donaldson could not rule out that Burr had told McGahn those individuals were the FBI’s targets).310 Hearing on Russian Election Tampering Before the House Permanent Select Intelligence Committee, 115th Cong. (Mar. 20, 2017).311 Comey 11/15/17 302, at 16; McCabe 8/17/17, at 15; McGahn 12/14/17 302, at 1.312 Boente 1/31/18 302, at 5; Comey 11/15/17 302, at 16-17.Vol. 2, Page 52In his opening remarks at the HPSCI hearing, which were drafted in consultation with the Department of Justice, Comey stated that he had “been authorized by the Department of Justice to confirm that the FBI, as part of [its] counterintelligence mission, is investigating the Russian government’s efforts to interfere in the 2016 presidential election and that includes investigating the nature of any links between individuals associated with the Trump campaign and the Russian government and whether there was any coordination between the campaign and Russia’s efforts. As with any counterintelligence investigation, this will also include an assessment of whether any crimes were committed.”313 Comey added that he would not comment further on what the FBI was “doing and whose conduct [it] [was] examining” because the investigation was ongoing and classified—but he observed that he had “taken the extraordinary step in consultation with the Department of Justice of briefing this Congress’s leaders ... in a classified setting in detail about the investigation.314 Comey was specifically asked whether President Trump was “under investigation during the campaign” or “under investigation now."316 Comey declined to answer, stating, “Please don’t over interpret what I’ve said as-as the chair and ranking know, we have briefed him in great detail on the subjects of the investigation and what we’re doing, but I’m not gonna answer about anybody in this forum.”316 Comey was also asked whether the FBI was investigating the information contained in the Steele reporting, and he declined to answer.317According to McGahn and Donaldson, the President had expressed frustration with Comey before his March 20 testimony, and the testimony made matters worse.318 The President had previously criticized Comey for too frequently making headlines and for not attending intelligence briefings at the White House, and the President suspected Comey of leaking certain information to the media.319 McGahn said the President thought Comey was acting like “his own branch of government."320312 Hearing on Russian Election Tampering Before the House Permanent Select Intelligence Committee, 115th Cong. (Mar. 20, 2017) (CQ Cong. Transcripts, at 11) (testimony by FBI Director James B. Comey); Comey 11/15/17302, at 17; Boente 1/31/18 302, at 5 (confirming that the Department of Justice authorized Comey’s remarks).314 Hearing on Russian Election Tampering Before the House Permanent Select Intelligence Committee, 115th Cong. (Mar. 20, 2017) (CQ Cong. Transcripts, at 11) (testimony by FBI Director James B. Comey ).315 Hearing on Russian Election Tampering Before the House Permanent Select Intelligence Committee, 115th Cong. (Mar. 20, 2017) (CQ Cong. Transcripts, at 130) (question by Rep. Swalwell).316Hearing on Russian Election Tampering Before the House Permanent Select Intelligence Committee, 115th Cong. (Mar. 20, 2017) (CQ Cong. Transcripts, at 130) (testimony by FBI Director James B. Comey).317 Hearing on Russian Election Tampering Before the House Permanent Select Intelligence Committee, 115th Cong. (Mar. 20, 2017) (CQ Cong. Transcripts, at 143) (testimony by FBI Director James B. Comey).318 Donaldson 11/6/17 302, at 21; McGahn 12/12/17 302, at 7.319 Donaldson 11/6/17 302, at 21; McGahn 12/12/17 302, at 6-9.320 McGahn 12/12/17 302, at 7.Vol. 2, Page 53Press reports following Comey’s March 20 testimony suggested that the FBI was investigating the President, contrary to what Comey had told the President at the end of the January 6, 2017 intelligence assessment briefing 321 McGahn, Donaldson, and senior advisor Stephen Miller recalled that the President was upset with Comey’s testimony and the press coverage that followed because of the suggestion that the President was under investigation.322 Notes from the White House Counsel’s Office dated March 21, 2017, indicate that the President was “beside himself” over Comey’s testimony323 The President called McGahn repeatedly that day to ask him to intervene with the Department of Justice, and, according to the notes, the President was getting hotter and hotter, get rid?”324 Officials in the White House Counsel’s Office became so concerned that the President would fire Comey that they began drafting a memorandum that examined whether the President needed cause to terminate the FBI director.325At the President’s urging, McGahn contacted Boente several times on March 21, 2017, to seek Boente’s assistance in having Comey or the Department of Justice correct the misperception that the President was under investigation.326 Boente did not specifically recall the conversations, although he did remember one conversation with McGahn around this time where McGahn asked if there was a way to speed up or end the Russia investigation as quickly as possible.327 Boente said McGahn told him the President was under a cloud and it made it hard for him to govern.328 Boente recalled telling McGahn that there was no good way to shorten the investigation and attempting to do so could erode confidence in the investigation’s conclusions.329 Boente said McGahn agreed and dropped the issue.330 The President also sought to speak with Boente directly, but McGahn told the President that Boente did not want to talk to the President about the request321 E.g., Matt Apuzzo et al., F.B.I. Is Investigating Trump’s Russia Ties, Comey Confirms, New York Times (Mar. 20, 2017); Andy Greenberg. The FBI Has Been Investigating Trump’s Russia Ties Since July, Wired (Mar. 20, 2017); Julie Borger &amp; Spencer Ackerman, Trump-Russia collusion is being investigated by FBI, Comey confirms, Guardian (Mar. 20, 2017); see Comey 1/6/17 Memorandum, at 2.322 Donaldson 11/6/17 302, at 16-17; S. Miller 10/31/17302, at 4; McGahn 12/12/17 302, at 5-7.323 SC AD 00213 (Donaldson 3/21/17 Notes). The notes from that day also indicate that the President referred to the “Comey bombshell” which “made [him] look like a fool.” SC_AD_00206 (Donaldson 3/21/17 Notes).324 SC AD 00210 (Donaldson 3/21/17 Notes).325 SCR016_000002-05 (White House Counsel’s Office Memorandum). White House Counsel’s Office attorney Uttam Dhillon did not recall a triggering event causing the White House Counsel’s Office to begin this research. Dhillon 11/21/17 302, at 5. Metadata from the document, which was provided by the White House, establishes that it was created on March 21, 2017.326 Donaldson 11/6/17 302, at 16-21; McGahn 12/12/17 302, at 5-7.327 Boente 1/31/18 302, at 5.328 Boente 1/31/18 302, at 5.329 Boente 1/31/18 302, at 5.330 Boente 1/31/18 302, at 5.Vol. 2, Page 54to intervene with Comey331 McGahn recalled Boente telling him in calls that day that he did not think it was sustainable for Comey to stay on as FBI director for the next four years, which McGahn said he conveyed to the President.332 Boente did not recall discussing with McGahn or anyone else the idea that Comey should not continue as FBI director.330In the weeks following Comey’s March 20, 2017 testimony, the President repeatedly asked intelligence community officials to push back publicly on any suggestion that the President had a connection to the Russian election-interference effort. On March 22, 2017, the President asked Director of National Intelligence Daniel Coats and CIA Director Michael Pompeo to stay behind in the Oval Office after a Presidential Daily Briefing.334 According to Coats, the President asked them whether they could say publicly that no link existed between him and Russia.335 Coats responded that the Office of the Director of National Intelligence (ODNI) has nothing to do with investigations and it was not his role to make a public statement on the Russia investigation.336 Pompeo had no recollection of being asked to stay behind after the March 22 briefing, but he recalled that the President regularly urged officials to get the word out that he had not done anything wrong related to Russia.337Coats told this Office that the President never asked him to speak to Comey about the FBI investigation.338 Some ODNI staffers, however, had a different recollection of how Coats described the meeting immediately after it occurred. According to senior ODNI official Michael Dempsey, Coats said after the meeting that the President had brought up the Russia investigation and asked him to contact Comey to see if there was a way to get past the investigation, get it over with, end it, or words to that effect.339 Dempsey said that Coats described the President’s comments as falling “somewhere between musing about hating the investigation” and wanting Coats to “do something to stop it."340 Dempsey said Coats made it clear that he would not get involved with an ongoing FBI investigation.341 Edward Gistaro, another ODNI official, recalled 340331 SC AD_00210 (Donaldson 3/21/17 Notes); McGahn 12/12/17 302, at 7; Donaldson 11/6/17 302, at 19.332 McGahn 12/12/17 302, at 7; Burnham 11/03/17 302, at 11.333 Boente 1/31/18 302, at 3.334 Coats 6/14/17 302, at 3; Culver 6/14/17 302, at 2.335 Coats 6/14/17 302, at 3.336Coats 6/14/17 302, at 3.337 Pompeo 6/28/17 302, at 1-3.338 Coats 6/14/17 302, at 3.339 Dempsey 6/14/17 302, at 2.340 Dempsey 6/14/17 302, at 2-3.341 Dempsey 6/14/17 302, at 3.Vol. 2, Page 55that right after Coats’s meeting with the President, on the walk from the Oval Office back to the Eisenhower Executive Office Building, Coats said that the President had kept him behind to ask him what he could do to “help with the investigation.”342 Another ODNI staffer who had been waiting for Coats outside the Oval Office talked to Gistaro a few minutes later and recalled Gistaro reporting that Coats was upset because the President had asked him to contact Comey to convince him there was nothing to the Russia investigation.343On Saturday, March 25, 2017, three days after the meeting in the Oval Office, the President called Coats and again complained about the Russia investigations, saying words to the effect of, “I can’t do anything with Russia, there’s things I’d like to do with Russia, with trade, with ISIS, they’re all over me with this."344 Coats told the President that the investigations were going to go on and the best thing to do was to let them run their course.345 Coats later testified in a congressional hearing that he had never felt pressure to intervene or interfere in any way and shape—with shaping intelligence in a political way, or in relationship ... to an ongoing investigation.”346On March 26, 2017, the day after the President called Coats, the President called NSA Director Admiral Michael Rogers.347 The President expressed frustration with the Russia investigation, saying that it made relations with the Russians difficult.348 The President told Rogers “the thing with the Russians [wa]s messing up” his ability to get things done with Russia.349 The President also said that the news stories linking him with Russia were not true and asked Rogers if he could do anything to refute the stories.350 Deputy Director of the NSA Richard Ledgett, who was present for the call, said it was the most unusual thing he had experienced in 40 years of government service.351 After the call concluded, Ledgett prepared a memorandum that he and Rogers both signed documenting the content of the conversation and the President’s request, and they placed the memorandum in a safe.352 But Rogers did not perceive the President’s request to be an order, and the President did not ask Rogers to push back on the Russia342 Gistaro 6/14/17 302, at 2.343 Culver 6/14/17 302, at 2-3.344 Coats 6/14/17 302, at 4.345 Coats 6/14/17 302, at 4; Dempsey 6/14/17 302, at 3 (Coats relayed that the President had asked several times what Coats could do to help “get [the investigation] done,” and Coats had repeatedly told the President that fastest way to get it done” was to let it run its course).346 Hearing on Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act Before the Senate Select Intelligence Committee, 115th Cong. (June 7, 2017) (CQ Cong. Transcripts, at 25) (testimony by Daniel Coats, Director of National Intelligence).347Rogers 6/12/17 302, at 3-4.348 Rogers 6/12/17 302, at 4.349 Ledgett 6/13/17 302, at 1-2; see Rogers 6/12/17 302, at 4.350 Rogers 6/12/17 302, at 4-5; Ledgett 6/13/17 302, at 2.351 Ledgett 6/13/17 302, at 2.352 Ledgett 6/13/17 302, at 2-3; Rogers 6/12/17 302, at 4.Vol. 2, Page 56investigation itself.353 Rogers later testified in a congressional hearing that as NSA Director he had “never been directed to do anything [he] believe[d] to be illegal, immoral, unethical or inappropriate” and did not recall ever feeling pressured to do so."354In addition to the specific comments made to Coats, Pompeo, and Rogers, the President spoke on other occasions in the presence of intelligence community officials about the Russia investigation and stated that it interfered with his ability to conduct foreign relations.355 On at least two occasions, the President began Presidential Daily Briefings by stating that there was no collusion with Russia and he hoped a press statement to that effect could be issued.357 Pompeo recalled that the President vented about the investigation on multiple occasions, complaining that there was no evidence against him and that nobody would publicly defend him.352 Rogers recalled a private conversation with the President in which he “vent[ed]” about the investigation, said he had done nothing wrong, and said something like the “Russia thing has got to go away."358 Coats recalled the President bringing up the Russia investigation several times, and Coats said he finally told the President that Coats’s job was to provide intelligence and not get involved in investigations.359On the morning of March 30, 2017, the President reached out to Comey directly about the Russia investigation.360 According to Comey’s contemporaneous record of the conversation, the President said “he was trying to run the country and the cloud of this Russia business was making353 Rogers 6/12/17 302, at 5; Ledgett 6/13/17 302, at 2.354 Hearing on Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act Before the Senate Select Intelligence Committee, 115th Cong. (June 7, 2017) (CQ Cong. Transcripts, at 20) (testimony by Admiral Michael Rogers, Director of the National Security Agency).355 Gistaro 6/14/17 302, at 1, 3; Pompeo 6/28/17 302, at 2-3.356 Gistaro 6/14/17 302, at 1.357 Pompeo 6/28/17 302, at 2.358Rogers 6/12/17 302, at 6.359 Coats 6/14/17 302, at 3-4.360 SCR0126_000044 (President’s Daily Diary, 3/30/17, reflecting call to Comey from 8:14 - 8:24 a.m.); Comey 3/30/17 Memorandum, at 1 ("The President called me on my CMS phone at 8:13 am today. ... The call lasted 11 minutes (about 10 minutes when he was connected)."; Hearing on Russian Election Interference Before the Senate Select Intelligence Committee, 115th Cong. (June 8, 2017) (Statement for the Record of James B. Comey, former Director of the FBI, at 6).Vol. 2, Page 57that difficult."361 The President asked Comey what could be done to “lift the cloud.” 362 Comey explained “that we were running it down as quickly as possible and that there would be great benefit, if we didn’t find anything, to our Good Housekeeping seal of approval, but we had to do our work."363 Comey also told the President that congressional leaders were aware that the FBI was not investigating the President personally.364 The President said several times, “We need to get that fact out."365 The President commented that if there was “some satellite” (which Comey took to mean an associate of the President’s or the campaign) that did something, “it would be good to find that out” but that he himself had not done anything wrong and he hoped Comey “would find a way to get out that we weren’t investigating him.”366 After the call ended, Comey called Boente and told him about the conversation, asked for guidance on how to respond, and said he was uncomfortable with direct contact from the President about the investigation.367On the morning of April 11, 2017, the President called Comey again.368 According to Comey’s contemporaneous record of the conversation, the President said he was “following up to see if [Comey] did what [the President] had asked last time-getting out that he personally is not under investigation.”369 Comey responded that he had passed the request to Boente but not heard back, and he informed the President that the traditional channel for such a request would be to361 Comey 3/30/17 Memorandum, at 1. Comey subsequently testified before Congress about this conversation and described it to our Office; his recollections were consistent with his memorandum. Hearing on Russian Election Interference Before the Senate Select Intelligence Committee, 115th Cong. (June 8, 2017) (Statement for the Record of James B. Comey, former Director of the FBI, at 6); Comey 11/15/17 302, at 18.362 Comey 3/30/17 Memorandum, at 1; Comey 11/15/17 302, at 18.363 Comey 3/30/17 Memorandum, at 1; Comey 11/15/17 302, at 18.364 Comey 3/30/17 Memorandum, at 1; Hearing on Russian Election Interference Before the Senate Select Intelligence Committee, 115th Cong. (June 8, 2017) (Statement for the Record of James B. Comey, former Director of the FBI, at 6).365 Comey 3/30/17 Memorandum, at 1; Hearing on Russian Election Interference Before the Senate Select Intelligence Committee, 115th Cong. (June 8, 2017) (Statement for the Record of James B. Comey, former Director of the FBI, at 6).366 Comey 3/30/17 Memorandum, at 1; Hearing on Russian Election Interference Before the Senate Select Intelligence Committee, 115th Cong. (June 8, 2017) (Statement for the Record of James B. Comey, former Director of the FBI, at 6-7).367 Comey 3/30/17 Memorandum, at 2; Boente 1/31/18 302, at 6-7; Hearing on Russian Election Interference Before the Senate Select Intelligence Committee, 115th Cong. (June 8, 2017) (Statement for the Record of James B. Comey, former Director of the FBI, at 7).368SCR0126 000053 (President’s Daily Diary, 4/11/17, reflecting call to Comey from 8:27 - 8:31 a.m.); Comey 4/11/17 Memorandum, at 1 ("I returned the president’s call this morning at 8:26 am EDT. We spoke for about four minutes.”).369 Comey 4/11/17 Memorandum, at 1. Comey subsequently testified before Congress about this conversation and his recollections were consistent with his memo. Hearing on Russian Election Interference Before the Senate Select Intelligence Committee, 115th Cong. (June 8, 2017) (Statement for the Record of James B. Comey, former Director of the FBI, at 7).Vol. 2, Page 58have the White House Counsel contact DOJ leadership.370 The President said he would take that step.371 The President then added, “Because I have been very loyal to you, very loyal, we had that thing, you know."372 In a televised interview that was taped early that afternoon, the President was asked if it was too late for him to ask Comey to step down; the President responded, “No, it’s not too late, but you know, I have confidence in him. We’ll see what happens. You know, it’s going to be interesting."373 After the interview, Hicks told the President she thought the President’s comment about Comey should be removed from the broadcast of the interview, but the President wanted to keep it in, which Hicks thought was unusual.374Later that day, the President told senior advisors, including McGahn and Priebus, that he had reached out to Comey twice in recent weeks.375 The President acknowledged that McGahn would not approve of the outreach to Comey because McGahn had previously cautioned the President that he should not talk to Comey directly to prevent any perception that the White House was interfering with investigations.376 The President told McGahn that Comey had indicated the FBI could make a public statement that the President was not under investigation if the Department of Justice approved that action.377 After speaking with the President, McGahn followed up with Boente to relay the President’s understanding that the FBI could make a public announcement if the Department of Justice cleared it.378 McGahn recalled that Boente said Comey had told him there was nothing obstructive about the calls from the President, but they made Comey uncomfortable.379 According to McGahn, Boente responded that he did not want to issue a statement about the President not being under investigation because of the potential political ramifications and did not want to order Comey to do it because that action could prompt the370Comey 4/11/17 Memorandum, at 1.371 Comey 4/11/17 Memorandum, at 1.372 Comey 4/11/17 Memorandum, at 1. In a footnote to this statement in his memorandum, Comey wrote, “His use of these words did not fit with the flow of the call, which at that point had moved away from any request of me, but I have recorded it here as it happened."373 Maria Bartiromo, Interview with President Trump, Fox Business Network (Apr. 12, 2017); SCR012b_000054 (President’s Daily Diary, 4/11/17, reflecting Bartiromo interview from 12:30 - 12:55 p.m.).374 Hicks 12/8/17 302, at 13.375 Priebus 10/13/17 302, at 23; McGahn 12/12/17 302, at 9.376 Priebus 10/13/17 302, at 23; McGahn 12/12/17 302, at 9; see McGahn 11/30/17 302, at 9; Dhillon 11/21/17 302, at 2 (stating that White House Counsel attorneys had advised the President not to contact the FBI Director directly because it could create a perception he was interfering with investigations). Later in April, the President told other attorneys in the White House Counsel’s Office that he had called Comey even though he knew they had advised against direct contact. Dhillon 11/21/17 302, at 2 (recalling that the President said, “I know you told me not to, but I called Comey anyway.”).377 McGahn 12/12/17 302, at 9.378 McGahn 12/12/17 302, at 9.379 McGahn 12/12/17 302, at 9; see Boente 1/31/18 302, at 6 (recalling that Comey told him after the March 30, 2017 call that it was not obstructive).Vol. 2, Page 59appointment of a Special Counsel.380 Boente did not recall that aspect of his conversation with McGahn, but did recall telling McGahn that the direct outreaches from the President to Comey were a problem.381 Boente recalled that McGahn agreed and said he would do what he could to address that issue.382In analyzing the President’s reaction to Sessions’s recusal and the requests he made to Coats, Pompeo, Rogers, and Comey, the following evidence is relevant to the elements of obstruction of justice:a. Obstructive act. The evidence shows that, after Comey’s March 20, 2017 testimony, the President repeatedly reached out to intelligence agency leaders to discuss the FBI’s investigation. But witnesses had different recollections of the precise content of those outreaches. Some ODNI officials recalled that Coats told them immediately after the March 22 Oval Office meeting that the President asked Coats to intervene with Comey and “stop” the investigation. But the first-hand witnesses to the encounter remember the conversation differently. Pompeo had no memory of the specific meeting, but generally recalled the President urging officials to get the word out that the President had not done anything wrong related to Russia. Coats recalled that the President asked that Coats state publicly that no link existed between the President and Russia, but did not ask him to speak with Comey or to help end the investigation. The other outreaches by the President during this period were similar in nature. The President asked Rogers if he could do anything to refute the stories linking the President to Russia, and the President asked Comey to make a public statement that would “lift the cloud” of the ongoing investigation by making clear that the President was not personally under investigation. These requests, while significant enough that Rogers thought it important to document the encounter in a written memorandum, were not interpreted by the officials who received them as directives to improperly interfere with the investigation.b. Nexus to a proceeding. At the time of the President’s outreaches to leaders of the intelligence agencies in late March and early April 2017, the FBI’s Russia investigation did not yet involve grand jury proceedings. The outreaches, however, came after and were in response to Comey’s March 20, 2017 announcement that the FBI, as a part of its counterintelligence mission, was conducting an investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election. Comey testified that the investigation included any links or coordination with Trump campaign officials and would “include an assessment of whether any crimes were committed.”c. Intent. As described above, the evidence does not establish that the President asked or directed intelligence agency leaders to stop or interfere with the FBI’s Russia investigation- and the President affirmatively told Comey that if “some satellite” was involved in Russian election interference “it would be good to find that out.” But the President’s intent in trying to prevent Sessions’s recusal, and in reaching out to Coats, Pompeo, Rogers, and Comey following380 McGahn 12/12/17 302, at 9-10.381 Boente 1/31/18 302, at 7; McGahn 12/12/17 302, at 9.382 Boente 1/31/18 302, at 7.Vol. 2, Page 60Comey’s public announcement of the FBI’s Russia investigation, is nevertheless relevant to understanding what motivated the President’s other actions towards the investigation.The evidence shows that the President was focused on the Russia investigation’s implications for his presidency—and, specifically, on dispelling any suggestion that he was under investigation or had links to Russia. In early March, the President attempted to prevent Sessions’s recusal, even after being told that Sessions was following DOJ conflict-of-interest rules. After Sessions recused, the White House Counsel’s Office tried to cut off further contact with Sessions about the matter, although it is not clear whether that direction was conveyed to the President. The President continued to raise the issue of Sessions’s recusal and, when he had the opportunity, he pulled Sessions aside and urged him to unrecuse. The President also told advisors that he wanted an Attorney General who would protect him, the way he perceived Robert Kennedy and Eric Holder to have protected their presidents. The President made statements about being able to direct the course of criminal investigations, saying words to the effect of, “You’re telling me that Bobby and Jack didn’t talk about investigations? Or Obama didn’t tell Eric Holder who to investigate?”After Comey publicly confirmed the existence of the FBI’s Russia investigation on March 20, 2017, the President was “beside himself and expressed anger that Comey did not issue a statement correcting any misperception that the President himself was under investigation. The President sought to speak with Acting Attorney General Boente directly and told McGahn to contact Boente to request that Comey make a clarifying statement. The President then asked other intelligence community leaders to make public statements to refute the suggestion that the President had links to Russia, but the leaders told him they could not publicly comment on the investigation. On March 30 and April 11, against the advice of White House advisors who had informed him that any direct contact with the FBI could be perceived as improper interference in an ongoing investigation, the President made personal outreaches to Comey asking him to “lift the cloud” of the Russia investigation by making public the fact that the President was not personally under investigation.Evidence indicates that the President was angered by both the existence of the Russia investigation and the public reporting that he was under investigation, which he knew was not true based on Comey’s representations. The President complained to advisors that if people thought Russia helped him with the election, it would detract from what he had accomplished.Other evidence indicates that the President was concerned about the impact of the Russia investigation on his ability to govern. The President complained that the perception that he was under investigation was hurting his ability to conduct foreign relations, particularly with Russia. The President told Coats he “can’t do anything with Russia,” he told Rogers that “the thing with the Russians” was interfering with his ability to conduct foreign affairs, and he told Comey that “he was trying to run the country and the cloud of this Russia business was making that difficult.”Vol. 2, Page 61Comey was scheduled to testify before Congress on May 3, 2017. Leading up to that testimony, the President continued to tell advisors that he wanted Comey to make public that the President was not under investigation. At the hearing, Comey declined to answer questions about the scope or subjects of the Russia investigation and did not state publicly that the President was not under investigation. Two days later, on May 5, 2017, the President told close aides he was going to fire Comey, and on May 9, he did so, using his official termination letter to make public that Comey had on three occasions informed the President that he was not under investigation. The President decided to fire Comey before receiving advice or a recommendation from the Department of Justice, but he approved an initial public account of the termination that attributed it to a recommendation from the Department of Justice based on Comey’s handling of the Clinton email investigation. After Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein resisted attributing the firing to his recommendation, the President acknowledged that he intended to fire Comey regardless of the DOJ recommendation and was thinking of the Russia investigation when he made the decision. The President also told the Russian Foreign Minister, “I just fired the head of the F.B.I. He was crazy, a real nut job. I faced great pressure because of Russia. That’s taken off. .. .. I’m not under investigation."On May 3, 2017, Comey was scheduled to testify at an FBI oversight hearing before the Senate Judiciary Committee.383 McGahn recalled that in the week leading up to the hearing, the President said that it would be the last straw if Comey did not take the opportunity to set the record straight by publicly announcing that the President was not under investigation.384 The President had previously told McGahn that the perception that the President was under investigation was hurting his ability to carry out his presidential duties and deal with foreign leaders.385 At the hearing, Comey declined to answer questions about the status of the Russia investigation, stating “[t]he Department of Justice ha[d] authorized [him] to confirm that [the Russia investigation] exists,” but that he was “not going to say another word about it” until the investigation was completed.386 Comey also declined to answer questions about whether investigators had “ruled383 Hearing on Oversight of the FBI before the Senate Judiciary Committee, 115th Cong. (May 3, 2017)384 McGahn 12/12/17 302, at 10-11.385 McGahn 12/12/17 302, at 7, 10-11 (McGahn believed that two foreign leaders had expressed sympathy to the President for being under investigation); SC_AD_00265 (Donaldson 4/11/17 Notes) (“P Called Comey - Day we told him not to? “You are not under investigation’ NK/China/Sapping Credibility”).386 Hearing on FBI Oversight Before the Senate Judiciary Committee, 115th Cong. (CQ Cong. Transcripts, at 70) (May 3, 2017) (testimony by FBI Director James Comey). Comey repeated this point several times during his testimony. See id. at 26 (explaining that he was “not going to say another peep about [the investigation] until we’re done”); id. at 90 (stating that he would not provide any updates about the status of investigation “before the matter is concluded”).Vol. 2, Page 62out anyone in the Trump campaign as potentially a target of th[e] criminal investigation,” including whether the FBI had “ruled out the president of the United States."387 Comey was also asked at the hearing about his decision to announce 11 days before the presidential election that the FBI was reopening the Clinton email investigation.388 Comey stated that it made him “mildly nauseous to think that we might have had some impact on the election,” but added that “even in hindsight” he “would make the same decision."389 He later repeated that he had no regrets about how he had handled the email investigation and believed he had “done the right thing at each turn."390In the afternoon following Comey’s testimony, the President met with McGahn, Sessions, and Sessions’s Chief of Staff Jody Hunt.391 At that meeting, the President asked McGahn how Comey had done in his testimony and McGahn relayed that Comey had declined to answer questions about whether the President was under investigation.392 The President became very upset and directed his anger at Sessions.393 According to notes written by Hunt, the President said, “This is terrible Jeff. It’s all because you recused. AG is supposed to be most important appointment. Kennedy appointed his brother. Obama appointed Holder. I appointed you and you recused yourself. You left me on an island. I can’t do anything."394 The President said that the recusal was unfair and that it was interfering with his ability to govern and undermining his authority with foreign leaders.395 Sessions responded that he had had no choice but to recuse, and it was a mandatory rather than discretionary decision.396 Hunt recalled that Sessions also stated at387 Hearing on FBI Oversight Before the Senate Judiciary Committee, 115th Cong. (May 3, 2017) (CQ Cong. Transcripts, at 87-88) (questions by Sen. Blumenthal and testimony by FBI Director James B. Comey).388Hearing on FBI Oversight Before the Senate Judiciary Committee, 115th Cong. (May 3, 2017) (CQ Cong. Transcripts, at 15) (question by Sen. Feinstein).389 Hearing on FBI Oversight Before the Senate Judiciary Committee, 115th Cong. (May 3, 2017) (CQ Cong. Transcripts, at 17) (testimony by FBI Director James B. Comey).390 Hearing on FBI Oversight Before the Senate Judiciary Committee, 115th Cong. (May 3, 2017) (CQ Cong. Transcripts, at 92) (testimony by FBI Director James B. Comey).391 Sessions 1/17/18 302, at 8; Hunt 2/1/18 302, at 8.392 Sessions 1/17/18 302, at 8; Hunt-000021 (Hunt 5/3/17 Notes); McGahn 3/8/18 302, at 6.393 Sessions 1/17/18 302, at 8-9.394 Hunt-000021 (Hunt 5/3/17 Notes). Hunt said that he wrote down notes describing this meeting and others with the President after the events occurred. Hunt 2/1/17 302, at 2.395 Hunt-000021-22 (Hunt 5/3/17 Notes) (“I have foreign leaders saying they are sorry I am being investigated.”); Sessions 1/17/18 302, at 8 (Sessions recalled that a Chinese leader had said to the President that he was sorry the President was under investigation, which the President interpreted as undermining his authority); Hunt 2/1/18 302, at 8.396 Sessions 1/17/18 302, at 8; Hunt-000022 (Hunt 5/3/17 Notes).Vol. 2, Page 63some point during the conversation that a new start at the FBI would be appropriate and the President should consider replacing Comey as FBI director.397 According to Sessions, when the meeting concluded, it was clear that the President was unhappy with Comey, but Sessions did not think the President had made the decision to terminate Comey398Bannon recalled that the President brought Comey up with him at least eight times on May 3 and May 4, 2017.399 According to Bannon, the President said the same thing each time: “He told me three times I’m not under investigation. He’s a showboater. He’s a grandstander. I don’t know any Russians. There was no collusion.”400 Bannon told the President that he could not fire Comey because “that ship had sailed.”401 Bannon also told the President that firing Comey was not going to stop the investigation, cautioning him that he could fire the FBI director but could not fire the FBI.402The weekend following Comey’s May 3, 2017 testimony, the President traveled to his resort in Bedminster, New Jersey.403 At a dinner on Friday, May 5, attended by the President and various advisors and family members, including Jared Kushner and senior advisor Stephen Miller, the President stated that he wanted to remove Comey and had ideas for a letter that would be used to make the announcement.404 The President dictated arguments and specific language for the letter, and Miller took notes.405 As reflected in the notes, the President told Miller that the letter should start, “While I greatly appreciate you informing me that I am not under investigation concerning what I have often stated is a fabricated story on a Trump-Russia relationship - pertaining to the 2016 presidential election, please be informed that I, and I believe the American public - including Ds and Rs - have lost faith in you as Director of the FBI.”406 Following the dinner, Miller prepared a termination letter based on those notes and research he conducted to support the President’s arguments.407 Over the weekend, the President provided several rounds of397 Hunt-000022 (Hunt 5/3/17 Notes).398 Sessions 1/17/18 302, at 9.399 Bannon 2/12/18 302, at 20.400 Bannon 2/12/18 302, at 20.401 Bannon 2/12/18 302, at 20.402 Bannon 2/12/18 302, at 20-21; see Priebus 10/13/17 302, at 28.403 S. Miller 10/31/17 302, at 4-5; SCR025_000019 (President’s Daily Diary, 5/4/17).404 S. Miller 10/31/17 302, at 5.405 S. Miller 10/31/17 302, at 5-6.406 S. Miller 5/5/17 Notes, at 1; see S. Miller 10/31/17 302, at 8.407 S. Miller 10/31/17 302, at 6.Vol. 2, Page 64edits on the draft letter.408 Miller said the President was adamant that he not tell anyone at the White House what they were preparing because the President was worried about leaks. 409In his discussions with Miller, the President made clear that he wanted the letter to open with a reference to him not being under investigation.410 Miller said he believed that fact was important to the President to show that Comey was not being terminated based on any such investigation.411 According to Miller, the President wanted to establish as a factual matter that Comey had been under a “review period” and did not have assurance from the President that he would be permitted to keep his job.412The final version of the termination letter prepared by Miller and the President began in a way that closely tracked what the President had dictated to Miller at the May 5 dinner: “Dear Director Comey, While I greatly appreciate your informing me, on three separate occasions, that I am not under investigation concerning the fabricated and politically-motivated allegations of a Trump-Russia relationship with respect to the 2016 Presidential Election, please be informed that I, along with members of both political parties and, most importantly, the American Public, have lost faith in you as the Director of the FBI and you are hereby terminated.”413 The four-page letter went on to critique Comey’s judgment and conduct, including his May 3 testimony before the Senate Judiciary Committee, his handling of the Clinton email investigation, and his failure to hold leakers accountable.414 The letter stated that Comey had asked [the President] at dinner shortly after inauguration to let [Comey] stay on in the Director’s role, and [the President] said that [he] would consider it,” but the President had “concluded that [he] ha[d] no alternative but to find new leadership for the Bureau - a leader that restores confidence and trust."415In the morning of Monday, May 8, 2017, the President met in the Oval Office with senior advisors, including McGahn, Priebus, and Miller, and informed them he had decided to terminate Comey.416 The President read aloud the first paragraphs of the termination letter he wrote with408 S. Miller 10/31/17 302, at 6-8.409 S. Miller 10/31/17 302, at 7. Miller said he did not want Priebus to be blindsided, so on Sunday night he called Priebus to tell him that the President had been thinking about the “Comey situation” and there would be an important discussion on Monday. S. Miller 10/31/17 302, at 7.410 S. Miller 10/31/17 302, at 8.411 S. Miller 10/31/17 302, at 8.412 S. Miller 10/31/17 302, at 10.413 SCRO13c_000003-06 (Draft Termination Letter to FBI Director Comey).414 SCR013c_000003-06 (Draft Termination Letter to FBI Director Comey). Kushner said that the termination letter reflected the reasons the President wanted to fire Comey and was the truest representation of what the President had said during the May 5 dinner. Kushner 4/11/18 302, at 25.415 SCR013c_000003 (Draft Termination Letter to FBI Director Comey).416 McGahn 12/12/17 302, at 11; Priebus 10/13/17302, at 24; S. Miller 10/31/17302, at 11; Dhillon 11/21/17 302, at 6; Eisenberg 11/29/17 302, at 13.Vol. 2, Page 65Miller and conveyed that the decision had been made and was not up for discussion.417 The President told the group that Miller had researched the issue and determined the President had the authority to terminate Comey without cause.418 In an effort to slow down the decision-making process, McGahn told the President that DOJ leadership was currently discussing Comey’s status and suggested that White House Counsel’s Office attorneys should talk with Sessions and Rod Rosenstein, who had recently been confirmed as the Deputy Attorney General.419 McGahn said that previously scheduled meetings with Sessions and Rosenstein that day would be an opportunity to find out what they thought about firing Comey.420At noon, Sessions, Rosenstein, and Hunt met with McGahn and White House Counsel’s Office attorney Uttam Dhillon at the White House.421 McGahn said that the President had decided to fire Comey and asked for Sessions’s and Rosenstein’s views.422 Sessions and Rosenstein criticized Comey and did not raise concerns about replacing him.423 McGahn and Dhillon said the fact that neither Sessions nor Rosenstein objected to replacing Comey gave them peace of mind that the President’s decision to fire Comey was not an attempt to obstruct justice.424 An Oval Office meeting was scheduled later that day so that Sessions and Rosenstein could discuss the issue with the President.425At around 5 p.m., the President and several White House officials met with Sessions and Rosenstein to discuss Comey.426 The President told the group that he had watched Comey’s May417 S. Miller 10/31/17 302, at 11 (observing that the President started the meeting by saying, “I’m going to read you a letter. Don’t talk me out of this. I’ve made my decision.”); Dhillon 11/21/17 302, at 6 (the President announced in an irreversible way that he was firing Comey); Eisenberg 11/29/17 302, at 13 (the President did not leave whether or not to fire Comey up for discussion); Priebus 10/13/17 302, at 25; McGahn 12/12/17 302, at 11-12.418 Dhillon 302 11/21/17, at 6; Eisenberg 11/29/17 302, at 13; McGahn 12/12/17 302, at 11.419 McGahn 12/12/17 302, at 12, 13; S. Miller 10/31/17 302, at 11; Dhillon 11/21/17 302, at 7. Because of the Attorney General’s recusal, Rosenstein became the Acting Attorney General for the Russia investigation upon his confirmation as Deputy Attorney General. See 28 U.S.C. § 508(a) (“In case of a vacancy in the office of Attorney General, or of his absence or disability, the Deputy Attorney General may exercise all the duties of that office”).420 McGahn 12/12/17 302, at 12.421 Dhillon 11/21/17 302, at 7; McGahn 12/12/17 302, at 13; Gauhar-000056 (Gauhar 5/16/17 Notes); see Gauhar-000056-72 (2/11/19 Memorandum to File attaching Gauhar handwritten notes) (“Ms. Gauhar determined that she likely recorded all these notes during one or more meetings on Tuesday, May 16, 2017.”).422 McGahn 12/12/17 302, at 13; see Gauhar-000056 (Gauhar 5/16/17 Notes).423 Dhillon 11/21/17 302, at 7-9; Sessions 1/17/18 302, at 9; McGahn 12/12/17 302, at 13.424 McGahn 12/12/17 302, at 13; Dhillon 11/21/17 302, at 9.425 Hunt-000026 (Hunt 5/8/17 Notes); see Gauhar-000057 (Gauhar 5/16/17 Notes).426 Rosenstein 5/23/17 302, at 2; McGahn 12/12/17 302, at 14; see Gauhar-000057 (Gauhar 5/16/17 Notes)Vol. 2, Page 66testimony over the weekend and thought that something was “not right” with Comey.427 The President said that Comey should be removed and asked Sessions and Rosenstein for their views.428 Hunt, who was in the room, recalled that Sessions responded that he had previously recommended that Comey be replaced.429 McGahn and Dhillon said Rosenstein described his concerns about Comey’s handling of the Clinton email investigation.430The President then distributed copies of the termination letter he had drafted with Miller, and the discussion turned to the mechanics of how to fire Comey and whether the President’s letter should be used.431 McGahn and Dhillon urged the President to permit Comey to resign, but the President was adamant that he be fired.432 The group discussed the possibility that Rosenstein and Sessions could provide a recommendation in writing that Comey should be removed.433 The President agreed and told Rosenstein to draft a memorandum, but said he wanted to receive it first thing the next morning.434 Hunt’s notes reflect that the President told Rosenstein to include in his recommendation the fact that Comey had refused to confirm that the President was not personally under investigation.435 According to notes taken by a senior DOJ official of Rosenstein’s description of his meeting with the President, the President said, “Put the Russia stuff in the memo.”436 Rosenstein responded that the Russia investigation was not the basis of his recommendation, so he did not think Russia should be mentioned.437 The President told Rosenstein he would appreciate it if Rosenstein put it in his letter anyway.438 When Rosenstein427 Hunt-000026-27 (Hunt 5/8/17 Notes).428 Sessions 1/17/18 302, at 10; see Gauhar-000058 (Gauhar 5/16/17 Notes) (“POTUS to AG: What is your rec?”).429 Hunt-000027 (Hunt 5/8/17 Notes).430 McGahn 12/12/17 302, at 14; Dhillon 11/21/17 302, at 7.431 Hunt-000028 (Hunt 5/8/17 Notes).432 McGahn 12/12/17 302, at 13.433 Hunt-000028-29 (Hunt 5/8/17 Notes).434 McCabe 9/26/17 302, at 13; Rosenstein 5/23/17 302, at 2; see Gauhar-000059 (Gauhar 5/16/17 Notes) (“POTUS tells DAG to write a memo”).435 Hunt-000028-29 (Hunt 5/8/17 Notes) (“POTUS asked if Rod’s recommendation would include the fact that although Comey talks about the investigation he refuses to say that the President is not under investigation. ... So it would be good if your recommendation would make mention of the fact that Comey refuses to say public[ly] what he said privately 3 times.”).436 Gauhar-000059 (Gauhar 5/16/17 Notes).437 Sessions 1/17/18 302 at 10; McCabe 9/26/17 302, at 13; see Gauhar-000059 (Gauhar 5/16/17 Notes).438 Gauhar-000059 (Gauhar 5/16/17 Notes); McCabe 5/16/17 Memorandum 1; McCabe 9/26/17 302, at 13.Vol. 2, Page 67left the meeting, he knew that Comey would be terminated, and he told DOJ colleagues that his own reasons for replacing Comey were “not [the President’s] reasons.”439On May 9, Hunt delivered to the White House a letter from Sessions recommending Comey’s removal and a memorandum from Rosenstein, addressed to the Attorney General, titled “Restoring Public Confidence in the FBI.440 McGahn recalled that the President liked the DOJ letters and agreed that they should provide the foundation for a new cover letter from the President accepting the recommendation to terminate Comey.441 Notes taken by Donaldson on May 9 reflected the view of the White House Counsel’s Office that the President’s original termination letter should “[n]ot [see the] light of day” and that it would be better to offer “[n]o other rationales” for the firing than what was in Rosenstein’s and Sessions’s memoranda.442 The President asked Miller to draft a new termination letter and directed Miller to say in the letter that Comey had informed the President three times that he was not under investigation.443 McGahn, Priebus, and Dhillon objected to including that language, but the President insisted that it be included.444 McGahn, Priebus, and others perceived that language to be the most important part of the letter to439 Rosenstein 5/23/17 302, at 2; Gauhar-000059 (Gauhar 5/16/17 Notes) (“DAG reasons not their reasons [POTUS]”); Gauhar-000060 (Gauhar 5/16/17 Notes) (“1st draft had a recommendation. Took it out b/c knew decision had already been made.”).440 Rosenstein 5/23/17 302, at 4; McGahn 12/12/17 302, at 15; 5/9/17 Letter, Sessions to President Trump (“Based on my evaluation, and for the reasons expressed by the Deputy Attorney General in the attached memorandum, I have concluded that a fresh start is needed at the leadership of the FBI.”); 5/9/17 Memorandum, Rosenstein to Sessions (concluding with, “The way the Director handled the conclusion of the email investigation was wrong. As a result, the FBI is unlikely to regain public and congressional trust until it has a Director who understands the gravity of the mistakes and pledges never to repeat them. Having refused to admit his errors, the Director cannot be expected to implement the necessary corrective actions.”).441 S. Miller 10/31/17 302, at 12; McGahn 12/12/17 302, at 15; Hunt-000031 (Hunt 5/9/17 Notes).442 SC AD 00342 (Donaldson 5/9/17 Notes). Donaldson also wrote “[i]s this the beginning of the end?” because she was worried that the decision to terminate Comey and the manner in which it was carried out would be the end of the presidency. Donaldson 11/6/17 302, at 25.443 S. Miller 10/31/17 302, at 12; McGahn 12/12/17 302, at 15; Hunt-000032 (Hunt 5/9/17 Notes).444 McGahn 12/12/17 302, at 15; S. Miller 10/31/17 302, at 12; Dhillon 11/21/17 302, at 8, 10; Priebus 10/13/17 302, at 27; Hunt 2/1/18 302, at 14-15; Hunt-000032 (Hunt 5/9/17 Notes).Vol. 2, Page 68the President.445 Dhillon made a final pitch to the President that Comey should be permitted to resign, but the President refused.446Around the time the President’s letter was finalized, Priebus summoned Spicer and the press team to the Oval Office, where they were told that Comey had been terminated for the reasons stated in the letters by Rosenstein and Sessions.447 To announce Comey’s termination, the White House released a statement, which Priebus thought had been dictated by the President.448 In full, the statement read: “Today, President Donald J. Trump informed FBI Director James Comey that he has been terminated and removed from office. President Trump acted based on the clear recommendations of both Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein and Attorney General Jeff Sessions.”449That evening, FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe was summoned to meet with the President at the White House.450 The President told McCabe that he had fired Comey because of the decisions Comey had made in the Clinton email investigation and for many other reasons.451 The President asked McCabe if he was aware that Comey had told the President three times that he was not under investigation.452 The President also asked McCabe whether many people in the FBI disliked Comey and whether McCabe was part of the “resistance” that had disagreed with Comey’s decisions in the Clinton investigation.453 McCabe told the President that he knew Comey had told the President he was not under investigation, that most people in the FBI felt positively about Comey, and that McCabe worked “very closely with Comey and was part of all the decisions that had been made in the Clinton investigation.454445 Dhillon 11/21/17 302, at 10; Eisenberg 11/29/17 302, at 15 (providing the view that the President’s desire to include the language about not being under investigation was the “driving animus of the whole thing”); Burnham 11/3/17 302, at 16 (Burnham knew the only line the President cared about was the line that said Comey advised the President on three separate occasions that the President was not under investigation). According to Hunt’s notes, the reference to Comey’s statement would indicate that “notwithstanding” Comey’s having informed the President that he was not under investigation, the President was terminating Comey. Hunt-000032 (Hunt 5/9/17 Notes). McGahn said he believed the President wanted the language included so that people would not think that the President had terminated Comey because the President was under investigation. McGahn 12/12/17 302, at 15.446 McGahn 12/12/17 302, at 15; Donaldson 11/6/17 302, at 25; see SC AD_00342 (Donaldson 5/9/17 Notes) (“Resign vs. Removal. - POTUS/removal.”).447 Spicer 10/16/17 302, at 9; McGahn 12/12/17 302, at 16.448 Priebus 10/13/17 302, at 28.449 Statement of the Press Secretary, The White House, Office of the Press Secretary (May 9, 2017).450McCabe 9/26/17 302, at 4; SCR025_000044 (President’s Daily Diary, 5/9/17); McCabe 5/10/17 Memorandum, at 1.451 McCabe 9/26/17 302, at 5; McCabe 5/10/17 Memorandum, at 1.452 McCabe 9/26/17 302, at 5; McCabe 5/10/17 Memorandum, at 1-2.453 McCabe 9/26/17 302, at 5; McCabe 5/10/17 Memorandum, at 1-2.454 McCabe 9/26/17 302, at 5; McCabe 5/10/17 Memorandum, at 1-2.Vol. 2, Page 69Later that evening, the President told his communications team he was unhappy with the press coverage of Comey’s termination and ordered them to go out and defend him.455 The President also called Chris Christie and, according to Christie, said he was getting “killed” in the press over Comey’s termination.456 The President asked what he should do.457 Christie asked, “Did you fire [Comey] because of what Rod wrote in the memo?”, and the President responded, “Yes.”:458 Christie said that the President should “get Rod out there” and have him defend the decision.459 The President told Christie that this was a “good idea” and said he was going to call Rosenstein right away.460That night, the White House Press Office called the Department of Justice and said the White House wanted to put out a statement saying that it was Rosenstein’s idea to fire Comey.461 Rosenstein told other DOJ officials that he would not participate in putting out a “false story.”462 The President then called Rosenstein directly and said he was watching Fox News, that the coverage had been great, and that he wanted Rosenstein to do a press conference.463 Rosenstein responded that this was not a good idea because if the press asked him, he would tell the truth that Comey’s firing was not his idea.464 Sessions also informed the White House Counsel’s Office that evening that Rosenstein was upset that his memorandum was being portrayed as the reason for Comey’s termination.465In an unplanned press conference late in the evening of May 9, 2017, Spicer told reporters, “It was all [Rosenstein). No one from the White House. It was a DOJ decision.”466 That evening and the next morning, White House officials and spokespeople continued to maintain that the455 Spicer 10/16/17 302, at 11; Hicks 12/8/17, at 18; Sanders 7/3/18 302, at 2.456 Christie 2/13/19 302, at 6.457 Christie 2/13/19 302, at 6.458 Christie 2/13/19 302, at 6.459 Christie 2/13/19 302, at 6.460 Christie 2/13/19 302, at 6.461 Gauhar-000071 (Gauhar 5/16/17 Notes); Page Memorandum, at 3 (recording events of 5/16/17); McCabe 9/26/17 302, at 14.462 Rosenstein 5/23/17 302, at 4-5; Gauhar-000059 (Gauhar 5/16/17 Notes).463 Rosenstein 5/23/17 302, at 4-5; Gauhar-000071 (Gauhar 5/16/17 Notes).464 Gauhar-000071 (Gauhar 5/16/17 Notes). DOJ notes from the week of Comey’s firing indicate that Priebus was “screaming” at the DOJ public affairs office trying to get Rosenstein to do a press conference, and the DOJ public affairs office told Priebus that Rosenstein had told the President he was not doing it. Gauhar-000071-72 (Gauhar 5/16/17 Notes).465 McGahn 12/12/17 302, at 16-17; Donaldson 11/6/17 302, at 26-27; Dhillon 11/21/17 302, at 11.466 Jenna Johnson, After Trump fired Comey, White House staff scrambled to explain why, Washington Post (May 10, 2017) (quoting Spicer).Vol. 2, Page 70President’s decision to terminate Comey was driven by the recommendations the President received from Rosenstein and Sessions.467In the morning on May 10, 2017, President Trump met with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov and Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak in the Oval Office.468 The media subsequently reported that during the May 10 meeting the President brought up his decision the prior day to terminate Comey, telling Lavrov and Kislyak: “I just fired the head of the F.B.I. He was crazy, a real nut job. I faced great pressure because of Russia. That’s taken off. ... I’m not under investigation.”469 The President never denied making those statements, and the White House did not dispute the account, instead issuing a statement that said: “By grandstanding and politicizing the investigation into Russia’s actions, James Comey created unnecessary pressure on our ability to engage and negotiate with Russia. The investigation would have always continued, and obviously, the termination of Comey would not have ended it. Once again, the real story is that our national security has been undermined by the leaking of private and highly classified information."470 Hicks said that when she told the President about the reports on his meeting with Lavrov, he did not look concerned and said of Comey, “he is crazy.”471 When McGahn asked the President about his comments to Lavrov, the President said it was good that Comey was fired because that took the pressure off by making it clear that he was not under investigation so he could get more work done.472That same morning, on May 10, 2017, the President called McCabe.473 According to a memorandum McCabe wrote following the call, the President asked McCabe to come over to the White House to discuss whether the President should visit FBI headquarters and make a speech to467 See, e.g., Sarah Sanders, White House Daily Briefing, C-SPAN (May 10, 2017); SCR013_001088 (5/10/17 Email, Hemming to Cheung et al.) (internal White House email describing comments on the Comey termination by Vice President Pence).468 SCR08 000353 (5/9/17 White House Document, “Working Visit with Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov of Russia”); SCR08_001274 (5/10/17 Email, Ciaramella to Kelly et al.). The meeting had been planned on May 2, 2017, during a telephone call between the President and Russian President Vladimir Putin, and the meeting date was confirmed on May 5, 2017, the same day the President dictated ideas for the Comey termination letter to Stephen Miller. SCR08_001274 (5/10/17 Email, Ciaramella to Kelly et al.).469 Matt Apuzzo et al., Trump Told Russians That Firing “Nut Job” Comey Eased Pressure From Investigation, New York Times (May 19, 2017).470 SCR08_002117 (5/19/17 Email, Walters to Farhi (CBS News); see Spicer 10/16/17 302, at 13 (noting he would have been told to “clean it up” if the reporting on the meeting with the Russian Foreign Minister was inaccurate, but he was never told to correct the reporting); Hicks 12/8/17 302, at 19 (recalling that the President never denied making the statements attributed to him in the Lavrov meeting and that the President had said similar things about Comey in an off-the-record meeting with reporters on May 18, 2017, calling Comey a “nut job” and “crazy”).471 Hicks 12/8/17 302, at 19.472 McGahn 12/12/17 302, at 18.473 SCR025 000046 (President’s Daily Diary, 5/10/17); McCabe 5/10/17 Memorandum, at 1.Vol. 2, Page 71employees.474 The President said he had received “hundreds” of messages from FBI employees indicating their support for terminating Comey.475 The President also told McCabe that Comey should not have been permitted to travel back to Washington, D.C. on the FBI’s airplane after he had been terminated and that he did not want Comey “in the building again,” even to collect his belongings.476 When McCabe met with the President that afternoon, the President, without prompting, told McCabe that people in the FBI loved the President, estimated that at least 80% of the FBI had voted for him, and asked McCabe who he had voted for in the 2016 presidential election.477In the afternoon of May 10, 2017, deputy press secretary Sarah Sanders spoke to the President about his decision to fire Comey and then spoke to reporters in a televised press conference.478 Sanders told reporters that the President, the Department of Justice, and bipartisan members of Congress had lost confidence in Comey, “[a]nd most importantly, the rank and file of the FBI had lost confidence in their director. Accordingly, the President accepted the recommendation of his Deputy Attorney General to remove James Comey from his position.”479 In response to questions from reporters, Sanders said that Rosenstein decided “on his own” to review Comey’s performance and that Rosenstein decided “on his own” to come to the President on Monday, May 8 to express his concerns about Comey. When a reporter indicated that the “vast majority” of FBI agents supported Comey, Sanders said, “Look, we’ve heard from countless members of the FBI that say very different things.”480 Following the press conference, Sanders spoke to the President, who told her she did a good job and did not point out any inaccuracies in her comments.481 Sanders told this Office that her reference to hearing from “countless members of the FBI” was a “slip of the tongue.”482 She also recalled that her statement in a separate press interview that rank-and-file FBI agents had lost confidence in Comey was a comment she made “in the heat of the moment that was not founded on anything.483Also on May 10, 2017, Sessions and Rosenstein each spoke to McGahn and expressed concern that the White House was creating a narrative that Rosenstein had initiated the decision to474 McCabe 5/10/17 Memorandum, at 1.475 McCabe 5/10/17 Memorandum, at 1.476 McCabe 5/10/17 Memorandum, at 1; Rybicki 6/13/17 302, at 2. Comey had been visiting the FBI’s Los Angeles office when he found out he had been terminated. Comey 11/15/17 302, at 22.477McCabe 5/10/17 Memorandum, at 1-2. McCabe’s memorandum documenting his meeting with the President is consistent with notes taken by the White House Counsel’s Office. See SC_AD_00347 (Donaldson 5/10/17 Notes).478 Sanders 7/3/18 302, at 4; Sarah Sanders, White House Daily Briefing, C-SPAN (May 10, 2017).479 Sarah Sanders, White House Daily Briefing, C-SPAN (May 10, 2017); Sanders 7/3/18 302, at 4.480 Sarah Sanders, White House Daily Briefing, C-SPAN (May 10, 2017).481 Sanders 7/3/18 302, at 4.482 Sanders 7/3/18 302, at 4.483 Sanders 7/3/18 302, at 3.Vol. 2, Page 72fire Comey.484 The White House Counsel’’s Office agreed that it was factually wrong to say that the Department of Justice had initiated Comey’s termination,485 and McGahn asked attorneys in the White House Counsel’s Office to work with the press office to correct the narrative.486The next day, on May 11, 2017, the President participated in an interview with Lester Holt. The President told White House Counsel’s Office attorneys in advance of the interview that the communications team could not get the story right, so he was going on Lester Holt to say what really happened.487 During the interview, the President stated that he had made the decision to fire Comey before the President met with Rosenstein and Sessions. The President told Holt, “I was going to fire regardless of recommendation .... [Rosenstein] made a recommendation. But regardless of recommendation, I was going to fire Comey knowing there was no good time to do it.”488 The President continued, “And in fact, when I decided to just do it, I said to myself — I said, you know, this Russia thing with Trump and Russia is a made-up story. It’s an excuse by the Democrats for having lost an election that they should’ve won.”489In response to a question about whether he was angry with Comey about the Russia investigation, the President said, “As far as I’m concerned, I want that thing to be absolutely done properly.”490 The President added that he realized his termination of Comey “probably maybe will confuse people” with the result that it might even lengthen out the investigation,” but he “ha[d] to do the right thing for the American people” and Comey was “the wrong man for that position. “491 The President described Comey as “a showboat” and “a grandstander,” said that “[t]he FBI has been in turmoil,” and said he wanted “to have a really competent, capable director.”492 The President affirmed that he expected the new FBI director to continue the Russia investigation.493On the evening of May 11, 2017, following the Lester Holt interview, the President tweeted, “Russia must be laughing up their sleeves watching as the U.S. tears itself apart over a Democrat EXCUSE for losing the election.”494 The same day, the media reported that the President had demanded that Comey pledge his loyalty to the President in a private dinner shortly484 McGahn 12/12/17 302, at 16-17; Donaldson 11/6/17 302, at 26; see Dhillon 11/21/17 302, at 11.485 Donaldson 11/6/17 302, at 27.486 McGahn 12/12/17 302, at 17.487 Dhillon 11/21/17 302, at 11.488 Interview with President Donald Trump, NBC (May 11, 2017) Transcript, at 2.489 Interview with President Donald Trump, NBC (May 11, 2017) Transcript, at 2.490 Interview with President Donald Trump, NBC (May 11, 2017) Transcript, at 3.491 Interview with President Donald Trump, NBC (May 11, 2017) Transcript, at 3.492 Interview with President Donald Trump, NBC (May 11, 2017) Transcript, at 1, 5.493 Interview with President Donald Trump, NBC (May 11, 2017) Transcript, at 7.494 @realDonald Trump 5/11/17 (4:34 p.m. ET) Tweet.Vol. 2, Page 73after being sworn in.495 Late in the morning of May 12, 2017, the President tweeted, “Again, the story that there was collusion between the Russians &amp; Trump campaign was fabricated by Dems as an excuse for losing the election.”496 The President also tweeted, “James Comey better hope that there are no ‘tapes’ of our conversations before he starts leaking to the press!” and “When James Clapper himself, and virtually everyone else with knowledge of the witch hunt, says there is no collusion, when does it end?”497In analyzing the President’s decision to fire Comey, the following evidence is relevant to the elements of obstruction of justice:a. Obstructive act. The act of firing Comey removed the individual overseeing the FBI’s Russia investigation. The President knew that Comey was personally involved in the investigation based on Comey’s briefing of the Gang of Eight, Comey’s March 20, 2017 public testimony about the investigation, and the President’s one-on-one conversations with Comey.Firing Comey would qualify as an obstructive act if it had the natural and probable effect of interfering with or impeding the investigation-for example, if the termination would have the effect of delaying or disrupting the investigation or providing the President with the opportunity to appoint a director who would take a different approach to the investigation that the President perceived as more protective of his personal interests. Relevant circumstances bearing on that issue include whether the President’s actions had the potential to discourage a successor director or other law enforcement officials in their conduct of the Russia investigation. The President fired Comey abruptly without offering him an opportunity to resign, banned him from the FBI building, and criticized him publicly, calling him a “showboat” and claiming that the FBI was “in turmoil” under his leadership. And the President followed the termination with public statements that were highly critical of the investigation; for example, three days after firing Comey, the President referred to the investigation as a “witch hunt” and asked, “when does it end?” Those actions had the potential to affect a successor director’s conduct of the investigation.The anticipated effect of removing the FBI director, however, would not necessarily be to prevent or impede the FBI from continuing its investigation. As a general matter, FBI investigations run under the operational direction of FBI personnel levels below the FBI director. Bannon made a similar point when he told the President that he could fire the FBI director, but could not fire the FBI. The White House issued a press statement the day after Comey was fired that said, “The investigation would have always continued, and obviously, the termination of Comey would not have ended it.” In addition, in his May 11 interview with Lester Holt, the President stated that he understood when he made the decision to fire Comey that the action might prolong the investigation. And the President chose McCabe to serve as interim director, even495Michael S. Schmidt, In a Private Dinner, Trump Demanded Loyalty. Comey Demurred., New York Times (May 11, 2017).496 @realDonaldTrump 5/12/17 (7:51 a.m. ET) Tweet.497 @realDonaldTrump 5/12/17 (8:26 a.m. ET) Tweet; @realDonaldTrump 5/12/17 (8:54 a.m. ET) Tweet.Vol. 2, Page 74though McCabe told the President he had worked “very closely” with Comey and was part of all the decisions made in the Clinton investigation.b. Nexus to a proceeding. The nexus element would be satisfied by evidence showing that a grand jury proceeding or criminal prosecution arising from an FBI investigation was objectively foreseeable and actually contemplated by the President when he terminated Comey.Several facts would be relevant to such a showing. At the time the President fired Comey, a grand jury had not begun to hear evidence related to the Russia investigation and no grand jury subpoenas had been issued. On March 20, 2017, however, Comey had announced that the FBI was investigating Russia’s interference in the election, including an assessment of whether any crimes were committed.” It was widely known that the FBI, as part of the Russia investigation, was investigating the hacking of the DNC’s computers — a clear criminal offense.In addition, at the time the President fired Comey, evidence indicates the President knew that Flynn was still under criminal investigation and could potentially be prosecuted, despite the President’s February 14, 2017 request that Comey “let[] Flynn go.” On March 5, 2017, the White House Counsel’s Office was informed that the FBI was asking for transition-period records relating to Flynn-indicating that the FBI was still actively investigating him. The same day, the President told advisors he wanted to call Dana Boente, then the Acting Attorney General for the Russia investigation, to find out whether the White House or the President was being investigated. On March 31, 2017, the President signaled his awareness that Flynn remained in legal jeopardy by tweeting that “Mike Flynn should ask for immunity” before he agreed to provide testimony to the FBI or Congress. And in late March or early April, the President asked McFarland to pass a message to Flynn telling him that the President felt bad for him and that he should stay strong, further demonstrating the President’s awareness of Flynn’s criminal exposure.c. Intent. Substantial evidence indicates that the catalyst for the President’s decision to fire Comey was Comey’s unwillingness to publicly state that the President was not personally under investigation, despite the President’s repeated requests that Comey make such an announcement.1 In the week leading up to Comey’s May 3, 2017 Senate Judiciary Committee testimony, the President told McGahn that it would be the last straw if Comey did not set the record straight and publicly announce that the President was not under investigation. But during his May 3 testimony, Comey refused to answer questions about whether the President was being investigated. Comey’s refusal angered the President, who criticized Sessions for leaving him isolated and exposed, saying “You left me on an island.” Two days later, the President told advisors he had decided to fire Comey and dictated a letter to Stephen Miller that began with a reference to the fact that the President was not being investigated: “While I greatly appreciate you informing me that I am not under investigation concerning what I have often stated is a fabricated story on a Trump-Russia relationship ....” The President later asked Rosenstein to include “Russia” in his memorandum and to say that Comey had told the President that he was not under investigation. And the President’s final termination letter included a sentence, at the President’s insistence and against McGahn’s advice, stating that Comey had told the President on three separate occasions that he was not under investigation.The President’s other stated rationales for why he fired Comey are not similarly supported by the evidence. The termination letter the President and Stephen Miller prepared in BedminsterVol. 2, Page 75cited Comey’s handling of the Clinton email investigation, and the President told McCabe he fired Comey for that reason. But the facts surrounding Comey’s handling of the Clinton email investigation were well known to the President at the time he assumed office, and the President had made it clear to both Comey and the President’s senior staff in early 2017 that he wanted Comey to stay on as director. And Rosenstein articulated his criticism of Comey’s handling of the Clinton investigation after the President had already decided to fire Comey. The President’s draft termination letter also stated that morale in the FBI was at an all-time low and Sanders told the press after Comey’s termination that the White House had heard from “countless” FBI agents who had lost confidence in Comey. But the evidence does not support those claims. The President told Comey at their January 27 dinner that “the people of the FBI really like [him],” no evidence suggests that the President heard otherwise before deciding to terminate Comey, and Sanders acknowledged to investigators that her comments were not founded on anything.We also considered why it was important to the President that Comey announce publicly that he was not under investigation. Some evidence indicates that the President believed that the erroneous perception he was under investigation harmed his ability to manage domestic and foreign affairs, particularly in dealings with Russia. The President told Comey that the “cloud” of “this Russia business” was making it difficult to run the country. The President told Sessions and McGahn that foreign leaders had expressed sympathy to him for being under investigation and that the perception he was under investigation was hurting his ability to address foreign relations issues. The President complained to Rogers that “the thing with the Russians [was) messing up” his ability to get things done with Russia, and told Coats, “I can’t do anything with Russia, there’s things I’d like to do with Russia, with trade, with ISIS, they’re all over me with this.” The President also may have viewed Comey as insubordinate for his failure to make clear in the May 3 testimony that the President was not under investigation.Other evidence, however, indicates that the President wanted to protect himself from an investigation into his campaign. The day after learning about the FBI’s interview of Flynn, the President had a one-on-one dinner with Comey, against the advice of senior aides, and told Comey he needed Comey’s “loyalty.” When the President later asked Comey for a second time to make public that he was not under investigation, he brought up loyalty again, saying “Because I have been very loyal to you, very loyal, we had that thing, you know.” After the President learned of Sessions’s recusal from the Russia investigation, the President was furious and said he wanted an Attorney General who would protect him the way he perceived Robert Kennedy and Eric Holder to have protected their presidents. The President also said he wanted to be able to tell his Attorney General “who to investigate.”In addition, the President had a motive to put the FBI’s Russia investigation behind him. The evidence does not establish that the termination of Comey was designed to cover up a conspiracy between the Trump Campaign and Russia: As described in Volume I, the evidence uncovered in the investigation did not establish that the President or those close to him were involved in the charged Russian computer-hacking or active-measure conspiracies, or that the President otherwise had an unlawful relationship with any Russian official. But the evidence does indicate that a thorough FBI investigation would uncover facts about the campaign and the President personally that the President could have understood to be crimes or that would give rise to personal and political concerns. Although the President publicly stated during and after the election that he had no connection to Russia, the Trump Organization, through Michael Cohen,Vol. 2, Page 76was pursuing the proposed Trump Tower Moscow project through June 2016 and candidate Trump was repeatedly briefed on the progress of those efforts.498 In addition, some witnesses said that Trump was aware that■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ at a time when public reports stated that Russian intelligence officials were behind the hacks, and that Trump privately sought information about future WikiLeaks releases.499 More broadly, multiple witnesses described the President’s preoccupation with press coverage of the Russia investigation and his persistent concern that it raised questions about the legitimacy of his election.500Finally, the President and White House aides initially advanced a pretextual reason to the press and the public for Comey’s termination. In the immediate aftermath of the firing, the President dictated a press statement suggesting that he had acted based on the DOJ recommendations, and White House press officials repeated that story. But the President had decided to fire Comey before the White House solicited those recommendations. Although the President ultimately acknowledged that he was going to fire Comey regardless of the Department of Justice’s recommendations, he did so only after DOJ officials made clear to him that they would resist the White House’s suggestion that they had prompted the process that led to Comey’s termination. The initial reliance on a pretextual justification could support an inference that the President had concerns about providing the real reason for the firing, although the evidence does not resolve whether those concerns were personal, political, or both. 1The Acting Attorney General appointed a Special Counsel on May 17, 2017, prompting the President to state that it was the end of his presidency and that Attorney General Sessions had failed to protect him and should resign. Sessions submitted his resignation, which the President ultimately did not accept. The President told senior advisors that the Special Counsel had conflicts of interest, but they responded that those claims were “ridiculous” and posed no obstacle to the Special Counsel’s service. Department of Justice ethics officials similarly cleared the Special Counsel’s service. On June 14, 2017, the press reported that the President was being personally investigated for obstruction of justice and the President responded with a series of tweets498 See Volume II, Section II.K.1, infra.499 See Volume I, Section III.D.1, supra.500 In addition to whether the President had a motive related to Russia-related matters that an FBI investigation could uncover, we considered whether the President’s intent in firing Comey was connected to other conduct that could come to light as a result of the FBI’s Russian-interference investigation. In particular, Michael Cohen was a potential subject of investigation because of his pursuit of the Trump Tower Moscow project and involvement in other activities. And facts uncovered in the Russia investigation, which our Office referred to the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York, ultimately led to the conviction of Cohen in the Southern District of New York for campaign-finance offenses related to payments he said he made at the direction of the President. See Volume II, Section II.K.5, infra. The investigation, however, did not establish that when the President fired Comey, he was considering the possibility that the FBI’s investigation would uncover these payments or that the President’s intent in firing Comey was otherwise connected to a concern about these matters coming to light.Vol. 2, Page 77criticizing the Special Counsel’s investigation. That weekend, the President called McGahn and directed him to have the Special Counsel removed because of asserted conflicts of interest. McGahn did not carry out the instruction for fear of being seen as triggering another Saturday Night Massacre and instead prepared to resign. McGahn ultimately did not quit and the President did not follow up with McGahn on his request to have the Special Counsel removed.On May 17, 2017, Acting Attorney General Rosenstein appointed Robert S. Mueller, III as Special Counsel and authorized him to conduct the Russia investigation and matters that arose from the investigation.501 The President learned of the Special Counsel’s appointment from Sessions, who was with the President, Hunt, and McGahn conducting interviews for a new FBI Director. 502 Sessions stepped out of the Oval Office to take a call from Rosenstein, who told him about the Special Counsel appointment, and Sessions then returned to inform the President of the news.503 According to notes written by Hunt, when Sessions told the President that a Special Counsel had been appointed, the President slumped back in his chair and said, “Oh my God. This is terrible. This is the end of my Presidency. I’m fucked.”504 The President became angry and lambasted the Attorney General for his decision to recuse from the investigation, stating, “How could you let this happen, Jeff?”505 The President said the position of Attorney General was his most important appointment and that Sessions had “let [him) down,” contrasting him to Eric Holder and Robert Kennedy.506 Sessions recalled that the President said to him, “you were supposed to protect me,” or words to that effect.507 The President returned to the consequences of the appointment and said, “Everyone tells me if you get one of these independent counsels it ruins your presidency. It takes years and years and I won’t be able to do anything. This is the worst thing that ever happened to me.”508501 Office of the Deputy Attorney General, Order No. 3915-2017, Appointment of Special Counsel to Investigate Russian Interference with the 2016 Presidential Election and Related Matters (May 17, 2017).502 Sessions 1/17/18 302, at 13; Hunt 2/1/18 302, at 18; McGahn 12/14/17 302, at 4; Hunt-000039 (Hunt 5/17/17 Notes).503 Sessions 1/17/18 302, at 13; Hunt 2/1/18 302, at 18; McGahn 12/14/17 302, at 4; Hunt-000039 (Hunt 5/17/17 Notes).504 Hunt-000039 (Hunt 5/17/17 Notes).505 Hunt-000039 (Hunt 5/17/17 Notes); Sessions 1/17/18 302, at 13-14.506 Hunt-000040; see Sessions 1/17/18 302, at 14.507 Sessions 1/17/18 302, at 14.508 Hunt-000040 (Hunt 5/17/17 Notes); see Sessions 1/17/18 302, at 14. Early the next morning, the President tweeted, “This is the single greatest witch hunt of a politician in American history!” @realDonaldTrump 5/18/17 (7:52 a.m. ET) Tweet.Vol. 2, Page 78The President then told Sessions he should resign as Attorney General.509 Sessions agreed to submit his resignation and left the Oval Office.510 Hicks saw the President shortly after Sessions departed and described the President as being extremely upset by the Special Counsel’s appointment.511 Hicks said that she had only seen the President like that one other time, when the Access Hollywood tape came out during the campaign. 512The next day, May 18, 2017, FBI agents delivered to McGahn a preservation notice that discussed an investigation related to Comey’s termination and directed the White House to preserve all relevant documents.513 When he received the letter, McGahn issued a document hold to White House staff and instructed them not to send out any burn bags over the weekend while he sorted things out. 514Also on May 18, Sessions finalized a resignation letter that stated, “Pursuant to our conversation of yesterday, and at your request, I hereby offer my resignation.”515 Sessions, accompanied by Hunt, brought the letter to the White House and handed it to the President.516 The President put the resignation letter in his pocket and asked Sessions several times whether he wanted to continue serving as Attorney General.517 Sessions ultimately told the President he wanted to stay, but it was up to the President.518 The President said he wanted Sessions to stay.519 At the conclusion of the meeting, the President shook Sessions’s hand but did not return the resignation letter.520When Priebus and Bannon learned that the President was holding onto Sessions’s resignation letter, they became concerned that it could be used to influence the Department of Justice.521 Priebus told Sessions it was not good for the President to have the letter because it509 Hunt-000041 (Hunt 5/17/17 Notes); Sessions 1/17/18 302, at 14.510 Hunt-000041 (Hunt 5/17/17 Notes); Sessions 1/17/18 302, at 14.511 Hicks 12/8/17 302, at 21.512 Hicks 12/8/17 302, at 21. The Access Hollywood tape was released on October 7, 2016, as discussed in Volume I, Section III.D.1, supra.513 McGahn 12/14/17 302, at 9; SCR015 000175-82 (Undated Draft Memoranda to White House Staff).514 McGahn 12/14/17 302, at 9; SCR015_000175-82 (Undated Draft Memoranda to White House Staff). The White House Counsel’s Office had previously issued a document hold on February 27, 2017. SCR015_000171 (2/17/17 Memorandum from McGahn to Executive Office of the President Staff).515 Hunt-000047 (Hunt 5/18/17 Notes); 5/18/17 Letter, Sessions to President Trump (resigning as Attorney General).516 Hunt-000047-49 (Hunt 5/18/17 Notes); Sessions 1/17/18 302, at 14.517 Hunt-000047-49 (Hunt 5/18/17 Notes); Sessions 1/17/18 302, at 14.518 Hunt-000048-49 (Hunt 5/18/17 Notes); Sessions 1/17/18 302, at 14.519 Sessions 1/17/18 302, at 14.520 Hunt-000049 (Hunt 5/18/17 Notes).521 Hunt-000050-51 (Hunt 5/18/17 Notes).Vol. 2, Page 79would function as a kind of “shock collar” that the President could use any time he wanted; Priebus said the President had “DOJ by the throat.”522 Priebus and Bannon told Sessions they would attempt to get the letter back from the President with a notation that he was not accepting Sessions’s resignation.”523On May 19, 2017, the President left for a trip to the Middle East.524 Hicks recalled that on the President’s flight from Saudi Arabia to Tel Aviv, the President pulled Sessions’s resignation letter from his pocket, showed it to a group of senior advisors, and asked them what he should do about it.525 During the trip, Priebus asked about the resignation letter so he could return it to Sessions, but the President told him that the letter was back at the White House, somewhere in the residence.526 It was not until May 30, three days after the President returned from the trip, that the President returned the letter to Sessions with a notation saying, “Not accepted.”527In the days following the Special Counsel’s appointment, the President repeatedly told advisors, including Priebus, Bannon, and McGahn, that Special Counsel Mueller had conflicts of interest.528 The President cited as conflicts that Mueller had interviewed for the FBI Director position shortly before being appointed as Special Counsel, that he had worked for a law firm that represented people affiliated with the President, and that Mueller had disputed certain fees relating to his membership in a Trump golf course in Northern Virginia.529 The President’s advisors pushed522 Hunt-000050 (Hunt 5/18/17 Notes); Priebus 10/13/17 302, at 21; Hunt 2/1/18 302, at 21.523 Hunt-000051 (Hunt 5/18/17 Notes).524 SCR026_000110 (President’s Daily Diary, 5/19/17).525 Hicks 12/8/17 302, at 22.526 Priebus 10/13/17 302, at 21. Hunt’s notes state that when Priebus returned from the trip, Priebus told Hunt that the President was supposed to have given him the letter, but when he asked for it, the President “slapped the desk” and said he had forgotten it back at the hotel. Hunt-000052 (Hunt Notes, undated).527 Hunt-000052-53 (Hunt 5/30/17 Notes); 5/18/17 Letter, Sessions to President Trump (resignation letter). Robert Porter, who was the White House Staff Secretary at the time, said that in the days after the President returned from the Middle East trip, the President took Sessions’s letter out of a drawer in the Oval Office and showed it to Porter. Porter 4/13/18 302, at 8. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■528 Priebus 1/18/18 302, at 12; Bannon 2/14/18 302, at 10; McGahn 3/8/18 302, at 1; McGahn 12/14/17 302, at 10; Bannon 10/26/18 302, at 12.529 Priebus 1/18/18 302, at 12; Bannon 2/14/18 302, at 10. In October 2011, Mueller resigned his family’s membership from Trump National Golf Club in Sterling, Virginia, in a letter that noted that “we live in the District and find that we are unable to make full use of the Club” and that inquired “whether we would be entitled to a refund of a portion of our initial membership fee,” which was paid in 1994. 10/12/11 Letter, Muellers to Trump National Golf Club. About two weeks later, the controller of the club responded that the Muellers’ resignation would be effective October 31, 2011, and that they would be “placed on a waitlist to be refunded on a first resigned / first refunded basis” in accordance with the club’s legalVol. 2, Page 80back on his assertion of conflicts, telling the President they did not count as true conflicts.530 Bannon recalled telling the President that the purported conflicts were “ridiculous” and that none of them was real or could come close to justifying precluding Mueller from serving as Special Counsel.531 As for Mueller’s interview for FBI Director, Bannon recalled that the White House had invited Mueller to speak to the President to offer a perspective on the institution of the FBI.532 Bannon said that, although the White House thought about beseeching Mueller to become Director again, he did not come in looking for the job.533 Bannon also told the President that the law firm position did not amount to a conflict in the legal community.534 And Bannon told the President that the golf course dispute did not rise to the level of a conflict and claiming one was “ridiculous and petty.”535 The President did not respond when Bannon pushed back on the stated conflicts of interest.536On May 23, 2017, the Department of Justice announced that ethics officials had determined that the Special Counsel’s prior law firm position did not bar his service, generating media reports that Mueller had been cleared to serve.537 McGahn recalled that around the same time, the President complained about the asserted conflicts and prodded McGahn to reach out to Rosenstein about the issue.538 McGahn said he responded that he could not make such a call and that the President should instead consult his personal lawyer because it was not a White House issue.539 Contemporaneous notes of a May 23, 2017 conversation between McGahn and the President reflect that McGahn told the President that he would not call Rosenstein and that he would suggest that the President not make such a call either.540 McGahn advised that the President could discuss the issue with his personal attorney but it would “look like still trying to meddle in [the] investigation” and “knocking out Mueller” would be “[a]nother fact used to claim obst[ruction ofdocuments. 10/27/11 Letter, Muellers to Trump National Golf Club. The Muellers have not had further contact with the club.530 Priebus 4/3/18 302, at 3; Bannon 10/26/18 302, at 13 (confirming that he, Priebus, and McGahn pushed back on the asserted conflicts).531 Bannon 10/26/18 302, at 12-13.532 Bannon 10/26/18 302, at 12.533 Bannon 10/26/18 302, at 12.534 Bannon 10/26/18 302, at 12.535 Bannon 10/26/18 302, at 13.536 Bannon 10/26/18 302, at 12.537 Matt Zapotosky &amp; Matea Gold, Justice Department ethics experts clear Mueller to lead Russia probe, Washington Post (May 23, 2017).538 McGahn 3/8/18 302, at 1; McGahn 12/14/17 302, at 10; Priebus 1/18/18 302, at 12.539 McGahn 3/8/18 302, at 1. McGahn and Donaldson said that after the appointment of the Special Counsel, they considered themselves potential fact witnesses and accordingly told the President that inquiries related to the investigation should be brought to his personal counsel. McGahn 12/14/17 302, at 7; Donaldson 4/2/18 302, at 5.540 SC AD 00361 (Donaldson 5/31/17 Notes).Vol. 2, Page 81just[ice].”541 McGahn told the President that his “biggest exposure” was not his act of firing Comey but his “other contacts” and “calls,” and his “ask re: Flynn."542 By the time McGahn provided this advice to the President, there had been widespread reporting on the President’s request for Comey’s loyalty, which the President publicly denied; his request that Comey “let[] Flynn go,” which the President also denied; and the President’s statement to the Russian Foreign Minister that the termination of Comey had relieved “great pressure” related to Russia, which the President did not deny.543On June 8, 2017, Comey testified before Congress about his interactions with the President before his termination, including the request for loyalty, the request that Comey “let[] Flynn go,” and the request that Comey “lift the cloud” over the presidency caused by the ongoing investigation.544 Comey’s testimony led to a series of news reports about whether the President had obstructed justice.545 On June 9, 2017, the Special Counsel’s Office informed the White House Counsel’s Office that investigators intended to interview intelligence community officials who had allegedly been asked by the President to push back against the Russia investigation.546On Monday, June 12, 2017, Christopher Ruddy, the chief executive of Newsmax Media and a longtime friend of the President’s, met at the White House with Priebus and Bannon.547 Ruddy recalled that they told him the President was strongly considering firing the Special Counsel541 SC_AD_00361 (Donaldson 5/31/17 Notes).542 SC_AD_00361 (Donaldson 5/31/17 Notes).543 See, e.g., Michael S. Schmidt, In a Private Dinner, Trump Demanded Loyalty. Comey Demurred., New York Times (May 11, 2017); Michael S. Schmidt, Comey Memorandum Says Trump Asked Him to End Flynn Investigation, New York Times (May 16, 2017); Matt Apuzzo et al., Trump Told Russians That Firing ’Nut Job’ Comey Eased Pressure From Investigation, New York Times (May 19, 2017).544 Hearing on Russian Election Interference Before the Senate Select Intelligence Committee, 115th Cong. (June 8, 2017) (Statement for the Record of James B. Comey, former Director of the FBI, at 5-6). Comey testified that he deliberately caused his memorandum documenting the February 14, 2017 meeting to be leaked to the New York Times in response to a tweet from the President, sent on May 12, 2017, that stated “James Comey better hope that there are no ‘tapes’ of our conversations before he starts leaking to the press!,” and because he thought sharing the memorandum with a reporter “might prompt the appointment of a special counsel.” Hearing on Russian Election Interference Before the Senate Select Intelligence Committee, 115th Cong. (June 8, 2017) (CQ Cong. Transcripts, at 55) (testimony by James B. Comey, former Director of the FBI).545 See, e.g., Matt Zapotosky, Comey lays out the case that Trump obstructed justice, Washington Post (June 8, 2017) (“Legal analysts said Comey’s testimony clarified and bolstered the case that the president obstructed justice.”).546 6/9/17 Email, Special Counsel’s Office to the White House Counsel’s Office. This Office made the notification to give the White House an opportunity to invoke executive privilege in advance of the interviews. On June 12, 2017, the Special Counsel’s Office interviewed Admiral Rogers in the presence of agency counsel. Rogers 6/12/17 302, at 1. On June 13, the Special Counsel’s Office interviewed Ledgett. Ledgett 6/13/17 302, at 1. On June 14, the Office interviewed Coats and other personnel from his office. Coats 6/14/17 302, at 1; Gistaro 6/14/17 302, at 1; Culver 6/14/17 302, at 1.547 Ruddy 6/6/18 302, at 5.Vol. 2, Page 82and that he would do so precipitously, without vetting the decision through Administration officials.548 Ruddy asked Priebus if Ruddy could talk publicly about the discussion they had about the Special Counsel, and Priebus said he could.549 Priebus told Ruddy he hoped another blow up like the one that followed the termination of Comey did not happen.550 Later that day, Ruddy stated in a televised interview that the President was “considering perhaps terminating the Special Counsel” based on purported conflicts of interest.551 Ruddy later told another news outlet that “Trump is definitely considering” terminating the Special Counsel and “it’s not something that’s being dismissed."552 Ruddy’s comments led to extensive coverage in the media that the President was considering firing the Special Counsel.553White House officials were unhappy with that press coverage and Ruddy heard from friends that the President was upset with him.554 On June 13, 2017, Sanders asked the President for guidance on how to respond to press inquiries about the possible firing of the Special Counsel."555 The President dictated an answer, which Sanders delivered, saying that “[w]hile the president has every right to” fire the Special Counsel, “he has no intention to do so.”556Also on June 13, 2017, the President’s personal counsel contacted the Special Counsel’s Office and raised concerns about possible conflicts.557 The President’s counsel cited Mueller’s previous partnership in his law firm, his interview for the FBI Director position, and an asserted personal relationship he had with Comey.558 That same day, Rosenstein had testified publicly before Congress and said he saw no evidence of good cause to terminate the Special Counsel, including for conflicts of interest.559 Two days later, on June 15, 2017, the Special Counsel’s548 Ruddy 6/6/18 302, at 5-6.549 Ruddy 6/6/18 302, at 6.550 Ruddy 6/6/18 302, at 6.551 Trump Confidant Christopher Ruddy says Mueller has “real conflicts” as special counsel, PBS (June 12, 2017); Michael D. Shear &amp; Maggie Haberman, Friend Says Trump Is Considering Firing Mueller as Special Counsel, New York Times (June 12, 2017).552 Katherine Faulders &amp; Veronica Stracqualursi, Trump friend Chris Ruddy says Spicer’s ‘bizarre’ statement doesn’t deny claim Trump seeking Mueller firing, ABC (June 13, 2017).553 See, e.g., Michael D. Shear &amp; Maggie Haberman, Friend Says Trump Is Considering Firing Mueller as Special Counsel, New York Times (June 12, 2017).554 Ruddy 6/6/18 302, at 6-7.555 Sanders 7/3/18 302, at 6-7.556 Glenn Thrush et al., Trump Stews, Staff Steps In, and Mueller Is Safe for Now, New York Times (June 13, 2017); see Sanders 7/3/18 302, at 6 (Sanders spoke with the President directly before speaking to the press on Air Force One and the answer she gave is the answer the President told her to give).557 Special Counsel’s Office Attorney 6/13/17 Notes.558 Special Counsel’s Office Attorney 6/13/17 Notes.559 Hearing on Fiscal 2018 Justice Department Budget before the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, and Science, 115th Cong. (June 13, 2017) (CQ Cong. Transcripts, at 14) (testimony by Rod Rosenstein, Deputy Attorney General).Vol. 2, Page 83Office informed the Acting Attorney General’s office about the areas of concern raised by the President’s counsel and told the President’s counsel that their concerns had been communicated to Rosenstein so that the Department of Justice could take any appropriate action.560On the evening of June 14, 2017, the Washington Post published an article stating that the Special Counsel was investigating whether the President had attempted to obstruct justice.561 This was the first public report that the President himself was under investigation by the Special Counsel’s Office, and cable news networks quickly picked up on the report.562 The Post story stated that the Special Counsel was interviewing intelligence community leaders, including Coats and Rogers, about what the President had asked them to do in response to Comey’s March 20, 2017 testimony; that the inquiry into obstruction marked “a major turning point in the investigation; and that while “Trump had received private assurances from then-FBI Director James B. Comey starting in January that he was not personally under investigation,” “[o]fficials say that changed shortly after Comey’s firing.”563 That evening, at approximately 10:31 p.m., the President called McGahn on McGahn’s personal cell phone and they spoke for about 15 minutes.564 McGahn did not have a clear memory of the call but thought they might have discussed the stories reporting that the President was under investigation.565Beginning early the next day, June 15, 2017, the President issued a series of tweets acknowledging the existence of the obstruction investigation and criticizing it. He wrote: “They made up a phony collusion with the Russians story, found zero proof, so now they go for obstruction of justice on the phony story. Nice”;566 “You are witnessing the single greatest WITCH HUNT in American political history — led by some very bad and conflicted people!”,567 and “Crooked H destroyed phones w/ hammer, ’bleached’ emails, &amp; had husband meet w/AG days560 Special Counsel’s Office Attorney 6/15/17 Notes.561 Devlin Barrett et al., Special counsel is investigating Trump for possible obstruction of justice, officials say, Washington Post (June 14, 2017).562 CNN, for example, began running a chyron at 6:55 p.m. that stated: “WASH POST: MUELLER INVESTIGATING TRUMP FOR OBSTRUCTION OF JUSTICE.” CNN, (June 14, 2017, published online at 7:15 p.m. ET).563 Devlin Barrett et al., Special counsel is investigating Trump for possible obstruction of justice, officials say, Washington Post (June 14, 2017).564 SCR026 000183 (President’s Daily Diary, 6/14/17) (reflecting call from the President to McGahn on 6/14/17 with start time 10:31 p.m. and end time 10:46 p.m.); Call Records of Don McGahn.565 McGahn 2/28/19 302, at 1-2. McGahn thought he and the President also probably talked about the investiture ceremony for Supreme Court Justice Neil Gorsuch, which was scheduled for the following day. McGahn 2/28/18 302, at 2.566 @realDonaldTrump 6/15/17 (6:55 a.m. ET) Tweet.567 @realDonaldTrump 6/15/17 (7:57 a.m. ET) Tweet.Vol. 2, Page 84before she was cleared &amp; they talk about obstruction?”568 The next day, June 16, 2017, the President wrote additional tweets criticizing the investigation: “After 7 months of investigations &amp; committee hearings about my ‘collusion with the Russians,’ nobody has been able to show any proof. Sad!”,569 and “I am being investigated for firing the FBI Director by the man who told me to fire the FBI Director! Witch Hunt."570On Saturday, June 17, 2017, the President called McGahn and directed him to have the Special Counsel removed.571 McGahn was at home and the President was at Camp David.572 In interviews with this Office, McGahn recalled that the President called him at home twice and on both occasions directed him to call Rosenstein and say that Mueller had conflicts that precluded him from serving as Special Counsel.573On the first call, McGahn recalled that the President said something like, “You gotta do this. You gotta call Rod."574 McGahn said he told the President that he would see what he could do.575 McGahn was perturbed by the call and did not intend to act on the request.576 He and other advisors believed the asserted conflicts were “silly” and “not real,” and they had previously communicated that view to the President.577 McGahn also had made clear to the President that the White House Counsel’s Office should not be involved in any effort to press the issue of conflicts.578 McGahn was concerned about having any role in asking the Acting Attorney General to fire the Special Counsel because he had grown up in the Reagan era and wanted to be more like Judge568 @realDonaldTrump 6/15/17 (3:56 p.m. ET) Tweet.569 @realDonaldTrump 6/16/17 (7:53 a.m. ET) Tweet.570 @realDonaldTrump 6/16/17 (9:07 a.m. ET) Tweet.571 McGahn 3/8/18 302, at 1-2; McGahn 12/14/17 302, at 10.572 McGahn 3/8/18 302, at 1, 3; SCR026 000196 (President’s Daily Diary, 6/17/17) (records showing President departed the White House at 11:07 a.m. on June 17, 2017, and arrived at Camp David at 11:37 a.m.).572 McGahn 3/8/18 302, at 1-2; McGahn 12/14/17 302, at 10. Phone records show that the President called McGahn in the afternoon on June 17, 2017, and they spoke for approximately 23 minutes. SCR026_000196 (President’s Daily Diary, 6/17/17) (reflecting call from the President to McGahn on 6/17/17 with start time 2:23 p.m. and end time 2:46 p.m.); (Call Records of Don McGahn). Phone records do not show another call between McGahn and the President that day. Although McGahn recalled receiving multiple calls from the President on the same day, in light of the phone records he thought it was possible that the first call instead occurred on June 14, 2017, shortly after the press reported that the President was under investigation for obstruction of justice. McGahn 2/28/19 302, at 1-3. While McGahn was not certain of the specific dates of the calls, McGahn was confident that he had at least two phone conversations with the President in which the President directed him to call the Acting Attorney General to have the Special Counsel removed. McGahn 2/28/19 302, at 1-3.574 McGahn 3/8/18 302, at 1.575 McGahn 3/8/18 302, at 1.576 McGahn 3/8/18 302, at 1.577 McGahn 3/8/18 302, at 1-2.578 McGahn 3/8/18 302, at 1-2.Vol. 2, Page 85Robert Bork and not “Saturday Night Massacre Bork."579 McGahn considered the President’s request to be an inflection point and he wanted to hit the brakes.580When the President called McGahn a second time to follow up on the order to call the Department of Justice, McGahn recalled that the President was more direct, saying something like, “Call Rod, tell Rod that Mueller has conflicts and can’t be the Special Counsel.”581 McGahn recalled the President telling him “Mueller has to go” and “Call me back when you do it.”582 McGahn understood the President to be saying that the Special Counsel had to be removed by Rosenstein.583 To end the conversation with the President, McGahn left the President with the impression that McGahn would call Rosenstein.584 McGahn recalled that he had already said no to the President’s request and he was worn down, so he just wanted to get off the phone.585McGahn recalled feeling trapped because he did not plan to follow the President’s directive but did not know what he would say the next time the President called.586 McGahn decided he had to resign.587 He called his personal lawyer and then called his chief of staff, Annie Donaldson, to inform her of his decision.588 He then drove to the office to pack his belongings and submit his resignation letter.589 Donaldson recalled that McGahn told her the President had called and demanded he contact the Department of Justice and that the President wanted him to do something that McGahn did not want to do.590 McGahn told Donaldson that the President had called at least twice and in one of the calls asked “have you done it?”591 McGahn did not tell Donaldson the specifics of the President’s request because he was consciously trying not to involve her in the579 McGahn 3/8/18 302, at 2.580 McGahn 3/8/18 302, at 2.581 McGahn 3/8/18 302, at 5.582 McGahn 3/8/18 302, at 2, 5; McGahn 2/28/19 302, at 3.583 McGahn 3/8/18 302, at 1-2,5.584 McGahn 3/8/18 302, at 2.585 McGahn 2/28/19 302, at 3; McGahn 3/8/18 302, at 2.586 McGahn 3/8/18 302, at 2.587 McGahn 3/8/18 302, at 2.588 McGahn 3/8/18 302, at 2-3; McGahn 2/28/19 302, at 3; Donaldson 4/2/18 302, at 4; Call Records of Don McGahn.589 McGahn 3/8/18 302, at 2; Donaldson 4/2/18 302, at 4.590 Donaldson 4/2/18 302, at 4.591 Donaldson 4/2/18 302, at 4.Vol. 2, Page 86investigation, but Donaldson inferred that the President’s directive was related to the Russia investigation.592 Donaldson prepared to resign along with McGahn.593That evening, McGahn called both Priebus and Bannon and told them that he intended to resign.594 McGahn recalled that, after speaking with his attorney and given the nature of the President’s request, he decided not to share details of the President’s request with other White House staff.595 Priebus recalled that McGahn said that the President had asked him to “do crazy shit,” but he thought McGahn did not tell him the specifics of the President’s request because McGahn was trying to protect Priebus from what he did not need to know.596 Priebus and Bannon both urged McGahn not to quit, and McGahn ultimately returned to work that Monday and remained in his position.597 He had not told the President directly that he planned to resign, and when they next saw each other the President did not ask McGahn whether he had followed through with calling Rosenstein.598Around the same time, Chris Christie recalled a telephone call with the President in which the President asked what Christie thought about the President firing the Special Counsel.599 Christie advised against doing so because there was no substantive basis for the President to fire the Special Counsel, and because the President would lose support from Republicans in Congress if he did so.600In analyzing the President’s direction to McGahn to have the Special Counsel removed, the following evidence is relevant to the elements of obstruction of justice:a. Obstructive act. As with the President’s firing of Comey, the attempt to remove the Special Counsel would qualify as an obstructive act if it would naturally obstruct the592 McGahn 2/28/19 302, at 3-4; Donaldson 4/2/18 302, at 4-5. Donaldson said she believed McGahn consciously did not share details with her because he did not want to drag her into the investigation. Donaldson 4/2/18 302, at 5; see McGahn 2/28/19 302, at 3.593 Donaldson 4/2/18 302, at 5.594 McGahn 12/14/17 302, at 10; Call Records of Don McGahn; McGahn 2/28/19 302, at 3-4; Priebus 4/3/18 302, at 6-7.595 McGahn 2/28/19 302, at 4. Priebus and Bannon confirmed that McGahn did not tell them the specific details of the President’s request. Priebus 4/3/18 302, at 7; Bannon 2/14/18 302, at 10.596 Priebus 4/3/18 302, at 7.597 McGahn 3/8/18 302, at 3; McGahn 2/28/19 302, at 3-4.598 McGahn 3/8/18 302, at 3.599 Christie 2/13/19 302, at 7. Christie did not recall the precise date of this call, but believed it was after Christopher Wray was announced as the nominee to be the new FBI director, which was on June 7, 2017. Christie 2/13/19 302, at 7. Telephone records show that the President called Christie twice after that time period, on July 4, 2017, and July 14, 2017. Call Records of Chris Christie.600 Christie 2/13/19 302, at 7.Vol. 2, Page 87investigation and any grand jury proceedings that might flow from the inquiry. Even if the removal of the lead prosecutor would not prevent the investigation from continuing under a new appointee, a factfinder would need to consider whether the act had the potential to delay further action in the investigation, chill the actions of any replacement Special Counsel, or otherwise impede the investigation.A threshold question is whether the President in fact directed McGahn to have the Special Counsel removed. After news organizations reported that in June 2017 the President had ordered McGahn to have the Special Counsel removed, the President publicly disputed these accounts, and privately told McGahn that he had simply wanted McGahn to bring conflicts of interest to the Department of Justice’s attention. See Volume II, Section II.I, infra. Some of the President’s specific language that McGahn recalled from the calls is consistent with that explanation. Substantial evidence, however, supports the conclusion that the President went further and in fact directed McGahn to call Rosenstein to have the Special Counsel removed.First, McGahn’s clear recollection was that the President directed him to tell Rosenstein not only that conflicts existed but also that “Mueller has to go.” McGahn is a credible witness with no motive to lie or exaggerate given the position he held in the White House.601 McGahn spoke with the President twice and understood the directive the same way both times, making it unlikely that he misheard or misinterpreted the President’s request. In response to that request, McGahn decided to quit because he did not want to participate in events that he described as akin to the Saturday Night Massacre. He called his lawyer, drove to the White House, packed up his office, prepared to submit a resignation letter with his chief of staff, told Priebus that the President had asked him to “do crazy shit,” and informed Priebus and Bannon that he was leaving. Those acts would be a highly unusual reaction to a request to convey information to the Department of Justice.Second, in the days before the calls to McGahn, the President, through his counsel, had already brought the asserted conflicts to the attention of the Department of Justice. Accordingly, the President had no reason to have McGahn call Rosenstein that weekend to raise conflicts issues that already had been raised.Third, the President’s sense of urgency and repeated requests to McGahn to take immediate action on a weekend—“You gotta do this. You gotta call Rod.”—support McGahn’s recollection that the President wanted the Department of Justice to take action to remove the Special Counsel. Had the President instead sought only to have the Department of Justice re-examine asserted conflicts to evaluate whether they posed an ethical bar, it would have been unnecessary to set the process in motion on a Saturday and to make repeated calls to McGahn.Finally, the President had discussed “knocking out Mueller” and raised conflicts of interest in a May 23, 2017 call with McGahn, reflecting that the President connected the conflicts to a plan to remove the Special Counsel. And in the days leading up to June 17, 2017, the President made clear to Priebus and Bannon, who then told Ruddy, that the President was considering terminating601 When this Office first interviewed McGahn about this topic, he was reluctant to share detailed information about what had occurred and only did so after continued questioning. See McGahn 12/14/17 302 (agent notes).Vol. 2, Page 88the Special Counsel. Also during this time period, the President reached out to Christie to get his thoughts on firing the Special Counsel. This evidence shows that the President was not just seeking an examination of whether conflicts existed but instead was looking to use asserted conflicts as a way to terminate the Special Counsel.b. Nexus to an official proceeding. To satisfy the proceeding requirement, it would be necessary to establish a nexus between the President’s act of seeking to terminate the Special Counsel and a pending or foreseeable grand jury proceeding.Substantial evidence indicates that by June 17, 2017, the President knew his conduct was under investigation by a federal prosecutor who could present any evidence of federal crimes to a grand jury. On May 23, 2017, McGahn explicitly warned the President that his “biggest exposure” was not his act of firing Comey but his “other contacts” and “calls,” and his “ask re: Flynn.” By early June, it was widely reported in the media that federal prosecutors had issued grand jury subpoenas in the Flynn inquiry and that the Special Counsel had taken over the Flynn investigation.602 On June 9, 2017, the Special Counsel’s Office informed the White House that investigators would be interviewing intelligence agency officials who allegedly had been asked by the President to push back against the Russia investigation. On June 14, 2017, news outlets began reporting that the President was himself being investigated for obstruction of justice. Based on widespread reporting, the President knew that such an investigation could include his request for Comey’s loyalty; his request that Comey “let[] Flynn go"; his outreach to Coats and Rogers; and his termination of Comey and statement to the Russian Foreign Minister that the termination had relieved “great pressure” related to Russia. And on June 16, 2017, the day before he directed McGahn to have the Special Counsel removed, the President publicly acknowledged that his conduct was under investigation by a federal prosecutor, tweeting, “I am being investigated for firing the FBI Director by the man who told me to fire the FBI Director!”c. Intent. Substantial evidence indicates that the President’s attempts to remove the Special Counsel were linked to the Special Counsel’s oversight of investigations that involved the President’s conduct — and, most immediately, to reports that the President was being investigated for potential obstruction of justice.Before the President terminated Comey, the President considered it critically important that he was not under investigation and that the public not erroneously think he was being investigated. As described in Volume II, Section II.D, supra, advisors perceived the President, while he was drafting the Comey termination letter, to be concerned more than anything else about getting out that he was not personally under investigation. When the President learned of the appointment of the Special Counsel on May 17, 2017, he expressed further concern about the investigation, saying “[t]his is the end of my Presidency.” The President also faulted Sessions for recusing, saying “you were supposed to protect me.”On June 14, 2017, when the Washington Post reported that the Special Counsel was investigating the President for obstruction of justice, the President was facing what he had wanted602 See, e.g., Evan Perez et al., CNN exclusive: Grand jury subpoenas issued in FBI’s Russia investigation, CNN (May 9, 2017); Matt Ford, Why Mueller Is Taking Over the Michael Flynn Grand Jury, The Atlantic (June 2, 2017).Vol. 2, Page 89to avoid: a criminal investigation into his own conduct that was the subject of widespread media attention. The evidence indicates that news of the obstruction investigation prompted the President to call McGahn and seek to have the Special Counsel removed. By mid-June, the Department of Justice had already cleared the Special Counsel’s service and the President’s advisors had told him that the claimed conflicts of interest were “silly” and did not provide a basis to remove the Special Counsel. On June 13, 2017, the Acting Attorney General testified before Congress that no good cause for removing the Special Counsel existed, and the President dictated a press statement to Sanders saying he had no intention of firing the Special Counsel. But the next day, the media reported that the President was under investigation for obstruction of justice and the Special Counsel was interviewing witnesses about events related to possible obstruction — spurring the President to write critical tweets about the Special Counsel’s investigation. The President called McGahn at home that night and then called him on Saturday from Camp David. The evidence accordingly indicates that news that an obstruction investigation had been opened is what led the President to call McGahn to have the Special Counsel terminated.There also is evidence that the President knew that he should not have made those calls to McGahn. The President made the calls to McGahn after McGahn had specifically told the President that the White House Counsel’s Office — and McGahn himself — could not be involved in pressing conflicts claims and that the President should consult with his personal counsel if he wished to raise conflicts. Instead of relying on his personal counsel to submit the conflicts claims, the President sought to use his official powers to remove the Special Counsel. And after the media reported on the President’s actions, he denied that he ever ordered McGahn to have the Special Counsel terminated and made repeated efforts to have McGahn deny the story, as discussed in Volume II, Section II.I, infra. Those denials are contrary to the evidence and suggest the President’s awareness that the direction to McGahn could be seen as improper.Two days after the President directed McGahn to have the Special Counsel removed, the President made another attempt to affect the course of the Russia investigation. On June 19, 2017, the President met one-on-one with Corey Lewandowski in the Oval Office and dictated a message to be delivered to Attorney General Sessions that would have had the effect of limiting the Russia investigation to future election interference only. One month later, the President met again with Lewandowski and followed up on the request to have Sessions limit the scope of the Russia investigation. Lewandowski told the President the message would be delivered soon. Hours later, the President publicly criticized Sessions in an unplanned press interview, raising questions about Sessions’s job security.On June 19, 2017, two days after the President directed McGahn to have the Special Counsel removed, the President met one-on-one in the Oval Office with his former campaign 90Vol. 2, Page 90manager Corey Lewandowski.603 Senior White House advisors described Lewandowski as a “devotee” of the President and said the relationship between the President and Lewandowski was “close.”604During the June 19 meeting, Lewandowski recalled that, after some small talk, the President brought up Sessions and criticized his recusal from the Russia investigation.605 The President told Lewandowski that Sessions was weak and that if the President had known about the likelihood of recusal in advance, he would not have appointed Sessions.606 The President then asked Lewandowski to deliver a message to Sessions and said “write this down.”607 This was the first time the President had asked Lewandowski to take dictation, and Lewandowski wrote as fast as possible to make sure he captured the content correctly.608The dictated message went on to state that Sessions would meet with the Special Counsel to limit his jurisdiction to future election interference:603 Lewandowski 4/6/18 302, at 2; SCR026 000201 (President’s Daily Diary, 6/19/17). ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■604 Kelly 8/2/18 302, at 7; Dearborn 6/20/18 302, at 1 (describing Lewandowski as a “comfort to the President” whose loyalty was appreciated). Kelly said that when he was Chief of Staff and the President had meetings with friends like Lewandowski, Kelly tried not to be there and to push the meetings to the residence to create distance from the West Wing. Kelly 8/2/18 302, at 7.605 Lewandowski 4/6/18 302, at 2.606 Lewandowski 4/6/18 302, at 2.607 Lewandowski 4/6/18 302, at 2.608 Lewandowski 4/6/18 302, at 3.609 Lewandowski 4/6/18 302, at 2-3; Lewandowski 6/19/17 Notes, at 1-2.610 Lewandowski 4/6/18 302, at 3; Lewandowski 6/19/17 Notes, at 3.Vol. 2, Page 91The President said that if Sessions delivered that statement he would be the most popular guy in the country.”611 Lewandowski told the President he understood what the President wanted Sessions to do.612Lewandowski wanted to pass the message to Sessions in person rather than over the phone.613 He did not want to meet at the Department of Justice because he did not want a public log of his visit and did not want Sessions to have an advantage over him by meeting on what Lewandowski described as Sessions’s turf.614 Lewandowski called Sessions and arranged a meeting for the following evening at Lewandowski’s office, but Sessions had to cancel due to a last minute conflict.615 Shortly thereafter, Lewandowski left Washington, D.C., without having had an opportunity to meet with Sessions to convey the President’s message.616 Lewandowski stored the notes in a safe at his home, which he stated was his standard procedure with sensitive items.617Following his June meeting with the President, Lewandowski contacted Rick Dearborn, then a senior White House official, and asked if Dearborn could pass a message to Sessions.618 Dearborn agreed without knowing what the message was, and Lewandowski later confirmed that Dearborn would meet with Sessions for dinner in late July and could deliver the message then.619 Lewandowski recalled thinking that the President had asked him to pass the message because the President knew Lewandowski could be trusted, but Lewandowski believed Dearborn would be a better messenger because he had a longstanding relationship with Sessions and because Dearborn was in the government while Lewandowski was not.620On July 19, 2017, the President again met with Lewandowski alone in the Oval Office.621 In the preceding days, as described in Volume II, Section II.G, infra, emails and other information about the June 9, 2016 meeting between several Russians and Donald Trump Jr., Jared Kushner, and Paul Manafort had been publicly disclosed. In the July 19 meeting with Lewandowski, the611 Lewandowski 4/6/18 302, at 3; Lewandowski 6/19/17 Notes, at 4.612 Lewandowski 4/6/18 302, at 3.613 Lewandowski 4/6/18 302, at 3-4.614 Lewandowski 4/6/18 302, at 4.615 Lewandowski 4/6/18 302, at 4.616 Lewandowski 4/6/18 302, at 4.617 Lewandowski 4/6/18 302, at 4.618 Lewandowski 4/6/18 302, at 4; see Dearborn 6/20/18 302, at 3.619 Lewandowski 4/6/18 302, at 4-5.620 Lewandowski 4/6/18 302, at 4, 6.621 Lewandowski 4/6/18 302, at 5; SCR029b_000002-03 (6/5/18 Additional Response to Special Counsel Request for Certain Visitor Log Information).Vol. 2, Page 92President raised his previous request and asked if Lewandowski had talked to Sessions.622 Lewandowski told the President that the message would be delivered soon.623 Lewandowski recalled that the President told him that if Sessions did not meet with him, Lewandowski should tell Sessions he was fired.624Immediately following the meeting with the President, Lewandowski saw Dearborn in the anteroom outside the Oval Office and gave him a typewritten version of the message the President had dictated to be delivered to Sessions.625 Lewandowski told Dearborn that the notes were the message they had discussed, but Dearborn did not recall whether Lewandowski said the message was from the President.626 The message “definitely raised an eyebrow” for Dearborn, and he recalled not wanting to ask where it came from or think further about doing anything with it.627 Dearborn also said that being asked to serve as a messenger to Sessions made him uncomfortable.628 He recalled later telling Lewandowski that he had handled the situation, but he did not actually follow through with delivering the message to Sessions, and he did not keep a copy of the typewritten notes Lewandowski had given him.629Within hours of the President’s meeting with Lewandowski on July 19, 2017, the President gave an unplanned interview to the New York Times in which he criticized Sessions’s decision to recuse from the Russia investigation.630 The President said that “Sessions should have never recused himself, and if he was going to recuse himself, he should have told me before he took the job, and I would have picked somebody else.”631 Sessions’s recusal, the President said, was very unfair to the president. How do you take a job and then recuse yourself? If he would have recused himself before the job, I would have said, “Thanks, Jeff, but I can’t, you know, I’m not going to622 Lewandowski 4/6/18 302, at 5.623 Lewandowski 4/6/18 302, at 5.624 Lewandowski 4/6/18 302, at 6. Priebus vaguely recalled Lewandowski telling him that in approximately May or June 2017 the President had asked Lewandowski to get Sessions’s resignation. Priebus recalled that Lewandowski described his reaction as something like, “What can I do? I’m not an employee of the administration. I’m a nobody.” Priebus 4/3/18 302, at 6.625 Lewandowski 4/6/18 302, at 5. Lewandowski said he asked Hope Hicks to type the notes when he went in to the Oval Office, and he then retrieved the notes from her partway through his meeting with the President. Lewandowski 4/6/18 302, at 5.626 Lewandowski 4/6/18 302, at 5; Dearborn 6/20/18 302, at 3.627 Dearborn 6/20/18 302, at 3.628 Dearborn 6/20/18 302, at 3.629 Dearborn 6/20/18 302, at 3-4.630 Peter Baker et al., Excerpts From The Times’s Interview With Trump, New York Times (July 19, 2017).631 Peter Baker et al., Excerpts From The Times ’s Interview With Trump, New York Times (July 19, 2017).Vol. 2, Page 93take you.” It’s extremely unfair, and that’s a mild word, to the president.”632 Hicks, who was present for the interview, recalled trying to “throw [herself) between the reporters and [the President]” to stop parts of the interview, but the President “loved the interview.”633Later that day, Lewandowski met with Hicks and they discussed the President’s New York Times interview.634 Lewandowski recalled telling Hicks about the President’s request that he meet with Sessions and joking with her about the idea of firing Sessions as a private citizen if Sessions would not meet with him.635 As Hicks remembered the conversation, Lewandowski told her the President had recently asked him to meet with Sessions and deliver a message that he needed to do the “right thing” and resign.636 While Hicks and Lewandowski were together, the President called Hicks and told her he was happy with how coverage of his New York Times interview criticizing Sessions was playing out.637Three days later, on July 21, 2017, the Washington Post reported that U.S. intelligence intercepts showed that Sessions had discussed campaign-related matters with the Russian ambassador, contrary to what Sessions had said publicly.638 That evening, Priebus called Hunt to talk about whether Sessions might be fired or might resign.639 Priebus had previously talked to Hunt when the media had reported on tensions between Sessions and the President, and, after speaking to Sessions, Hunt had told Priebus that the President would have to fire Sessions if he wanted to remove Sessions because Sessions was not going to quit.640 According to Hunt, who took contemporaneous notes of the July 21 call, Hunt told Priebus that, as they had previously discussed, Sessions had no intention of resigning.641 Hunt asked Priebus what the President would632 Peter Baker et al., Excerpts From The Times’s Interview With Trump, New York Times (July 19, 2017).633 Hicks 12/8/17 302, at 23.634 Hicks 3/13/18 302, at 10; Lewandowski 4/6/18 302, at 6.635 Lewandowski 4/6/18 302, at 6.636 Hicks 3/13/18 302, at 10. Hicks thought that the President might be able to make a recess appointment of a new Attorney General because the Senate was about to go on recess. Hicks 3/13/18 302, at 10. Lewandowski recalled that in the afternoon of July 19, 2017, following his meeting with the President, he conducted research on recess appointments but did not share his research with the President. Lewandowski 4/6/18 302, at 7.637 Lewandowski 4/6/18 302, at 6.638 Adam Entous et al., Sessions discussed Trump campaign-related matters with Russian ambassador, U.S. intelligence intercepts show, Washington Post (July 21, 2017). The underlying events concerning the Sessions-Kislyak contacts are discussed in Volume I, Section IV.A.4.c, supra.639 Hunt 2/1/18 302, at 23.640 Hunt 2/1/18 302, at 23.641 Hunt 2/1/18 302, at 23-24; Hunt 7/21/17 Notes, at 1.Vol. 2, Page 94accomplish by firing Sessions, pointing out there was an investigation before and there would be an investigation after.642Early the following morning, July 22, 2017, the President tweeted, “A new INTELLIGENCE LEAK from the Amazon Washington Post, this time against A.G. Jeff Sessions. These illegal leaks, like Comey’s, must stop!"643 Approximately one hour later, the President tweeted, “So many people are asking why isn’t the A.G. or Special Council looking at the many Hillary Clinton or Comey crimes. 33,000 e-mails deleted?”644 Later that morning, while aboard Marine One on the way to Norfolk, Virginia, the President told Priebus that he had to get Sessions to resign immediately.645 The President said that the country had lost confidence in Sessions and the negative publicity was not tolerable.646 According to contemporaneous notes taken by Priebus, the President told Priebus to say that he “need[ed] a letter of resignation on [his] desk immediately” and that Sessions had no choice” but “must immediately resign.647 Priebus replied that if they fired Sessions, they would never get a new Attorney General confirmed and that the Department of Justice and Congress would turn their backs on the President, but the President suggested he could make a recess appointment to replace Sessions.648Priebus believed that the President’s request was a problem, so he called McGahn and asked for advice, explaining that he did not want to pull the trigger on something that was all wrong.”649 Although the President tied his desire for Sessions to resign to Sessions’s negative press and poor performance in congressional testimony, Priebus believed that the President’s desire to replace Sessions was driven by the President’s hatred of Sessions’s recusal from the Russia investigation.650 McGahn told Priebus not to follow the President’s order and said they should consult their personal counsel, with whom they had attorney-client privilege.651 McGahn642 Hunt 2/1/18 302, at 23-24; Hunt 7/21/17 Notes, at 1-2.643 @realDonaldTrump 7/22/17 (6:33 a.m. ET) Tweet.644 @realDonaldTrump 7/22/17 (7:44 a.m. ET) Tweet. Three minutes later, the President tweeted, “What about all of the Clinton ties to Russia, including Podesta Company, Uranium deal, Russian Reset, big dollar speeches etc.” @realDonaldTrump 7/22/17 (7:47 a.m. ET) Tweet.645 Priebus 1/18/18 302, at 13-14.646 Priebus 1/18/18 302, at 14; Priebus 4/3/18 302, at 4-5; see RP_000073 (Priebus 7/22/17 Notes).647 RP_000073 (Priebus 7/22/17 Notes).648 Priebus 4/3/18 302, at 5.649 Priebus 1/18/18 302, at 14; Priebus 4/3/18 302, at 4-5.650 Priebus 4/3/18 302, at 5.651 RP 000074 (Priebus 7/22/17 Notes); McGahn 12/14/17 302, at 11; Priebus 1/18/18 302, at 14. Priebus followed McGahn’s advice and called his personal attorney to discuss the President’s request because he thought it was the type of thing about which one would need to consult an attorney. Priebus 1/18/18 302, at 14.Vol. 2, Page 95and Priebus discussed the possibility that they would both have to resign rather than carry out the President’s order to fire Sessions.652That afternoon, the President followed up with Priebus about demanding Sessions’s resignation, using words to the effect of, “Did you get it? Are you working on it?”653 Priebus said that he believed that his job depended on whether he followed the order to remove Sessions, although the President did not directly say so.654 Even though Priebus did not intend to carry out the President’s directive, he told the President he would get Sessions to resign.655 Later in the day, Priebus called the President and explained that it would be a calamity if Sessions resigned because Priebus expected that Rosenstein and Associate Attorney General Rachel Brand would also resign and the President would be unable to get anyone else confirmed.656 The President agreed to hold off on demanding Sessions’s resignation until after the Sunday shows the next day, to prevent the shows from focusing on the firing.657By the end of that weekend, Priebus recalled that the President relented and agreed not to ask Sessions to resign.658 Over the next several days, the President tweeted about Sessions. On the morning of Monday, July 24, 2017, the President criticized Sessions for neglecting to investigate Clinton and called him “beleaguered.”659 On July 25, the President tweeted, “Attorney General Jeff Sessions has taken a VERY weak position on Hillary Clinton crimes (where are E-mails &amp; DNC server) &amp; Intel leakers!"660 The following day, July 26, the President tweeted, “Why didn’t A.G. Sessions replace Acting FBI Director Andrew McCabe, a Comey friend who was in charge of Clinton investigation."661 According to Hunt, in light of the President’s frequent public attacks, Sessions prepared another resignation letter and for the rest of the year carried it with him in his pocket every time he went to the White House.662652 McGahn 12/14/17 302, at 11; RP_000074 (Priebus 7/22/17 Notes) ("discuss resigning together”).653 Priebus 1/18/18 302, at 14; Priebus 4/3/18 302, at 4.654 Priebus 4/3/18 302, at 4.655 Priebus 1/18/18 302, at 15.656 Priebus 1/18/18 302, at 15.657 Priebus 1/18/18 302, at 15.658 Priebus 1/18/18 302, at 15.659 @realDonaldTrump 7/24/17 (8:49 a.m. ET) Tweet ("So why aren’t the Committees and investigators, and of course our beleaguered A.G., looking into Crooked Hillarys crimes &amp; Russia relations?”).660 @realDonaldTrump 7/25/17 (6:12 a.m. ET) Tweet. The President sent another tweet shortly before this one asking “where is the investigation A.G.” @realDonald Trump 7/25/17 (6:03 a.m. ET) Tweet.661 @realDonaldTrump 7/26/17 (9:48 a.m. ET) Tweet.662 Hunt 2/1/18 302, at 24-25.Vol. 2, Page 96In analyzing the President’s efforts to have Lewandowski deliver a message directing Sessions to publicly announce that the Special Counsel investigation would be confined to future election interference, the following evidence is relevant to the elements of obstruction of justice:a. Obstructive act. The President’s effort to send Sessions a message through Lewandowski would qualify as an obstructive act if it would naturally obstruct the investigation and any grand jury proceedings that might flow from the inquiry.The President sought to have Sessions announce that the President “shouldn’t have a Special Prosecutor/Counsel” and that Sessions was going to meet with the Special Prosecutor to explain this is very unfair and let the Special Prosecutor move forward with investigating election meddling for future elections so that nothing can happen in future elections.” The President wanted Sessions to disregard his recusal from the investigation, which had followed from a formal DOJ ethics review, and have Sessions declare that he knew “for a fact” that “there were no Russians involved with the campaign” because he “was there.” The President further directed that Sessions should explain that the President should not be subject to an investigation “because he hasn’t done anything wrong.” Taken together, the President’s directives indicate that Sessions was being instructed to tell the Special Counsel to end the existing investigation into the President and his campaign, with the Special Counsel being permitted to move forward with investigating election meddling for future elections.”b. Nexus to an official proceeding. As described above, by the time of the President’s initial one-on-one meeting with Lewandowski on June 19, 2017, the existence of a grand jury investigation supervised by the Special Counsel was public knowledge. By the time of the President’s follow-up meeting with Lewandowski, ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ See Volume II, Section II.G, infra. To satisfy the nexus requirement, it would be necessary to show that limiting the Special Counsel’s investigation would have the natural and probable effect of impeding that grand jury proceeding.c. Intent. Substantial evidence indicates that the President’s effort to have Sessions limit the scope of the Special Counsel’s investigation to future election interference was intended to prevent further investigative scrutiny of the President’s and his campaign’s conduct.As previously described, see Volume II, Section II.B, supra, the President knew that the Russia investigation was focused in part on his campaign, and he perceived allegations of Russian interference to cast doubt on the legitimacy of his election. The President further knew that the investigation had broadened to include his own conduct and whether he had obstructed justice. Those investigations would not proceed if the Special Counsel’s jurisdiction were limited to future election interference only.The timing and circumstances of the President’s actions support the conclusion that he sought that result. The President’s initial direction that Sessions should limit the Special Counsel’s investigation came just two days after the President had ordered McGahn to have the Special Counsel removed, which itself followed public reports that the President was personally underVol. 2, Page 97investigation for obstruction of justice. The sequence of those events raises an inference that after seeking to terminate the Special Counsel, the President sought to exclude his and his campaign’s conduct from the investigation’s scope. The President raised the matter with Lewandowski again on July 19, 2017, just days after emails and information about the June 9, 2016 meeting between Russians and senior campaign officials had been publicly disclosed, generating substantial media coverage and investigative interest.The manner in which the President acted provides additional evidence of his intent. Rather than rely on official channels, the President met with Lewandowski alone in the Oval Office. The President selected a loyal “devotee” outside the White House to deliver the message, supporting an inference that he was working outside White House channels, including McGahn, who had previously resisted contacting the Department of Justice about the Special Counsel. The President also did not contact the Acting Attorney General, who had just testified publicly that there was no cause to remove the Special Counsel. Instead, the President tried to use Sessions to restrict and redirect the Special Counsel’s investigation when Sessions was recused and could not properly take any action on it.The July 19, 2017 events provide further evidence of the President’s intent. The President followed up with Lewandowski in a separate one-on-one meeting one month after he first dictated the message for Sessions, demonstrating he still sought to pursue the request. And just hours after Lewandowski assured the President that the message would soon be delivered to Sessions, the President gave an unplanned interview to the New York Times in which he publicly attacked Sessions and raised questions about his job security. Four days later, on July 22, 2017, the President directed Priebus to obtain Sessions’s resignation. That evidence could raise an inference that the President wanted Sessions to realize that his job might be on the line as he evaluated whether to comply with the President’s direction that Sessions publicly announce that, notwithstanding his recusal, he was going to confine the Special Counsel’s investigation to future election interference.By June 2017, the President became aware of emails setting up the June 9, 2016 meeting between senior campaign officials and Russians who offered derogatory information on Hillary Clinton as part of Russia and its government’s support for Mr. Trump.” On multiple occasions in late June and early July 2017, the President directed aides not to publicly disclose the emails, and he then dictated a statement about the meeting to be issued by Donald Trump Jr. describing the meeting as about adoption.In mid-June 2017 — the same week that the President first asked Lewandowski to pass a message to Sessions — senior Administration officials became aware of emails exchanged duringVol. 2, Page 98the campaign arranging a meeting between Donald Trump Jr., Paul Manafort, Jared Kushner, and a Russian attorney.663 As described in Volume I, Section IV.A.5, supra, the emails stated that the “Crown [P]rosecutor of Russia” had offered to provide the Trump campaign with some official documents and information that would incriminate Hillary and her dealings with Russia” as part of “Russia and its government’s support for Mr. Trump.664 Trump Jr. responded, “[1]f it’s what you say I love it,"665 and he, Kushner, and Manafort met with the Russian attorney and several other Russian individuals at Trump Tower on June 9, 2016.666 At the meeting, the Russian attorney claimed that funds derived from illegal activities in Russia were provided to Hillary Clinton and other Democrats, and the Russian attorney then spoke about the Magnitsky Act, a 2012 U.S. statute that imposed financial and travel sanctions on Russian officials and that had resulted in a retaliatory ban in Russia on U.S. adoptions of Russian children.667According to written answers submitted by the President in response to questions from this Office, the President had no recollection of learning of the meeting or the emails setting it up at the time the meeting occurred or at any other time before the election.668The Trump Campaign had previously received a document request from SSCI that called for the production of various information, including, “[a] list and a description of all meetings” between any “individual affiliated with the Trump campaign” and “any individual formally or informally affiliated with the Russian government or Russian business interests which took place between June 16, 2015, and 12 pm on January 20, 2017,” and associated records.669 Trump Organization attorneys became aware of the June 9 meeting no later than the first week of June 2017, when they began interviewing the meeting participants, and the Trump Organization attorneys provided the emails setting up the meeting to the President’s personal counsel.670 Mark Corallo, who had been hired as a spokesman for the President’s personal legal team, recalled that he learned about the June 9 meeting around June 21 or 22, 2017.671 Priebus recalled learning about the June 9 meeting from Fox News host Sean Hannity in late June 2017.672 Priebus notified one663 Hicks 3/13/18 302, at 1; Raffel 2/8/18 302, at 2.664 RG000061 (6/3/16 Email, Goldstone to Trump Jr.); @DonaldJTrumpJR 7/11/17 (11:01 a.m. ET) Tweet.665 RG000061 (6/3/16 Email, Trump Jr. to Goldstone); @DonaldJTrumpJR 7/11/17 (11:01 a.m. ET) Tweet.666 Samochornov 7/12/17 302, at 4.667 See Volume I, Section IV.A.5, supra (describing meeting in detail).668 Written Responses of Donald J. Trump (Nov. 20, 2018), at 8 (Response to Question I, Parts (a) through (c)). The President declined to answer questions about his knowledge of the June 9 meeting or other events after the election.669 DJTFP SCO PDF 00000001-02 (5/17/17 Letter, SSCI to Donald J. Trump for President, Inc.).670 Goldstone 2/8/18 302, at 12; 6/2/17 and 6/5/17 Emails, Goldstone &amp; Garten; Raffel 2/8/18 302, at 3; Hicks 3/13/18 302, at 2.671 Corallo 2/15/18 302, at 3.672 Priebus 4/3/18 302, at 7.Vol. 2, Page 99of the President’s personal attorneys, who told Priebus he was already working on it.673 By late June, several advisors recalled receiving media inquiries that could relate to the June 9 meeting.674Communications advisors Hope Hicks and Josh Raffel recalled discussing with Jared Kushner and Ivanka Trump that the emails were damaging and would inevitably be leaked. 675 Hicks and Raffel advised that the best strategy was to proactively release the emails to the press.676 On or about June 22, 2017, Hicks attended a meeting in the White House residence with the President, Kushner, and Ivanka Trump.677 According to Hicks, Kushner said that he wanted to fill the President in on something that had been discovered in the documents he was to provide to the congressional committees involving a meeting with him, Manafort, and Trump Jr.678 Kushner brought a folder of documents to the meeting and tried to show them to the President, but the President stopped Kushner and said he did not want to know about it, shutting the conversation down.679On June 28, 2017, Hicks viewed the emails at Kushner’s attorney’s office.680 She recalled being shocked by the emails because they looked “really bad.”681 The next day, Hicks spoke privately with the President to mention her concern about the emails, which she understood were soon going to be shared with Congress.682 The President seemed upset because too many people knew about the emails and he told Hicks that just one lawyer should deal with the matter.683 The President indicated that he did not think the emails would leak, but said they would leak if everyone had access to them.684673 Priebus 4/3/18 302, at 7.674 Corallo 2/15/18 302, at 3; Hicks 12/7/17 302, at 8; Raffel 2/8/18 302, at 3.675 Raffel 2/8/18 302, at 2-3; Hicks 3/13/18 302, at 2.676 Raffel 2/8/18 302, at 2-3, 5; Hicks 3/13/18 302, at 2; Hicks 12/7/17 302, at 8.677 Hicks 12/7/17 302, at 6-7; Hicks 3/13/18 302, at 1.678 Hicks 12/7/17 302, at 7; Hicks 3/13/18 302, at 1.679 Hicks 12/7/17 302, at 7; Hicks 3/13/18 302, at 1. Counsel for Ivanka Trump provided an attorney proffer that is consistent with Hicks’s account and with the other events involving Ivanka Trump set forth in this section of the report. Kushner said that he did not recall talking to the President at this time about the June 9 meeting or the underlying emails. Kushner 4/11/18 302, at 30.680 Hicks 3/13/18 302, at 1-2.681 Hicks 3/13/18 302, at 2.682 Hicks 12/7/17 302, at 8.683 Hicks 3/13/18 302, at 2-3; Hicks 12/7/17 302, at 8.684 Hicks 12/7/17 302, at 8.Vol. 2, Page 100Later that day, Hicks, Kushner, and Ivanka Trump went together to talk to the President.685 Hicks recalled that Kushner told the President the June 9 meeting was not a big deal and was about Russian adoption, but that emails existed setting up the meeting.686 Hicks said she wanted to get in front of the story and have Trump Jr. release the emails as part of an interview with “softball questions.”687 The President said he did not want to know about it and they should not go to the press.688 Hicks warned the President that the emails were “really bad” and the story would be “massive” when it broke, but the President was insistent that he did not want to talk about it and said he did not want details.689 Hicks recalled that the President asked Kushner when his document production was due.690 Kushner responded that it would be a couple of weeks and the President said, “then leave it alone.691 Hicks also recalled that the President said Kushner’s attorney should give the emails to whomever he needed to give them to, but the President did not think they would be leaked to the press.692 Raffel later heard from Hicks that the President had directed the group not to be proactive in disclosing the emails because the President believed they would not leak.693The following week, the President departed on an overseas trip for the G20 summit in Hamburg, Germany, accompanied by Hicks, Raffel, Kushner, and Ivanka Trump, among others.694 On July 7, 2017, while the President was overseas, Hicks and Raffel learned that the New York Times was working on a story about the June 9 meeting.695 The next day, Hicks told the President about the story and he directed her not to comment.696 Hicks thought the President’s reaction was odd because he usually considered not responding to the press to be the ultimate sin.697 Later that day, Hicks and the President again spoke about the story.698 Hicks recalled that the President asked685 Hicks 12/7/17 302, at 8; Hicks 3/13/18 302, at 2.686 Hicks 3/13/18 302, at 2; Hicks 12/7/17 302, at 9.687 Hicks 3/13/18 302, at 2-3.688 Hicks 3/13/18 302, at 2-3; Hicks 12/7/17 302, at 9.689 Hicks 3/13/18 302, at 3; Hicks 12/7/17 302, at 9.690 Hicks 3/13/18 302, at 3.691 Hicks 3/13/18 302, at 3.692 Hicks 12/7/17 302, at 9.693 Raffel 2/8/18 302, at 5.694 Raffel 2/8/18 302, at 6.695 Raffel 2/8/18 302, at 6-7; Hicks 3/13/18 302, at 3.696 Hicks 12/7/17 302, at 10; Hicks 3/13/18 302, at 3.697 Hicks 12/7/17 302, at 10.698 Hicks 3/13/18 302, at 3.Vol. 2, Page 101her what the meeting had been about, and she said that she had been told the meeting was about Russian adoption.699 The President responded, “then just say that.”700On the flight home from the G20 on July 8, 2017, Hicks obtained a draft statement about the meeting to be released by Trump Jr. and brought it to the President.701 The draft statement began with a reference to the information that was offered by the Russians in setting up the meeting: “I was asked to have a meeting by an acquaintance I knew from the 2013 Miss Universe pageant with an individual who I was told might have information helpful to the campaign.”702 Hicks again wanted to disclose the entire story, but the President directed that the statement not be issued because it said too much.703 The President told Hicks to say only that Trump Jr. took a brief meeting and it was about Russian adoption.704 After speaking with the President, Hicks texted Trump Jr. a revised statement on the June 9 meeting that read:It was a short meeting. I asked Jared and Paul to stop by. We discussed a program about the adoption of Russian children that was active and popular with American families years ago and was since ended by the Russian government, but it was not a campaign issue at that time and there was no follow up.705Hicks’s text concluded, “Are you ok with this? Attributed to you.”706 Trump Jr. responded by text message that he wanted to add the word “primarily” before “discussed” so that the statement would read, “We primarily discussed a program about the adoption of Russian children."707 Trump Jr. texted that he wanted the change because “[t]hey started with some Hillary thing which was bs and some other nonsense which we shot down fast.”708 Hicks texted back, “I think that’s right too but boss man worried it invites a lot of questions[.] [U]ltimately [d]efer to you and [your attorney] on that word Bc I know it’s important and I think the mention of a campaign issue adds something to it in case we have to go further.”709 Trump Jr. responded, “If I don’t have it in there it appears as though I’m lying later when they inevitably leak something.”710 Trump Jr.’s statement — adding699 Hicks 3/13/18 302, at 3; Hicks 12/7/17 302, at 10.700 Hicks 3/13/18 302, at 3; see Hicks 12/7/17 302, at 10.701 Hicks 3/13/18 302, at 4.702 Hicks 7/8/17 Notes.703 Hicks 3/13/18 302, at 4-5; Hicks 12/7/17 302, at 11.704 Hicks 12/7/17 302, at 11.705 SCRO1la 000004 (7/8/17 Text Message, Hicks to Trump Jr.).706 SCR011a 000004 (7/8/17 Text Message, Hicks to Trump Jr.).707 SCR011a_000005 (7/8/17 Text Message, Trump Jr. to Hicks).708 SCRO11a 000005 (7/8/17 Text Message, Trump Jr. to Hicks).709 SCROlla 000005 (7/8/17 Text Message, Hicks to Trump Jr.).710 SCRO11a_000006 (7/8/17 Text Message, Trump Jr. to Hicks).Vol. 2, Page 102the word “primarily” and making other minor additions — was then provided to the New York Times.711 The full statement provided to the Times stated:It was a short introductory meeting. I asked Jared and Paul to stop by. We primarily discussed a program about the adoption of Russian children that was active and popular with American families years ago and was since ended by the Russian government, but it was not a campaign issue at the time and there was no follow up. I was asked to attend the meeting by an acquaintance, but was not told the name of the person I would be meeting with beforehand.712The statement did not mention the offer of derogatory information about Clinton or any discussion of the Magnitsky Act or U.S. sanctions, which were the principal subjects of the meeting, as described in Volume I, Section IV.A.5, supra.A short while later, while still on Air Force One, Hicks learned that Priebus knew about the emails, which further convinced her that additional information about the June 9 meeting would leak and the White House should be proactive and get in front of the story.713 Hicks recalled again going to the President to urge him that they should be fully transparent about the June 9 meeting, but he again said no, telling Hicks, “You’ve given a statement. We’re done.”714Later on the flight home, Hicks went to the President’s cabin, where the President was on the phone with one of his personal attorneys.715 At one point the President handed the phone to Hicks, and the attorney told Hicks that he had been working with Circa News on a separate story, and that she should not talk to the New York Times.716Before the President’s flight home from the G20 landed, the New York Times published its story about the June 9, 2016 meeting.717 In addition to the statement from Trump Jr., the Times story also quoted a statement from Corallo on behalf of the President’s legal team suggesting that the meeting might have been a setup by individuals working with the firm that produced the Steele reporting.718 Corallo also worked with Circa News on a story published an hour later that711 Hicks 3/13/18 302, at 6; see Jo Becker et al., Trump Team Met With Lawyer Linked to Kremlin During Campaign, New York Times (July 8, 2017).712 See Jo Becker et al., Trump Team Met With Lawyer Linked to Kremlin During Campaign, New York Times (July 8, 2017).713 Hicks 3/13/18 302, at 6; Raffel 2/8/18 302, at 9-10.714 Hicks 12/7/17 302, at 12; Raffel 2/8/18 302, at 10.715 Hicks 3/13/18 302, at 7.716 Hicks 3/13/18 302, at 7.717 See Jo Becker et al., Trump Team Met With Lawyer Linked to Kremlin During Campaign, New York Times (July 8, 2017); Raffel 2/8/18 302, at 10.718 See Jo Becker et al., Trump Team Met With Lawyer Linked to Kremlin During Campaign, New York Times (July 8, 2017).Vol. 2, Page 103questioned whether Democratic operatives had arranged the June 9 meeting to create the appearance of improper connections between Russia and Trump family members.719 Hicks was upset about Corallo’s public statement and called him that evening to say the President had not approved the statement.720The next day, July 9, 2017, Hicks and the President called Corallo together and the President criticized Corallo for the statement he had released.721 Corallo told the President the statement had been authorized and further observed that Trump Jr.’s statement was inaccurate and that a document existed that would contradict it.722 Corallo said that he purposely used the term “document to refer to the emails setting up the June 9 meeting because he did not know what the President knew about the emails.723 Corallo recalled that when he referred to the “document” on the call with the President, Hicks responded that only a few people had access to it and said “it will never get out.”724 Corallo took contemporaneous notes of the call that say: “Also mention existence of doc. Hope says ’only a few people have it. It will never get out.’”725 Hicks later told investigators that she had no memory of making that comment and had always believed the emails would eventually be leaked, but she might have been channeling the President on the phone call because it was clear to her throughout her conversations with the President that he did not think the emails would leak.726On July 11, 2017, Trump Jr. posted redacted images of the emails setting up the June 9 meeting on Twitter; the New York Times reported that he did so “[a]fter being told that The Times was about to publish the content of the emails.”727 Later that day, the media reported that the President had been personally involved in preparing Trump Jr.’s initial statement to the New York Times that had claimed the meeting “primarily” concerned “a program about the adoption of Russian children.”728 Over the next several days, the President’s personal counsel repeatedly and719 See Donald Trump Jr. gathered members of campaign for meeting with Russian lawyer before election, Circa News (July 8, 2017).720 Hicks 3/13/18 302, at 8; Corallo 2/15/18 302, at 6-7.721 Corallo 2/15/18 302, at 7.722 Corallo 2/15/18 302, at 7.723 Corallo 2/15/18 302, at 7-9.724 Corallo 2/15/18 302, at 8.725 Corallo 2/15/18 302, at 8; Corallo 7/9/17 Notes ("Sunday 9th - Hope calls w/ POTUS on line”). Corallo said he is “100% confident” that Hicks said “It will never get out” on the call. Corallo 2/15/18 302, at 9.726 Hicks 3/13/18 302, at 9.727 @DonaldJTrumpJR 7/11/17 (11:01 a.m. ET) Tweet; Jo Becker et al., Russian Dirt on Clinton? ‘I Love It, ’ Donald Trump Jr. Said, New York Times (July 11, 2017).728 See, e.g., Peter Baker &amp; Maggie Haberman, Rancor at White House as Russia Story Refuses to Let the Page Turn, New York Times (July 11, 2017) (reporting that the President “signed off” on Trump Jr.’s statement).Vol. 2, Page 104inaccurately denied that the President played any role in drafting Trump Jr.’s statement.729 After consulting with the President on the issue, White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders told the media that the President “certainly didn’t dictate” the statement, but that “he weighed in, offered suggestions like any father would do.”730 Several months later, the President’s personal counsel stated in a private communication to the Special Counsel’s Office that “the President dictated a short but accurate response to the New York Times article on behalf of his son, Donald Trump, Jr.”731 The President later told the press that it was “irrelevant” whether he dictated the statement and said, “It’s a statement to the New York Times. ... That’s not a statement to a high tribunal of judges.”732On July 12, 2017, the Special Counsel’s Office ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ Trump Jr. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ related to the June 9 meeting and those who attended the June 9 meeting."733On July 19, 2017, the President had his follow-up meeting with Lewandowski and then met with reporters for the New York Times. In addition to criticizing Sessions in his Times interview, the President addressed the June 9, 2016 meeting and said he didn’t know anything about the meeting” at the time.734 The President added, “As I’ve said — most other people, you know, when they call up and say, “By the way, we have information on your opponent,’ I think most politicians — I was just with a lot of people, they said ..., ‘Who wouldn’t have taken a meeting like that?’”735In analyzing the President’s actions regarding the disclosure of information about the June 9 meeting, the following evidence is relevant to the elements of obstruction of justice:a. Obstructive act. On at least three occasions between June 29, 2017, and July 9, 2017, the President directed Hicks and others not to publicly disclose information about the June729 See, e.g., David Wright, Trump lawyer: President was aware of “nothing", CNN (July 12, 2017) (quoting the President’s personal attorney as saying, “I wasn’t involved in the statement drafting at all nor was the President.”); see also Good Morning America, ABC (July 12, 2017) (“The President didn’t sign off on anything. ... The President wasn’t involved in that.”); Meet the Press, NBC (July 16, 2017) (“I do want to be clear — the President was not involved in the drafting of the statement.”).730 Sarah Sanders, White House Daily Briefing, C-SPAN (Aug. 1, 2017); Sanders 7/3/18 302, at 9 (the President told Sanders he “weighed in, as any father would” and knew she intended to tell the press what he said).731 1/29/18 Letter, President’s Personal Counsel to Special Counsel’s Office, at 18.732 Remarks by President Trump in Press Gaggle (June 15, 2018).733 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■734 Peter Baker et al., Excerpts From The Times’s Interview With Trump, New York Times (July 19, 2017)735 Peter Baker et al., Excerpts From The Times’s Interview With Trump, New York Times (July 19, 2017).Vol. 2, Page 1059, 2016 meeting between senior campaign officials and a Russian attorney. On June 29, Hicks warned the President that the emails setting up the June 9 meeting were “really bad” and the story would be “massive” when it broke, but the President told her and Kushner to “leave it alone.” Early on July 8, after Hicks told the President the New York Times was working on a story about the June 9 meeting, the President directed her not to comment, even though Hicks said that the President usually considered not responding to the press to be the ultimate sin. Later that day, the President rejected Trump Jr.’s draft statement that would have acknowledged that the meeting was with “an individual who I was told might have information helpful to the campaign.” The President then dictated a statement to Hicks that said the meeting was about Russian adoption (which the President had twice been told was discussed at the meeting). The statement dictated by the President did not mention the offer of derogatory information about Clinton.Each of these efforts by the President involved his communications team and was directed at the press. They would amount to obstructive acts only if the President, by taking these actions, sought to withhold information from or mislead congressional investigators or the Special Counsel. On May 17, 2017, the President’s campaign received a document request from SSCI that clearly covered the June 9 meeting and underlying emails, and those documents also plainly would have been relevant to the Special Counsel’s investigation.But the evidence does not establish that the President took steps to prevent the emails or other information about the June 9 meeting from being provided to Congress or the Special Counsel. The series of discussions in which the President sought to limit access to the emails and prevent their public release occurred in the context of developing a press strategy. The only evidence we have of the President discussing the production of documents to Congress or the Special Counsel is the conversation on June 29, 2017, when Hicks recalled the President acknowledging that Kushner’s attorney should provide emails related to the June 9 meeting to whomever he needed to give them to. We do not have evidence of what the President discussed with his own lawyers at that time.b. Nexus to an official proceeding. As described above, by the time of the President’s attempts to prevent the public release of the emails regarding the June 9 meeting, the existence of a grand jury investigation supervised by the Special Counsel was public knowledge, and the President had been told that the emails were responsive to congressional inquiries. To satisfy the nexus requirement, however, it would be necessary to show that preventing the release of the emails to the public would have the natural and probable effect of impeding the grand jury proceeding or congressional inquiries. As noted above, the evidence does not establish that the President sought to prevent disclosure of the emails in those official proceedings.c. Intent. The evidence establishes the President’s substantial involvement in the communications strategy related to information about his campaign’s connections to Russia and his desire to minimize public disclosures about those connections. The President became aware of the emails no later than June 29, 2017, when he discussed them with Hicks and Kushner, and he could have been aware of them as early as June 2, 2017, when lawyers for the Trump Organization began interviewing witnesses who participated in the June 9 meeting. The President thereafter repeatedly rejected the advice of Hicks and other staffers to publicly release information about the June 9 meeting. The President expressed concern that multiple people had access to the emails and instructed Hicks that only one lawyer should deal with the matter. And the PresidentVol. 2, Page 106dictated a statement to be released by Trump Jr. in response to the first press accounts of the June 9 meeting that said the meeting was about adoption.But as described above, the evidence does not establish that the President intended to prevent the Special Counsel’s Office or Congress from obtaining the emails setting up the June 9 meeting or other information about that meeting. The statement recorded by Corallo — that the emails “will never get out” — can be explained as reflecting a belief that the emails would not be made public if the President’s press strategy were followed, even if the emails were provided to Congress and the Special Counsel.From summer 2017 through 2018, the President attempted to have Attorney General Sessions reverse his recusal, take control of the Special Counsel’s investigation, and order an investigation of Hillary Clinton.After returning Sessions’s resignation letter at the end of May 2017, but before the President’s July 19, 2017 New York Times interview in which he publicly criticized Sessions for recusing from the Russia investigation, the President took additional steps to have Sessions reverse his recusal. In particular, at some point after the May 17, 2017 appointment of the Special Counsel, Sessions recalled, the President called him at home and asked if Sessions would “unrecuse” himself.736 According to Sessions, the President asked him to reverse his recusal so that Sessions could direct the Department of Justice to investigate and prosecute Hillary Clinton, and the “gist” of the conversation was that the President wanted Sessions to unrecuse from “all of it,” including the Special Counsel’s Russia investigation."737 Sessions listened but did not respond, and he did not reverse his recusal or order an investigation of Clinton.738In early July 2017, the President asked Staff Secretary Rob Porter what he thought of Associate Attorney General Rachel Brand.739 Porter recalled that the President asked him if Brand was good, tough, and “on the team."740 The President also asked if Porter thought Brand was interested in being responsible for the Special Counsel’s investigation and whether she would want736 Sessions 1/17/18 302, at 15. That was the second time that the President asked Sessions to reverse his recusal from campaign-related investigations. See Volume II, Section II.C.1, supra (describing President’s March 2017 request at Mar-a-Lago for Sessions to unrecuse).737 Sessions 1/17/18 302, at 15.738 Sessions 1/17/18 302, at 15.739 Porter 4/13/18 302, at 11; Porter 5/8/18 302, at 6.740 Porter 4/13/18 302, at 11; Porter 5/8/18 302, at 6.Vol. 2, Page 107to be Attorney General one day.741 Because Porter knew Brand, the President asked him to sound her out about taking responsibility for the investigation and being Attorney General.742 Contemporaneous notes taken by Porter show that the President told Porter to “Keep in touch with your friend,” in reference to Brand.743 Later, the President asked Porter a few times in passing whether he had spoken to Brand, but Porter did not reach out to her because he was uncomfortable with the task.744 In asking him to reach out to Brand, Porter understood the President to want to find someone to end the Russia investigation or fire the Special Counsel, although the President never said so explicitly.745 Porter did not contact Brand because he was sensitive to the implications of that action and did not want to be involved in a chain of events associated with an effort to end the investigation or fire the Special Counsel.746McGahn recalled that during the summer of 2017, he and the President discussed the fact that if Sessions were no longer in his position the Special Counsel would report directly to a non-recused Attorney General.747 McGahn told the President that things might not change much under a new Attorney General.748 McGahn also recalled that in or around July 2017, the President frequently brought up his displeasure with Sessions.749 Hicks recalled that the President viewed Sessions’s recusal from the Russia investigation as an act of disloyalty.750 In addition to criticizing Sessions’s recusal, the President raised other concerns about Sessions and his job performance with McGahn and Hicks.751741 Porter 4/13/18 302, at 11; Porter 5/8/18 302, at 6. Because of Sessions’s recusal, if Rosenstein were no longer in his position, Brand would, by default, become the DOJ official in charge of supervising the Special Counsel’s investigation, and if both Sessions and Rosenstein were removed, Brand would be next in line to become Acting Attorney General for all DOJ matters. See 28 U.S.C. $ 508.742 Porter 4/13/18 302, at 11; Porter 5/8/18 302, at 6.743 SC RRP000020 (Porter 7/10/17 Notes).744 Porter 4/13/18 302, at 11-12.745 Porter 4/13/18 302, at 11-12.746 Porter 4/13/18 302, at 11-12. Brand confirmed that no one ever raised with her the prospect of taking over the Russia investigation or becoming Attorney General. Brand 1/29/19 302, at 2.747 McGahn 12/14/17 302, at 11.748 McGahn 12/14/17 302, at 11.749 McGahn 12/14/17 302, at 9.750 Hicks 3/13/18 302, at 10.751 McGahn 12/14/17 302, at 9; Hicks 3/13/18 302, at 10.Vol. 2, Page 108Later in 2017, the President continued to urge Sessions to reverse his recusal from campaign-related investigations and considered replacing Sessions with an Attorney General who would not be recused.On October 16, 2017, the President met privately with Sessions and said that the Department of Justice was not investigating individuals and events that the President thought the Department should be investigating.752 According to contemporaneous notes taken by Porter, who was at the meeting, the President mentioned Clinton’s emails and said, “Don’t have to tell us, just take [a] look.”753 Sessions did not offer any assurances or promises to the President that the Department of Justice would comply with that request.754 Two days later, on October 18, 2017, the President tweeted, “Wow, FBI confirms report that James Comey drafted letter exonerating Crooked Hillary Clinton long before investigation was complete. Many people not interviewed, including Clinton herself. Comey stated under oath that he didn’t do this-obviously a fix? Where is Justice Dept?"755 On October 29, 2017, the President tweeted that there was “ANGER &amp; UNITY” over a “lack of investigation” of Clinton and “the Comey fix,” and concluded: “DO SOMETHING!"756On December 6, 2017, five days after Flynn pleaded guilty to lying about his contacts with the Russian government, the President asked to speak with Sessions in the Oval Office at the end of a cabinet meeting.757 During that Oval Office meeting, which Porter attended, the President again suggested that Sessions could “unrecuse,” which Porter linked to taking back supervision of the Russia investigation and directing an investigation of Hillary Clinton.758 According to contemporaneous notes taken by Porter, the President said, “I don’t know if you could un-recuse yourself. You’d be a hero. Not telling you to do anything. Dershowitz says POTUS can get involved. Can order AG to investigate. I don’t want to get involved. I’m not going to get involved. I’m not going to do anything or direct you to do anything. I just want to be treated fairly.”759 According to Porter’s notes, Sessions responded, “We are taking steps; whole new leadership752 Porter 5/8/18 302, at 10.753 SC_RRP000024 (Porter 10/16/17 Notes); see Porter 5/8/18 302, at 10.754 Porter 5/8/18 302, at 10.755 @realDonaldTrump 10/18/17 (6:21 a.m. ET) Tweet; @realDonaldTrump 10/18/17 (6:27 a.m. ET) Tweet.756 @realDonaldTrump 10/29/17 (9:53 a.m. ET) Tweet; @realDonald Trump 10/29/17 (10:02 a.m. ET) Tweet; @realDonald Trump 10/29/17 (10:17 a.m. ET) Tweet.757 Porter 4/13/18 302, at 5-6; see SC RRP000031 (Porter 12/6/17 Notes) (“12:45pm With the President, Gen. Kelly, and Sessions (who I pulled in after the Cabinet meeting)”); SC RRP000033 (Porter 12/6/17 Notes) (“Post-cabinet meeting - POTUS asked me to get AG Sessions. Asked me to stay. Also COS Kelly.”).758 Porter 5/8/18 302, at 12; Porter 4/13/18 302, at 5-6.759 SC RRP000033 (Porter 12/6/17 Notes); see Porter 4/13/18 302, at 6; Porter 5/8/18 302, at 12.Vol. 2, Page 109team. Professionals; will operate according to the law.”760 Sessions also said, “I never saw anything that was improper,” which Porter thought was noteworthy because it did not fit with the previous discussion about Clinton.761 Porter understood Sessions to be reassuring the President that he was on the President’s team.762At the end of December, the President told the New York Times it was “too bad” that Sessions had recused himself from the Russia investigation.763 When asked whether Holder had been a more loyal Attorney General to President Obama than Sessions was to him, the President said, “I don’t want to get into loyalty, but I will tell you that, I will say this: Holder protected President Obama. Totally protected him. When you look at the things that they did, and Holder protected the president. And I have great respect for that, I’ll be honest.”764 Later in January, the President brought up the idea of replacing Sessions and told Porter that he wanted to “clean house” at the Department of Justice.765 In a meeting in the White House residence that Porter attended on January 27, 2018, Porter recalled that the President talked about the great attorneys he had in the past with successful win records, such as Roy Cohn and Jay Goldberg, and said that one of his biggest failings as President was that he had not surrounded himself with good attorneys, citing Sessions as an example.766 The President raised Sessions’s recusal and brought up and criticized the Special Counsel’s investigation.767Over the next several months, the President continued to criticize Sessions in tweets and media interviews and on several occasions appeared to publicly encourage him to take action in the Russia investigation despite his recusal.768 On June 5, 2018, for example, the President760 SC_RRP000033 (Porter 12/6/17 Notes); see Porter 4/13/18 302, at 6.761 SC_RRP000033 (Porter 12/6/17 Notes); Porter 4/13/18 302, at 6.762 Porter 4/13/18 302, at 6-7.763 Michael S. Schmidt &amp; Michael D. Shear, Trump Says Russia Inquiry Makes U.S. “Look Very Bad”, New York Times (Dec. 28, 2017).764 Michael S. Schmidt &amp; Michael D. Shear, Trump Says Russia Inquiry Makes U.S. “Look Very Bad", New York Times (Dec. 28, 2017).765 Porter 4/13/18 302, at 14.766 Porter 5/8/18 302, at 15. Contemporaneous notes Porter took of the conversation state, “Roy Cohn (14-0) / Jay Goldberg (12-0).” SC_RRP000047 (Porter 1/27/18 Notes).767 Porter 5/8/18 302, at 15-16.768 See, e.g., @realDonaldTrump 2/28/18 (9:34 a.m. ET) Tweet ("Why is A.G. Jeff Sessions asking the Inspector General to investigate potentially massive FISA abuse. Will take forever, has no prosecutorial power and already late with reports on Comey etc. Isn’t the I.G. an Obama guy? Why not use Justice Department lawyers? DISGRACEFUL!”); @realDonaldTrump 4/7/18 (4:52 p.m. ET) Tweet (“Lawmakers of the House Judiciary Committee are angrily accusing the Department of Justice of missing the Thursday Deadline for turning over UNREDACTED Documents relating to FISA abuse, FBI, Comey, Lynch, McCabe, Clinton Emails and much more. Slow walking - what is going on? BAD!”); @realDonaldTrump 4/22/18 (8:22 a.m. ET) Tweet (“GOP Lawmakers asking Sessions to Investigate Comey and Hillary Clinton.’ @FoxNews Good luck with that request!”); @realDonaldTrump 12/16/18 (3:37 p.m. ET) TweetVol. 2, Page 110tweeted, “The Russian Witch Hunt Hoax continues, all because Jeff Sessions didn’t tell me he was going to recuse himself. ... I would have quickly picked someone else. So much time and money wasted, so many lives ruined ... and Sessions knew better than most that there was No Collusion!"769 On August 1, 2018, the President tweeted that “"Attorney General Jeff Sessions should stop this Rigged Witch Hunt right now.”770 On August 23, 2018, the President publicly criticized Sessions in a press interview and suggested that prosecutions at the Department of Justice were politically motivated because Paul Manafort had been prosecuted but Democrats had not.771 The President said, “I put in an Attorney General that never took control of the Justice Department, Jeff Sessions.”772 That day, Sessions issued a press statement that said, “I took control of the Department of Justice the day I was sworn in .... While I am Attorney General, the actions of the Department of Justice will not be improperly influenced by political considerations.”773 The next day, the President tweeted a response: “Department of Justice will not be improperly influenced by political considerations.’ Jeff, this is GREAT, what everyone wants, so look into all of the corruption on the other side including deleted Emails, Comey lies &amp; leaks, Mueller conflicts, McCabe, Strzok, Page, Ohr, FISA abuse, Christopher Steele &amp; his phony and corrupt Dossier, the Clinton Foundation, illegal surveillance of Trump campaign, Russian collusion by Dems - and so much more. Open up the papers &amp; documents without redaction? Come on Jeff, you can do it, the country is waiting!”774On November 7, 2018, the day after the midterm elections, the President replaced Sessions with Sessions’s chief of staff as Acting Attorney General.775In analyzing the President’s efforts to have Sessions unrecuse himself and regain control of the Russia investigation, the following considerations and evidence are relevant to the elements of obstruction of justice:a. Obstructive act. To determine if the President’s efforts to have the Attorney General unrecuse could qualify as an obstructive act, it would be necessary to assess evidence on whether those actions would naturally impede the Russia investigation. That inquiry would take into account the supervisory role that the Attorney General, if unrecused, would play in the Russia investigation. It also would have to take into account that the Attorney General’s recusal covered("Jeff Sessions should be ashamed of himself for allowing this total HOAX to get started in the first place!”).769 @realDonald Trump 6/5/18 (7:31 a.m. ET) Tweet.770 @realDonaldTrump 8/1/18 (9:24 a.m. ET) Tweet.771 Fox &amp; Friends Interview of President Trump, Fox News (Aug. 23, 2018).772 Fox &amp; Friends Interview of President Trump, Fox News (Aug. 23, 2018).773 Sessions 8/23/18 Press Statement.774 @realDonaldTrump 8/24/18 (6:17 a.m. ET) Tweet; @realDonaldTrump 8/24/18 (6:28 a.m. ET) Tweet.775 @realDonald Trump 11/7/18 (2:44 p.m. ET) Tweet.Vol. 2, Page 111other campaign-related matters. The inquiry would not turn on what Attorney General Sessions would actually do if unrecused, but on whether the efforts to reverse his recusal would naturally have had the effect of impeding the Russia investigation.On multiple occasions in 2017, the President spoke with Sessions about reversing his recusal so that he could take over the Russia investigation and begin an investigation and prosecution of Hillary Clinton. For example, in early summer 2017, Sessions recalled the President asking him to unrecuse, but Sessions did not take it as a directive. When the President raised the issue again in December 2017, the President said, as recorded by Porter, “Not telling you to do anything. ... I’m not going to get involved. I’m not going to do anything or direct you to do anything. I just want to be treated fairly.” The duration of the President’s efforts — which spanned from March 2017 to August 2018 — and the fact that the President repeatedly criticized Sessions in public and in private for failing to tell the President that he would have to recuse is relevant to assessing whether the President’s efforts to have Sessions unrecuse could qualify as obstructive acts.b. Nexus to an official proceeding. As described above, by mid-June 2017, the existence of a grand jury investigation supervised by the Special Counsel was public knowledge. In addition, in July 2017, a different grand jury supervised by the Special Counsel was empaneled in the District of Columbia, and the press reported on the existence of this grand jury in early August 2017.776 Whether the conduct towards the Attorney General would have a foreseeable impact on those proceedings turns on much of the same evidence discussed above with respect to the obstructive-act element.c. Intent. There is evidence that at least one purpose of the President’s conduct toward Sessions was to have Sessions assume control over the Russia investigation and supervise it in a way that would restrict its scope. By the summer of 2017, the President was aware that the Special Counsel was investigating him personally for obstruction of justice. And in the wake of the disclosures of emails about the June 9 meeting between Russians and senior members of the campaign, see Volume II, Section II.G, supra, it was evident that the investigation into the campaign now included the President’s son, son-in-law, and former campaign manager. The President had previously and unsuccessfully sought to have Sessions publicly announce that the Special Counsel investigation would be confined to future election interference. Yet Sessions remained recused. In December 2017, shortly after Flynn pleaded guilty, the President spoke to Sessions in the Oval Office with only Porter present and told Sessions that he would be a hero if he unrecused. Porter linked that request to the President’s desire that Sessions take back supervision of the Russia investigation and direct an investigation of Hillary Clinton. The President said in that meeting that he “just want[ed] to be treated fairly,” which could reflect his perception that it was unfair that he was being investigated while Hillary Clinton was not. But a principal effect of that act would be to restore supervision of the Russia investigation to the Attorney General — a position that the President frequently suggested should be occupied by someone like Eric Holder and Bobby Kennedy, who the President described as protecting their776 E.g., Del Quentin Wilbur &amp; Byron Tau, Special Counsel Robert Mueller Impanels Washington Grand Jury in Russia Probe, Wall Street Journal (Aug. 3, 2017); Carol D. Leonnig et al., Special Counsel Mueller using grand jury in federal court in Washington as part of Russia investigation, Washington Post (Aug. 3, 2017).Vol. 2, Page 112presidents. A reasonable inference from those statements and the President’s actions is that the President believed that an unrecused Attorney General would play a protective role and could shield the President from the ongoing Russia investigation.In late January 2018, the media reported that in June 2017 the President had ordered McGahn to have the Special Counsel fired based on purported conflicts of interest but McGahn had refused, saying he would quit instead. After the story broke, the President, through his personal counsel and two aides, sought to have McGahn deny that he had been directed to remove the Special Counsel. Each time he was approached, McGahn responded that he would not refute the press accounts because they were accurate in reporting on the President’s effort to have the Special Counsel removed. The President later personally met with McGahn in the Oval Office with only the Chief of Staff present and tried to get McGahn to say that the President never ordered him to fire the Special Counsel. McGahn refused and insisted his memory of the President’s direction to remove the Special Counsel was accurate. In that same meeting, the President challenged McGahn for taking notes of his discussions with the President and asked why he had told Special Counsel investigators that he had been directed to have the Special Counsel removed.On January 25, 2018, the New York Times reported that in June 2017, the President had ordered McGahn to have the Department of Justice fire the Special Counsel.777 According to the article, “[a]mid the first wave of news media reports that Mr. Mueller was examining a possible obstruction case, the president began to argue that Mr. Mueller had three conflicts of interest that disqualified him from overseeing the investigation.”778 The article further reported that “[a]fter receiving the president’s order to fire Mr. Mueller, the White House counsel ... refused to ask the Justice Department to dismiss the special counsel, saying he would quit instead.”779 The article stated that the president “ultimately backed down after the White House counsel threatened to resign rather than carry out the directive.”780 After the article was published, the President777 Michael S. Schmidt &amp; Maggie Haberman, Trump Ordered Mueller Fired, but Backed Off When White House Counsel Threatened to Quit, New York Times (Jan. 25. 2018).778 Michael S. Schmidt &amp; Maggie Haberman, Trump Ordered Mueller Fired, but Backed Off When White House Counsel Threatened to Quit, New York Times (Jan. 25. 2018).779 Michael S. Schmidt &amp; Maggie Haberman, Trump Ordered Mueller Fired, but Backed Off When White House Counsel Threatened to Quit, New York Times (Jan. 25. 2018).780 Michael S. Schmidt &amp; Maggie Haberman, Trump Ordered Mueller Fired, but Backed Off When White House Counsel Threatened to Quit, New York Times (Jan. 25. 2018).Vol. 2, Page 113dismissed the story when asked about it by reporters, saying, “Fake news, folks. Fake news. A typical New York Times fake story.”781The next day, the Washington Post reported on the same event but added that McGahn had not told the President directly that he intended to resign rather than carry out the directive to have the Special Counsel terminated.782 In that respect, the Post story clarified the Times story, which could be read to suggest that McGahn had told the President of his intention to quit, causing the President to back down from the order to have the Special Counsel fired.783On January 26, 2018, the President’s personal counsel called McGahn’s attorney and said that the President wanted McGahn to put out a statement denying that he had been asked to fire the Special Counsel and that he had threatened to quit in protest.784 McGahn’s attorney spoke with McGahn about that request and then called the President’s personal counsel to relay that McGahn would not make a statement.785 McGahn’s attorney informed the President’s personal counsel that the Times story was accurate in reporting that the President wanted the Special Counsel removed.786 Accordingly, McGahn’s attorney said, although the article was inaccurate in some other respects, McGahn could not comply with the President’s request to dispute the story.787 Hicks recalled relaying to the President that one of his attorneys had spoken to McGahn’s attorney about the issue.788781 Sophie Tatum &amp; Kara Scannell, Trump denies he called for Mueller’s firing, CNN (Jan. 26, 2018); Michael S. Schmidt &amp; Maggie Haberman, Trump Ordered Mueller Fired, but Backed Off When White House Counsel Threatened to Quit, New York Times (Jan. 25, 2018).782 The Post article stated, “Despite internal objections, Trump decided to assert that Mueller had unacceptable conflicts of interest and moved to remove him from his position. ... In response, McGahn said he would not remain at the White House if Trump went through with the move. ... McGahn did not deliver his resignation threat directly to Trump but was serious about his threat to leave.” Rosalind S. Helderman &amp; Josh Dawsey, Trump moved to fire Mueller in June, bringing White House counsel to the brink of leaving, Washington Post (Jan. 26, 2018).783 Rosalind S. Helderman &amp; Josh Dawsey, Trump moved to fire Mueller in June, bringing White House counsel to the brink of leaving, Washington Post (Jan. 26, 2018); see McGahn 3/8/17 302, at 3-4.784 McGahn 3/8/18 302, at 3 (agent note).785 McGahn 3/8/18 302, at 3 (agent note).786 McGahn 3/8/18 302, at 3-4 (agent note).787 McGahn 3/8/18 302, at 4 (agent note).788 Hicks 3/13/18 302, at 11. Hicks also recalled that the President spoke on the phone that day with Chief of Staff John Kelly and that the President said Kelly told him that McGahn had totally refuted the story and was going to put out a statement. Hicks 3/13/18 302, at 11. But Kelly said that he did not speak to McGahn when the article came out and did not tell anyone he had done so. Kelly 8/2/18 302, at 1-2.Vol. 2, Page 114Also on January 26, 2017, Hicks recalled that the President asked Sanders to contact McGahn about the story.789 McGahn told Sanders there was no need to respond and indicated that some of the article was accurate.790 Consistent with that position, McGahn did not correct the Times story.On February 4, 2018, Priebus appeared on Meet the Press and said he had not heard the President say that he wanted the Special Counsel fired.791 After Priebus’s appearance, the President called Priebus and said he did a great job on Meet the Press.792 The President also told Priebus that the President had never said any of those things about” the Special Counsel.793The next day, on February 5, 2018, the President complained about the Times article to Porter.794 The President told Porter that the article was “bullshit” and he had not sought to terminate the Special Counsel.795 The President said that McGahn leaked to the media to make himself look good.796 The President then directed Porter to tell McGahn to create a record to make clear that the President never directed McGahn to fire the Special Counsel.797 Porter thought the matter should be handled by the White House communications office, but the President said he wanted McGahn to write a letter to the file “for our records” and wanted something beyond a press statement to demonstrate that the reporting was inaccurate.798 The President referred to McGahn as a “lying bastard” and said that he wanted a record from him.799 Porter recalled the President789 Hicks 3/13/18 302, at 11. Sanders did not recall whether the President asked her to speak to McGahn or if she did it on her own. Sanders 7/23/18 302, at 2.790 Sanders 7/23/18 302, at 1-2.791 Meet the Press Interview with Reince Priebus, NBC (Feb. 4, 2018).792 Priebus 4/3/18 302, at 10.793 Priebus 4/3/18 302, at 10.794 Porter 4/13/18 302, at 16-17. Porter did not recall the timing of this discussion with the President. Porter 4/13/18 302, at 17. Evidence indicates it was February 5, 2018. On the back of a pocket card dated February 5, 2018, Porter took notes that are consistent with his description of the discussion: “COS: (1) Letter from DM - Never threatened to quit - DJT never told him to fire M.” SC RRP000053 (Porter Undated Notes). Porter said it was possible he took the notes on a day other than February 5. Porter 4/13/18 302, at 17. But Porter also said that “COS” referred to matters he wanted to discuss with Chief of Staff Kelly, Porter 4/13/18 302, at 17, and Kelly took notes dated February 5, 2018, that state “POTUS – Don McGahn letter - Mueller + resigning.” WH000017684 (Kelly 2/5/18 Notes). Kelly said he did not recall what the notes meant, but thought the President may have “mused” about having McGahn write a letter. Kelly 8/2/18 302, at 3. McGahn recalled that Porter spoke with him about the President’s request about two weeks after the New York Times story was published, which is consistent with the discussion taking place on or about February 5. McGahn 3/8/18 302, at 4.795 Porter 4/13/18 302, at 17.796 Porter 4/13/18 302, at 17.797 Porter 4/13/18 302, at 17.798 Porter 4/13/18 302, at 17; Porter 5/8/18 302, at 18.799 Porter 4/13/18 302, at 17; Porter 5/8/18 302, at 18.Vol. 2, Page 115saying something to the effect of, “If he doesn’t write a letter, then maybe I’ll have to get rid of him.”800Later that day, Porter spoke to McGahn to deliver the President’s message.801 Porter told McGahn that he had to write a letter to dispute that he was ever ordered to terminate the Special Counsel.802 McGahn shrugged off the request, explaining that the media reports were true.803 McGahn told Porter that the President had been insistent on firing the Special Counsel and that McGahn had planned to resign rather than carry out the order, although he had not personally told the President he intended to quit.804 Porter told McGahn that the President suggested that McGahn would be fired if he did not write the letter.805 McGahn dismissed the threat, saying that the optics would be terrible if the President followed through with firing him on that basis.806 McGahn said he would not write the letter the President had requested.807 Porter said that to his knowledge the issue of McGahn’s letter never came up with the President again, but Porter did recall telling Kelly about his conversation with McGahn.808The next day, on February 6, 2018, Kelly scheduled time for McGahn to meet with him and the President in the Oval Office to discuss the Times article.809 The morning of the meeting, the President’s personal counsel called McGahn’s attorney and said that the President was going to be speaking with McGahn and McGahn could not resign no matter what happened in the meeting.810The President began the Oval Office meeting by telling McGahn that the New York Times story did not “look good” and McGahn needed to correct it.811 McGahn recalled the President said, “I never said to fire Mueller. I never said ‘fire.’ This story doesn’t look good. You need to correct this. You’re the White House counsel.”812800 Porter 4/13/18 302, at 17.801 Porter 4/13/18 302, at 17; McGahn 3/8/18 302, at 4.802 Porter 4/13/18 302, at 17; McGahn 3/8/18 302, at 4.803 Porter 4/13/18 302, at 17; McGahn 3/8/18 302, at 4.804 Porter 4/13/18 302, at 17; McGahn 3/8/18 302, at 4.805 Porter 4/13/18 302, at 17; McGahn 3/8/18 302, at 4.806 Porter 4/13/18 302, at 17-18; McGahn 3/8/18 302, at 4.807 McGahn 3/8/18 302, at 4.808 Porter 4/13/18 302, at 18.809 McGahn 3/8/18 302, at 4; WH000017685 (Kelly 2/6/18 Notes). McGahn recalled that, before the Oval Office meeting, he told Kelly that he was not inclined to fix the article. McGahn 3/8/18 302, at 4.810 McGahn 3/8/18 302, at 5 (agent note); 2/26/19 Email, Counsel for Don McGahn to Special Counsel’s Office (confirming February 6, 2018 date of call from the President’s personal counsel).811 McGahn 3/8/18 302, at 4; Kelly 8/2/18 302, at 2.812 McGahn 3/8/18 302, at 4; Kelly 8/2/18 302, at 2.Vol. 2, Page 116In response, McGahn acknowledged that he had not told the President directly that he planned to resign, but said that the story was otherwise accurate. 813 The President asked McGahn, “Did I say the word ‘fire’?814 McGahn responded, “What you said is, ‘Call Rod [Rosenstein), tell Rod that Mueller has conflicts and can’t be the Special Counsel.’”815 The President responded, “I never said that."816 The President said he merely wanted McGahn to raise the conflicts issue with Rosenstein and leave it to him to decide what to do.817 McGahn told the President he did not understand the conversation that way and instead had heard, “Call Rod. There are conflicts. Mueller has to go."818 The President asked McGahn whether he would “do a correction,” and McGahn said no.819 McGahn thought the President was testing his mettle to see how committed McGahn was to what happened. 820 Kelly described the meeting as “a little tense."821The President also asked McGahn in the meeting why he had told Special Counsel’s Office investigators that the President had told him to have the Special Counsel removed. 822 McGahn responded that he had to and that his conversations with the President were not protected by attorney-client privilege. 823 The President then asked, “What about these notes? Why do you take notes? Lawyers don’t take notes. I never had a lawyer who took notes."824 McGahn responded that he keeps notes because he is a “real lawyer” and explained that notes create a record and are not a bad thing.825 The President said, “I’ve had a lot of great lawyers, like Roy Cohn. He did not take notes."826After the Oval Office meeting concluded, Kelly recalled McGahn telling him that McGahn and the President “did have that conversation” about removing the Special Counsel. 827 McGahn recalled that Kelly said that he had pointed out to the President after the Oval Office that McGahn813 McGahn 3/8/18 302, at 4.814 McGahn 3/8/18 302, at 4; Kelly 8/2/18 302, at 2.815 McGahn 3/8/18 302, at 5.816 McGahn 3/8/18 302, at 5.817 McGahn 3/8/18 302, at 5.818 McGahn 3/8/18 302, at 5.819 McGahn 3/8/18 302, at 5; Kelly 8/2/18 302, at 2.820 McGahn 3/8/18 302, at 5.821 Kelly 8/2/18 302, at 2.822 McGahn 3/8/18 302, at 5.823 McGahn 3/8/18 302, at 5.824 McGahn 3/8/18 302, at 5. McGahn said the President was referring to Donaldson’s notes, which the President thought of as McGahn’s notes. McGahn 3/8/18 302, at 5.825 McGahn 3/8/18 302, at 5.826 McGahn 3/8/18 302, at 5.827 Kelly 8/2/18 302, at 2. 117Vol. 2, Page 117had not backed down and would not budge. 828 Following the Oval Office meeting, the President’s personal counsel called McGahn’s counsel and relayed that the President was “fine” with McGahn 829In analyzing the President’s efforts to have McGahn deny that he had been ordered to have the Special Counsel removed, the following evidence is relevant to the elements of obstruction of justice:a. Obstructive act. The President’s repeated efforts to get McGahn to create a record denying that the President had directed him to remove the Special Counsel would qualify as an obstructive act if it had the natural tendency to constrain McGahn from testifying truthfully or to undermine his credibility as a potential witness if he testified consistently with his memory, rather than with what the record said.There is some evidence that at the time the New York Times and Washington Post stories were published in late January 2018, the President believed the stories were wrong and that he had never told McGahn to have Rosenstein remove the Special Counsel. The President correctly understood that McGahn had not told the President directly that he planned to resign. In addition, the President told Priebus and Porter that he had not sought to terminate the Special Counsel, and in the Oval Office meeting with McGahn, the President said, “I never said to fire Mueller. I never said ‘fire.’” That evidence could indicate that the President was not attempting to persuade McGahn to change his story but was instead offering his own — but different-recollection of the substance of his June 2017 conversations with McGahn and McGahn’s reaction to them.Other evidence cuts against that understanding of the President’s conduct. As previously described, see Volume II, Section II.E, supra, substantial evidence supports McGahn’s account that the President had directed him to have the Special Counsel removed, including the timing and context of the President’s directive; the manner in which McGahn reacted; and the fact that the President had been told the conflicts were insubstantial, were being considered by the Department of Justice, and should be raised with the President’s personal counsel rather than brought to McGahn. In addition, the President’s subsequent denials that he had told McGahn to have the Special Counsel removed were carefully worded. When first asked about the New York Times story, the President said, “Fake news, folks. Fake news. A typical New York Times fake story.” And when the President spoke with McGahn in the Oval Office, he focused on whether he had used the word “fire,” saying, “I never said to fire Mueller. I never said ‘fire’” and “Did I say the word ‘fire’?” The President’s assertion in the Oval Office meeting that he had never directed McGahn to have the Special Counsel removed thus runs counter to the evidence.In addition, even if the President sincerely disagreed with McGahn’s memory of the June 17, 2017 events, the evidence indicates that the President knew by the time of the Oval Office828 McGahn 3/8/18 302, at 5. Kelly did not recall discussing the Oval Office meeting with the President after the fact. Kelly 8/2/18 302, at 2. Handwritten notes taken by Kelly state, “Don[:] Mueller discussion in June. - Bannon Priebus - came out okay.” WH000017685 (Kelly 2/6/18 Notes).829 McGahn 3/8/18 302, at 5 (agent note).Vol. 2, Page 118meeting that McGahn’s account differed and that McGahn was firm in his views. Shortly after the story broke, the President’s counsel told McGahn’s counsel that the President wanted McGahn to make a statement denying he had been asked to fire the Special Counsel, but McGahn responded through his counsel that that aspect of the story was accurate and he therefore could not comply with the President’s request. The President then directed Sanders to tell McGahn to correct the story, but McGahn told her he would not do so because the story was accurate in reporting on the President’s order. Consistent with that position, McGahn never issued a correction. More than a week later, the President brought up the issue again with Porter, made comments indicating the President thought McGahn had leaked the story, and directed Porter to have McGahn create a record denying that the President had tried to fire the Special Counsel. At that point, the President said he might “have to get rid of” McGahn if McGahn did not comply. McGahn again refused and told Porter, as he had told Sanders and as his counsel had told the President’s counsel, that the President had in fact ordered him to have Rosenstein remove the Special Counsel. That evidence indicates that by the time of the Oval Office meeting the President was aware that McGahn did not think the story was false and did not want to issue a statement or create a written record denying facts that McGahn believed to be true. The President nevertheless persisted and asked McGahn to repudiate facts that McGahn had repeatedly said were accurate.b. Nexus to an official proceeding. By January 2018, the Special Counsel’s use of a grand jury had been further confirmed by the return of several indictments. The President also was aware that the Special Counsel was investigating obstruction-related events because, among other reasons, on January 8, 2018, the Special Counsel’s Office provided his counsel with a detailed list of topics for a possible interview with the President. 830 The President knew that McGahn had personal knowledge of many of the events the Special Counsel was investigating and that McGahn had already been interviewed by Special Counsel investigators. And in the Oval Office meeting, the President indicated he knew that McGahn had told the Special Counsel’s Office about the President’s effort to remove the Special Counsel. The President challenged McGahn for disclosing that information and for taking notes that he viewed as creating unnecessary legal exposure. That evidence indicates the President’s awareness that the June 17, 2017 events were relevant to the Special Counsel’s investigation and any grand jury investigation that might grow out of it.To establish a nexus, it would be necessary to show that the President’s actions would have the natural tendency to affect such a proceeding or that they would hinder, delay, or prevent the communication of information to investigators. Because McGahn had spoken to Special Counsel investigators before January 2018, the President could not have been seeking to influence his prior statements in those interviews. But because McGahn had repeatedly spoken to investigators and the obstruction inquiry was not complete, it was foreseeable that he would be interviewed again on obstruction-related topics. If the President were focused solely on a press strategy in seeking to have McGahn refute the New York Times article, a nexus to a proceeding or to further investigative interviews would not be shown. But the President’s efforts to have McGahn write a letter “for our records” approximately ten days after the stories had come out — well past the typical830 1/29/18 Letter, President’s Personal Counsel to Special Counsel’s Office, at 1-2 ("In our conversation of January 8, your office identified the following topics as areas you desired to address with the President in order to complete your investigation on the subjects of alleged collusion and obstruction of justice"; listing 16 topics).Vol. 2, Page 119time to issue a correction for a news story — indicates the President was not focused solely on a press strategy, but instead likely contemplated the ongoing investigation and any proceedings arising from it.c. Intent. Substantial evidence indicates that in repeatedly urging McGahn to dispute that he was ordered to have the Special Counsel terminated, the President acted for the purpose of influencing McGahn’s account in order to deflect or prevent further scrutiny of the President’s conduct towards the investigation.Several facts support that conclusion. The President made repeated attempts to get McGahn to change his story. As described above, by the time of the last attempt, the evidence suggests that the President had been told on multiple occasions that McGahn believed the President had ordered him to have the Special Counsel terminated. McGahn interpreted his encounter with the President in the Oval Office as an attempt to test his mettle and see how committed he was to his memory of what had occurred. The President had already laid the groundwork for pressing McGahn to alter his account by telling Porter that it might be necessary to fire McGahn if he did not deny the story, and Porter relayed that statement to McGahn. Additional evidence of the President’s intent may be gleaned from the fact that his counsel was sufficiently alarmed by the prospect of the President’s meeting with McGahn that he called McGahn’s counsel and said that McGahn could not resign no matter what happened in the Oval Office that day. The President’s counsel was well aware of McGahn’s resolve not to issue what he believed to be a false account of events despite the President’s request. Finally, as noted above, the President brought up the Special Counsel investigation in his Oval Office meeting with McGahn and criticized him for telling this Office about the June 17, 2017 events. The President’s statements reflect his understanding — and his displeasure — that those events would be part of an obstruction-of-justice inquiry.In addition to the interactions with McGahn described above, the President has taken other actions directed at possible witnesses in the Special Counsel’s investigation, including Flynn, Manafort, ■■■■■■■■■ and as described in the next section, Cohen. When Flynn withdrew from a joint defense agreement with the President, the President’s personal counsel stated that Flynn’s actions would be viewed as reflecting “hostility” towards the President. During Manafort’s prosecution and while the jury was deliberating, the President repeatedly stated that Manafort was being treated unfairly and made it known that Manafort could receive a pardon.■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■As previously noted, see Volume II, Section II.B, supra, the President asked for Flynn’s resignation on February 13, 2017. Following Flynn’s resignation, the President made positive public comments about Flynn, describing him as a “wonderful man,” “a fine person,” and a “veryVol. 2, Page 120good person.831 The President also privately asked advisors to pass messages to Flynn conveying that the President still cared about him and encouraging him to stay strong.In late November 2017, Flynn began to cooperate with this Office. On November 22, 2017, Flynn withdrew from a joint defense agreement he had with the President.833 Flynn’s counsel told the President’s personal counsel and counsel for the White House that Flynn could no longer have confidential communications with the White House or the President.834 Later that night, the President’s personal counsel left a voicemail for Flynn’s counsel that said:I understand your situation, but let me see if I can’t state it in starker terms.... [I]t wouldn’t surprise me if you’ve gone on to make a deal with ... the government. ... [I]f ... there’s information that implicates the President, then we’ve got a national security issue, ... so, you know, ... we need some kind of heads up. Um, just for the sake of protecting all our interests if we can. ... [R]emember what we’ve always said about the President and his feelings toward Flynn and, that still remains ... 835On November 23, 2017, Flynn’s attorneys returned the call from the President’s personal counsel to acknowledge receipt of the voicemail.836 Flynn’s attorneys reiterated that they were no longer in a position to share information under any sort of privilege.837 According to Flynn’s attorneys, the President’s personal counsel was indignant and vocal in his disagreement.838 The President’s personal counsel said that he interpreted what they said to him as a reflection of Flynn’s831 See, e.g., Remarks by President Trump in Press Conference, White House (Feb. 16, 2018) (stating that “Flynn is a fine person” and “I don’t think [Flynn] did anything wrong. If anything, he did something right ... You know, he was just doing his job”); Interview of Donald J. Trump, NBC (May 11, 2017) (stating that Flynn is a “very good person”).832 See Priebus 1/18/17 302, at 9-10 (the President asked Priebus to contact Flynn the week he was terminated to convey that the President still cared about him and felt bad about what happened to him; Priebus thought the President did not want Flynn to have a problem with him); McFarland 12/22/17 302, at 18 (about a month or two after Flynn was terminated, the President asked McFarland to get in touch with Flynn and tell him that he was a good guy, he should stay strong, and the President felt bad for him); Flynn 1/19/18 302, at 9 (recalling the call from Priebus and an additional call from Hicks who said she wanted to relay on behalf of the President that the President hoped Flynn was okay); Christie 2/13/19 302, at 3 (describing a phone conversation between Kushner and Flynn the day after Flynn was fired where Kushner said, “You know the President respects you. The President cares about you. I’ll get the President to send out a positive tweet about you later,” and the President nodded his assent to Kushner’s comment promising a tweet).833 Counsel for Flynn 3/1/18 302, at 1.834 Counsel for Flynn 3/1/18 302, at 1.835 11/22/17 Voicemail Transcript, President’s Personal Counsel to Counsel for Michael Flynn.836 Counsel for Flynn 3/1/18 302, at 1.837 Counsel for Flynn 3/1/18 302, at 1.838 Counsel for Flynn 3/1/18 302, at 1. 121Vol. 2, Page 121hostility towards the President and that he planned to inform his client of that interpretation.839 Flynn’s attorneys understood that statement to be an attempt to make them reconsider their position because the President’s personal counsel believed that Flynn would be disturbed to know that such a message would be conveyed to the President. 840On December 1, 2017, Flynn pleaded guilty to making false statements pursuant to a cooperation agreement.841 The next day, the President told the press that he was not concerned about what Flynn might tell the Special Counsel.842 In response to a question about whether the President still stood behind Flynn, the President responded, “We’ll see what happens.”843 Over the next several days, the President made public statements expressing sympathy for Flynn and indicating he had not been treated fairly.844 On December 15, 2017, the President responded to a press inquiry about whether he was considering a pardon for Flynn by saying, “I don’t want to talk about pardons for Michael Flynn yet. We’ll see what happens. Let’s see. I can say this: When you look at what’s gone on with the FBI and with the Justice Department, people are very, very angry."845On October 27, 2017, a grand jury in the District of Columbia indicted Manafort and former deputy campaign manager Richard Gates on multiple felony counts, and on February 22, 2018, a grand jury in the Eastern District of Virginia indicted Manafort and Gates on additional felony839 Counsel for Flynn 3/1/18 302, at 2. Because of attorney-client privilege issues, we did not seek to interview the President’s personal counsel about the extent to which he discussed his statements to Flynn’s attorneys with the President.840 Counsel for Flynn 3/1/18 302, at 2.841 Information, United States v. Michael T. Flynn, 1:17-cr-232 (D.D.C. Dec. 1, 2017), Doc. 1; Plea Agreement, United States v. Michael T. Flynn, 1:17-cr-232 (D.D.C. Dec. 1, 2017), Doc. 3.842 President Trump Remarks on Tax Reform and Michael Flynn’s Guilty Plea, C-SPAN (Dec. 2, 2017).843 President Trump Remarks on Tax Reform and Michael Flynn’s Guilty Plea, C-SPAN (Dec. 2, 2017).844 See @realDonaldTrump 12/2/17 (9:06 p.m. ET) Tweet (“So General Flynn lies to the FBI and his life is destroyed, while Crooked Hillary Clinton, on that now famous FBI holiday “interrogation with no swearing in and no recording, lies many times ... and nothing happens to her? Rigged system, or just a double standard?”); President Trump Departure Remarks, C-SPAN (Dec. 4, 2017) (“Well, I feel badly for General Flynn. I feel very badly. He’s led a very strong life. And I feel very badly.”).845 President Trump White House Departure, C-SPAN (Dec. 15, 2017). 122Vol. 2, Page 122counts.846 The charges in both cases alleged criminal conduct by Manafort that began as early as 2005 and continued through 2018.847In January 2018, Manafort told Gates that he had talked to the President’s personal counsel and they were “going to take care of us."848 Manafort told Gates it was stupid to plead, saying that he had been in touch with the President’s personal counsel and repeating that they should “sit tight” and “we’ll be taken care of."849 Gates asked Manafort outright if anyone mentioned pardons and Manafort said no one used that word.850As the proceedings against Manafort progressed in court, the President told Porter that he never liked Manafort and that Manafort did not know what he was doing on the campaign.851 The President discussed with aides whether and in what way Manafort might be cooperating with the Special Counsel’s investigation, and whether Manafort knew any information that would be harmful to the President.852In public, the President made statements criticizing the prosecution and suggesting that Manafort was being treated unfairly. On June 15, 2018, before a scheduled court hearing that day on whether Manafort’s bail should be revoked based on new charges that Manafort had tampered with witnesses while out on bail, the President told the press, “I feel badly about a lot of them846 Indictment, United States v. Paul J. Manafort, Jr. and Richard W. Gates III, 1:17-cr-201 (D.D.C. Oct, 27, 2017), Doc. 13 (“Manafort and Gates D.D.C. Indictment”); Indictment, United States v. Paul J. Manafort, Jr. and Richard W. Gates III, 1:18-cr-83 (E.D. Va. Feb. 22, 2018), Doc. 9 (“Manafort and Gates E.D. Va. Indictment”)847 Manafort and Gates D.D.C. Indictment; Manafort and Gates E.D. Va. Indictment.848 Gates 4/18/18 302, at 4. In February 2018, Gates pleaded guilty, pursuant to a cooperation plea agreement, to a superseding criminal information charging him with conspiring to defraud and commit multiple offenses (i.e., tax fraud, failure to report foreign bank accounts, and acting as an unregistered agent of a foreign principal) against the United States, as well as making false statements to our Office. Superseding Criminal Information, United States v. Richard W. Gates III, 1:17-cr-201 (D.D.C. Feb. 23, 2018), Doc. 195; Plea Agreement, United States v. Richard W. Gates III, 1:17-cr-201 (D.D.C. Feb. 23, 2018), Doc. 205. Gates has provided information and in-court testimony that the Office has deemed to be reliable.849 Gates 4/18/18 302, at 4.850 Gates 4/18/18 302, at 4. Manafort told this Office that he never told Gates that he had talked to the President’s personal counsel or suggested that they would be taken care of. Manafort also said he hoped for a pardon but never discussed one with the President, although he noticed the President’s public comments about pardons. Manafort 10/1/18 302, at 11. As explained in Volume 1, Section IV.A.8, supra, Manafort entered into a plea agreement with our Office. The U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia determined that he breached the agreement by being untruthful in proffer sessions and before the grand jury. Order, United States v. Manafort, 1:17-cr-201 (D.D.C. Feb. 13, 2019), Doc. 503.851 Porter 5/8/18 302, at 11. Priebus recalled that the President never really liked Manafort. See Priebus 4/3/18 302, at 11. Hicks said that candidate Trump trusted Manafort’s judgment while he worked on the Campaign, but she also once heard Trump tell Gates to keep an eye on Manafort. Hicks 3/13/18 302, at 16.852 Porter 5/8/18 302, at 11; McGahn 12/14/17 302, at 14.Vol. 2, Page 123because I think a lot of it is very unfair. I mean, I look at some of them where they go back 12 years. Like Manafort has nothing to do with our campaign. But I feel so I tell you, I feel a little badly about it. They went back 12 years to get things that he did 12 years ago? ... I feel badly for some people, because they’ve gone back 12 years to find things about somebody, and I don’t think it’s right."853 In response to a question about whether he was considering a pardon for Manafort or other individuals involved in the Special Counsel’s investigation, the President said, “I don’t want to talk about that. No, I don’t want to talk about that.... But look, I do want to see people treated fairly. That’s what it’s all about.” 854 Hours later, Manafort’s bail was revoked and the President tweeted, “Wow, what a tough sentence for Paul Manafort, who has represented Ronald Reagan, Bob Dole and many other top political people and campaigns. Didn’t know Manafort was the head of the Mob. What about Comey and Crooked Hillary and all the others? Very unfair!"855Immediately following the revocation of Manafort’s bail, the President’s personal lawyer, Rudolph Giuliani, gave a series of interviews in which he raised the possibility of a pardon for Manafort. Giuliani told the New York Daily News that “[w]hen the whole thing is over, things might get cleaned up with some presidential pardons.”856 Giuliani also said in an interview that, although the President should not pardon anyone while the Special Counsel’s investigation was ongoing, “when the investigation is concluded, he’s kind of on his own, right?”857 In a CNN interview two days later, Giuliani said, “I guess I should clarify this once and for all. ... The president has issued no pardons in this investigation. The president is not going to issue pardons in this investigation. ... When it’s over, hey, he’s the president of the United States. He retains his pardon power. Nobody is taking that away from him.”858 Giuliani rejected the suggestion that his and the President’s comments could signal to defendants that they should not cooperate in a criminal prosecution because a pardon might follow, saying the comments were “certainly not intended that way."859 Giuliani said the comments only acknowledged that an individual involved in the investigation would not be “excluded from [a pardon], if in fact the president and his advisors ... come to the conclusion that you have been treated unfairly.”860 Giuliani observed that pardons were not unusual in political investigations but said, “That doesn’t mean they’re going to happen853 Remarks by President Trump in Press Gaggle, White House (June 15, 2018).854 Remarks by President Trump in Press Gaggle, White House (June 15, 2018).855 @realDonaldTrump 6/15/18 (1:41 p.m. ET) Tweet.856 Chris Sommerfeldt, Rudy Giuliani says Mueller probe ‘might get cleaned up’ with ‘presidential pardons’ in light of Paul Manafort going to jail, New York Daily News (June 15, 2018).857 Sharon LaFraniere, Judge Orders Paul Manafort Jailed Before Trial, Citing New Obstruction Charges, New York Times (June 15, 2018) (quoting Giuliani).858 State of the Union with Jake Tapper Transcript, CNN (June 17, 2018); see Karoun Demirjian, Giuliani suggests Trump may pardon Manafort after Mueller’s probe, Washington Post (June 17, 2018).859 State of the Union with Jake Tapper Transcript, CNN (June 17, 2018).860 State of the Union with Jake Tapper Transcript, CNN (June 17, 2018).Vol. 2, Page 124here. Doesn’t mean that anybody should rely on it. ... Big signal is, nobody has been pardoned yet.”861On July 31, 2018, Manafort’s criminal trial began in the Eastern District of Virginia, generating substantial news coverage.862 The next day, the President tweeted, “This is a terrible situation and Attorney General Jeff Sessions should stop this Rigged Witch Hunt right now, before it continues to stain our country any further. Bob Mueller is totally conflicted, and his 17 Angry Democrats that are doing his dirty work are a disgrace to USA!”863 Minutes later, the President tweeted, “Paul Manafort worked for Ronald Reagan, Bob Dole and many other highly prominent and respected political leaders. He worked for me for a very short time. Why didn’t government tell me that he was under investigation. These old charges have nothing to do with Collusion—a Hoax!”864 Later in the day, the President tweeted, “Looking back on history, who was treated worse, Alfonse Capone, legendary mob boss, killer and ‘Public Enemy Number One,’ or Paul Manafort, political operative &amp; Reagan/Dole darling, now serving solitary confinement—although convicted of nothing? Where is the Russian Collusion?”865 The President’s tweets about the Manafort trial were widely covered by the press.866 When asked about the President’s tweets, Sanders told the press, “Certainly, the President’s been clear. He thinks Paul Manafort’s been treated unfairly.”867On August 16, 2018, the Manafort case was submitted to the jury and deliberations began. At that time, Giuliani had recently suggested to reporters that the Special Counsel investigation needed to be “done in the next two or three weeks,”868 and media stories reported that a Manafort acquittal would add to criticism that the Special Counsel investigation was not worth the time and expense, whereas a conviction could show that ending the investigation would be premature.869861 State of the Union with Jake Tapper Transcript, CNN (June 17, 2018).862 See, e.g., Katelyn Polantz, Takeaways from day one of the Paul Manafort trial, CNN (July 31, 2018); Frank Bruni, Paul Manafort’s Trial Is Donald Trump’s, Too, New York Times Opinion (July 31, 2018); Rachel Weiner et al., Paul Manafort trial Day 2: Witnesses describe extravagant clothing purchases, home remodels, lavish cars paid with wire transfers, Washington Post (Aug. 1, 2018).863 @realDonald Trump 8/1/18 (9:24 a.m. ET) Tweet. Later that day, when Sanders was asked about the President’s tweet, she told reporters, “It’s not an order. It’s the President’s opinion.” Sarah Sanders, White House Daily Briefing, C-SPAN (Aug. 1, 2018).864 @realDonaldTrump 8/1/18 (9:34 a.m. ET) Tweet.865 @realDonaldTrump 8/1/18 (11:35 a.m. ET) Tweet.866 See, e.g., Carol D. Leonnig et al., Trump calls Manafort prosecution “a hoax,” says Sessions should stop Mueller investigation “right now”, Washington Post (Aug. 1, 2018); Louis Nelson, Trump claims Manafort case has “nothing to do with collusion”, Politico (Aug. 1. 2018).867 Sarah Sanders, White House Daily Briefing, C-SPAN (Aug. 1, 2018).868 Chris Strohm &amp; Shannon Pettypiece, Mueller Probe Doesn’t Need to Shut Down Before Midterms, Officials Say, Bloomberg (Aug. 15, 2018).869 See, e.g., Katelyn Polantz et al., Manafort jury ends first day of deliberations without a verdict, CNN (Aug. 16, 2018); David Voreacos, What Mueller’s Manafort Case Means for the Trump Battle to Come, Bloomberg (Aug. 2, 2018); Gabby Morrongiello, What a guilty verdict for Manafort would mean for Trump and Mueller, Washington Examiner (Aug. 18, 2018).Vol. 2, Page 125On August 17, 2018, as jury deliberations continued, the President commented on the trial from the South Lawn of the White House. In an impromptu exchange with reporters that lasted approximately five minutes, the President twice called the Special Counsel’s investigation a “rigged witch hunt.”870 When asked whether he would pardon Manafort if he was convicted, the President said, “I don’t talk about that now. I don’t talk about that.”871 The President then added, without being asked a further question, “I think the whole Manafort trial is very sad when you look at what’s going on there. I think it’s a very sad day for our country. He worked for me for a very short period of time. But you know what, he happens to be a very good person. And I think it’s very sad what they&amp;aposve done to Paul Manafort.”872 The President did not take further questions.873 In response to the President’s statements, Manafort’s attorney said, “Mr. Manafort really appreciates the support of President Trump.”874On August 21, 2018, the jury found Manafort guilty on eight felony counts. Also on August 21, Michael Cohen pleaded guilty to eight offenses, including a campaign-finance violation that he said had occurred “in coordination with, and at the direction of, a candidate for federal office.”875 The President reacted to Manafort’s convictions that day by telling reporters, “Paul Manafort’s a good man” and “it’s a very sad thing that happened.”876 The President described the Special Counsel’s investigation as “a witch hunt that ends in disgrace.”877 The next day, the President tweeted, “I feel very badly for Paul Manafort and his wonderful family. ‘Justice’ took a 12 year old tax case, among other things, applied tremendous pressure on him and, unlike Michael Cohen, he refused to ‘break’—make up stories in order to get a ‘deal.’ Such respect for a brave man!”878In a Fox News interview on August 22, 2018, the President said: “[Cohen] makes a better deal when he uses me, like everybody else. And one of the reasons I respect Paul Manafort so much is he went through that trial—you know they make up stories. People make up stories. This870 President Trump Remarks on John Brennan and Mueller Probe, C-SPAN (Aug. 17, 2018).871 President Trump Remarks on John Brennan and Mueller Probe, C-SPAN (Aug. 17, 2018).872 President Trump Remarks on John Brennan and Mueller Probe, C-SPAN (Aug. 17, 2018).873 President Trump Remarks on John Brennan and Mueller Probe, C-SPAN (Aug. 17, 2018).874 Trump calls Manafort “very good person,” All In with Chris Hayes (Aug. 17, 2018) (transcript); Manafort lawyer: We appreciate Trump’s support, CNN (Aug. 17, 2018) (https://www.cnn.com/videos/politics/2018/08/17/paul-manafort-attorney-trump-jury-deliberations-schneider-lead-vpx.cnn).875 Transcript at 23, United States v. Michael Cohen, 1:18-cr-602 (S.D.N.Y. Aug. 21, 2018), Doc. 7 (Cohen 8/21/18 Transcript).876 President Trump Remarks on Manafort Trial, C-SPAN (Aug. 21, 2018).877 President Trump Remarks on Manafort Trial, C-SPAN (Aug. 21, 2018).878 @realDonaldTrump 8/22/18 (9:21 a.m. ET) Tweet.Vol. 2, Page 126whole thing about flipping, they call it, I know all about flipping.”879 The President said that flipping was “not fair” and “almost ought to be outlawed.”880 In response to a question about whether he was considering a pardon for Manafort, the President said, “I have great respect for what he’s done, in terms of what he’s gone through. ... He worked for many, many people many, many years, and I would say what he did, some of the charges they threw against him, every consultant, every lobbyist in Washington probably does.”881 Giuliani told journalists that the President “really thinks Manafort has been horribly treated” and that he and the President had discussed the political fallout if the President pardoned Manafort.882 The next day, Giuliani told the Washington Post that the President had asked his lawyers for advice on the possibility of a pardon for Manafort and other aides, and had been counseled against considering a pardon until the investigation concluded.883On September 14, 2018, Manafort pleaded guilty to charges in the District of Columbia and signed a plea agreement that required him to cooperate with investigators.884 Giuliani was reported to have publicly said that Manafort remained in a joint defense agreement with the President following Manafort’s guilty plea and agreement to cooperate, and that Manafort’s attorneys regularly briefed the President’s lawyers on the topics discussed and the information Manafort had provided in interviews with the Special Counsel’s Office.885 On November 26, 2018, the Special Counsel’s Office disclosed in a public court filing that Manafort had breached his plea agreement by lying about multiple subjects.886 The next day, Giuliani said that the President had been “upset for weeks” about what he considered to be “the un-American, horrible treatment of879 Fox &amp; Friends Exclusive Interview with President Trump, Fox News (Aug. 23, 2018) (recorded the previous day).880 Fox &amp; Friends Exclusive Interview with President Trump, Fox News (Aug. 23, 2018) (recorded the previous day).881 Fox &amp; Friends Exclusive Interview with President Trump, Fox News (Aug. 23, 2018) (recorded the previous day).882 Maggie Haberman &amp; Katie Rogers, “How Did We End Up Here?” Trump Wonders as the White House Soldiers On, New York Times (Aug. 22, 2018).883 Carol D. Leonnig &amp; Josh Dawsey, Trump recently sought his lawyers’ advice on possibility of pardoning Manafort, Giuliani says, Washington Post (Aug. 23, 2018).884 Plea Agreement, United States v. Paul J. Manafort, Jr., 1:17-cr-201 (D.D.C. Sept. 14, 2018), Doc. 422.885 Karen Freifeld &amp; Nathan Layne, Trump lawyer: Manafort said nothing damaging in Mueller interviews, Reuters (Oct. 22, 2018); Michael S. Schmidt et al., Manafort’s Lawyer Said to Brief Trump Attorneys on What He Told Mueller, New York Times (Nov. 27, 2018); Dana Bash, Manafort team briefed Giuliani on Mueller meetings, CNN, Posted 11/28/18, available at https://www.cnn.com/videos/politics/2018/11/28/manafort-lawyers-keeping-trump-lawyers-giuliani- updated-mueller-probe-bash-sot-nr-vpx.cnn; see Sean Hannity, Interview with Rudy Giuliani, Fox News (Sept. 14, 2018) (Giuliani: “[T]here was a quote put out by a source close to Manafort that the plea agreement has, and cooperation agreement has, nothing to do with the Trump campaign. ... Now, I know that because I&amp;aposve been privy to a lot of facts I can’t repeat.”).886 Joint Status Report, United States v. Paul J. Manafort, Jr., (D.D.C Nov. 26, 2018), Doc. 455.Vol. 2, Page 127Manafort.”887 In an interview on November 28, 2018, the President suggested that it was “very brave” that Manafort did not “flip”:In response to a question about a potential pardon for Manafort, the President said, “It was never discussed, but I wouldn’t take it off the table. Why would I take it off the table?”890■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■891■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■.892■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■893■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■894■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■887 Stephen Collinson, Trump appears consumed by Mueller investigation as details emerge, CNN (Nov. 29, 2018).888 “Corsi” is a reference to Jerome Corsi, ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ who was involved in efforts to coordinate with WikiLeaks and Assange, and who stated publicly at that time that he had refused a plea offer from the Special Counsel’s Office because he was “not going to sign a lie.” Sara Murray &amp; Eli Watkins, ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ says he won’t agree to plea deal, CNN (Nov. 26, 2018).889 Marisa Schultz &amp; Nikki Schwab, Oval Office Interview with President Trump: Trump says pardon for Paul Manafort still a possibility, New York Post (Nov. 28, 2018). That same day, the President tweeted: “While the disgusting Fake News is doing everything within their power not to report it that way, at least 3 major players are intimating that the Angry Mueller Gang of Dems is viciously telling witnesses to lie about facts &amp; they will get relief. This is our Joseph McCarthy Era!” @realDonaldTrump 11/28/18 (8:39 a.m. ET) Tweet.890 Marisa Schultz &amp; Nikki Schwab, New York Post Oval Office Interview with President Trump: Trump says pardon for Paul Manafort still a possibility, New York Post (Nov. 28, 2018).891 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■892 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■893 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■894 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Vol. 2, Page 128■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■895■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■896■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■897■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■898■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■899■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■895 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■896 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■897 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■898 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■899 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Vol. 2, Page 129■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■900■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■901■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■902■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■903■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■904■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■905■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■906■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■907■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■908900 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■901 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■902 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■903 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■904 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■905 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■906 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■907 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■908 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Vol. 2, Page 130In analyzing the President’s conduct towards Flynn, Manafort, ■■■■■■■■■ the following evidence is relevant to the elements of obstruction of justice:a. Obstructive act. The President’s actions towards witnesses in the Special Counsel’s investigation would qualify as obstructive if they had the natural tendency to prevent particular witnesses from testifying truthfully, or otherwise would have the probable effect of influencing, delaying, or preventing their testimony to law enforcement.With regard to Flynn, the President sent private and public messages to Flynn encouraging him to stay strong and conveying that the President still cared about him before he began to cooperate with the government. When Flynn’s attorneys withdrew him from a joint defense agreement with the President, signaling that Flynn was potentially cooperating with the government, the President’s personal counsel initially reminded Flynn’s counsel of the President’s warm feelings towards Flynn and said “that still remains.” But when Flynn’s counsel reiterated that Flynn could no longer share information under a joint defense agreement, the President’s personal counsel stated that the decision would be interpreted as reflecting Flynn’s hostility towards the President. That sequence of events could have had the potential to affect Flynn’s decision to cooperate, as well as the extent of that cooperation. Because of privilege issues, however, we could not determine whether the President was personally involved in or knew about the specific message his counsel delivered to Flynn’s counsel.With respect to Manafort, there is evidence that the President’s actions had the potential to influence Manafort’s decision whether to cooperate with the government. The President and his personal counsel made repeated statements suggesting that a pardon was a possibility for Manafort, while also making it clear that the President did not want Manafort to “flip” and cooperate with the government. On June 15, 2018, the day the judge presiding over Manafort’s D.C. case was considering whether to revoke his bail, the President said that he “felt badly” for Manafort and stated, “I think a lot of it is very unfair.” And when asked about a pardon for Manafort, the President said, “I do want to see people treated fairly. That’s what it’s all about.” Later that day, after Manafort’s bail was revoked, the President called it a “tough sentence” that was “Very unfair!” Two days later, the President’s personal counsel stated that individuals involved in the Special Counsel’s investigation could receive a pardon “if in fact the [P]resident and his advisors ... come to the conclusion that you have been treated unfairly”—using language that paralleled how the President had already described the treatment of Manafort. Those statements, combined with the President’s commendation of Manafort for being a “brave man” who “refused to ‘break’,” suggested that a pardon was a more likely possibility if Manafort continued not to cooperate with the government. And while Manafort eventually pleaded guilty pursuant to a cooperation agreement, he was found to have violated the agreement by lying to investigators.The President’s public statements during the Manafort trial, including during jury deliberations, also had the potential to influence the trial jury. On the second day of trial, for example, the President called the prosecution a “terrible situation” and a “hoax” that “continues to stain our country” and referred to Manafort as a “Reagan/Dole darling” who was “serving solitary confinement” even though he was “convicted of nothing.” Those statements were widely picked up by the press. While jurors were instructed not to watch or read news stories about the case andVol. 2, Page 131are presumed to follow those instructions, the President’s statements during the trial generated substantial media coverage that could have reached jurors if they happened to see the statements or learned about them from others. And the President’s statements during jury deliberations that Manafort “happens to be a very good person” and that “it’s very sad what they’ve done to Paul Manafort” had the potential to influence jurors who learned of the statements, which the President made just as jurors were considering whether to convict or acquit Manafort.■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■b. Nexus to an official proceeding. The President’s actions towards Flynn, Manafort, ■■■■■■■■■ appear to have been connected to pending or anticipated official proceedings involving each individual. The President’s conduct towards Flynn ■■■■■■■■■ principally occurred when both were under criminal investigation by the Special Counsel’s Office and press reports speculated about whether they would cooperate with the Special Counsel’s investigation. And the President’s conduct towards Manafort was directly connected to the official proceedings involving him. The President made statements about Manafort and the charges against him during Manafort’s criminal trial. And the President’s comments about the prospect of Manafort “flipping” occurred when it was clear the Special Counsel continued to oversee grand jury proceedings.c. Intent. Evidence concerning the President’s intent related to Flynn as a potential witness is inconclusive. As previously noted, because of privilege issues we do not have evidence establishing whether the President knew about or was involved in his counsel’s communications with Flynn’s counsel stating that Flynn’s decision to withdraw from the joint defense agreement and cooperate with the government would be viewed as reflecting “hostility” towards the President. And regardless of what the President’s personal counsel communicated, the President continued to express sympathy for Flynn after he pleaded guilty pursuant to a cooperation agreement, stating that Flynn had “led a very strong life” and the President “fe[lt] very badly” about what had happened to him.Evidence concerning the President’s conduct towards Manafort indicates that the President intended to encourage Manafort to not cooperate with the government. Before Manafort was convicted, the President repeatedly stated that Manafort had been treated unfairly. One day after Manafort was convicted on eight felony charges and potentially faced a lengthy prison term, the President said that Manafort was “a brave man” for refusing to “break” and that “flipping” “almost ought to be outlawed.” At the same time, although the President had privately told aides he did not like Manafort, he publicly called Manafort “a good man” and said he had a “wonderful family.” And when the President was asked whether he was considering a pardon for Manafort, the President did not respond directly and instead said he had “great respect for what [Manafort]’s done, in terms of what he’s gone through.” The President added that “some of the charges they threw against him, every consultant, every lobbyist in Washington probably does.” In light of the President’s counsel’s previous statements that the investigations “might get cleaned up with some presidential pardons” and that a pardon would be possible if the President “come[s] to the conclusion that you have been treated unfairly,” the evidence supports the inference that theVol. 2, Page 132President intended Manafort to believe that he could receive a pardon, which would make cooperation with the government as a means of obtaining a lesser sentence unnecessary.We also examined the evidence of the President’s intent in making public statements about Manafort at the beginning of his trial and when the jury was deliberating. Some evidence supports a conclusion that the President intended, at least in part, to influence the jury. The trial generated widespread publicity, and as the jury began to deliberate, commentators suggested that an acquittal would add to pressure to end the Special Counsel’s investigation. By publicly stating on the second day of deliberations that Manafort “happens to be a very good person” and that “it’s very sad what they’ve done to Paul Manafort” right after calling the Special Counsel’s investigation a “rigged witch hunt,” the President’s statements could, if they reached jurors, have the natural tendency to engender sympathy for Manafort among jurors, and a factfinder could infer that the President intended that result. But there are alternative explanations for the President’s comments, including that he genuinely felt sorry for Manafort or that his goal was not to influence the jury but to influence public opinion. The President’s comments also could have been intended to continue sending a message to Manafort that a pardon was possible. As described above, the President made his comments about Manafort being “a very good person” immediately after declining to answer a question about whether he would pardon Manafort.■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Vol. 2, Page 133The President’s conduct involving Michael Cohen spans the full period of our investigation. During the campaign, Cohen pursued the Trump Tower Moscow project on behalf of the Trump Organization. Cohen briefed candidate Trump on the project numerous times, including discussing whether Trump should travel to Russia to advance the deal. After the media began questioning Trump’s connections to Russia, Cohen promoted a “party line” that publicly distanced Trump from Russia and asserted he had no business there. Cohen continued to adhere to that party line in 2017, when Congress asked him to provide documents and testimony in its Russia investigation. In an attempt to minimize the President’s connections to Russia, Cohen submitted a letter to Congress falsely stating that he only briefed Trump on the Trump Tower Moscow project three times, that he did not consider asking Trump to travel to Russia, that Cohen had not received a response to an outreach he made to the Russian government, and that the project ended in January 2016, before the first Republican caucus or primary. While working on the congressional statement, Cohen had extensive discussions with the President’s personal counsel, who, according to Cohen, said that Cohen should not contradict the President and should keep the statement short and “tight.” After the FBI searched Cohen’s home and office in April 2018, the President publicly asserted that Cohen would not “flip” and privately passed messages of support to him. Cohen also discussed pardons with the President’s personal counsel and believed that if he stayed on message, he would get a pardon or the President would do “something else” to make the investigation end. But after Cohen began cooperating with the government in July 2018, the President publicly criticized him, called him a “rat,” and suggested his family members had committed crimes.The President’s interactions with Cohen as a witness took place against the background of the President’s involvement in the Trump Tower Moscow project.As described in detail in Volume I, Section IV.A.1, supra, from September 2015 until at least June 2016, the Trump Organization pursued a Trump Tower Moscow project in Russia, with negotiations conducted by Cohen, then-executive vice president of the Trump Organization and special counsel to Donald J. Trump.909 The Trump Organization had previously and909 In August 2018 and November 2018, Cohen pleaded guilty to multiple crimes of deception, including making false statements to Congress about the Trump Tower Moscow project, as described later in this section. When Cohen first met with investigators from this Office, he repeated the same lies he told Congress about the Trump Tower Moscow project. Cohen 8/7/18 302, at 12-17. But after Cohen pleaded guilty to offenses in the Southern District of New York on August 21, 2018, he met with investigators again and corrected the record. The Office found Cohen’s testimony in these subsequent proffer sessions to be consistent with and corroborated by other information obtained in the course of the Office’s investigation. The Office’s sentencing submission in Cohen’s criminal case stated: “Starting with his second meeting with the [Special Counsel’s Office] in September 2018, the defendant has accepted responsibility not only for his false statements concerning the [Trump Tower] Moscow Project, but also his broader efforts through public statements and testimony before Congress to minimize his role in, and what he knew about, contacts between the [Trump Organization] and Russian interests during the course of the campaign. ... The information provided by Cohen about the [Trump Tower] Moscow Project in these proffer sessions is consistent with and corroborated by other information obtained in the course of the [Special Counsel’s Office’s] investigation. ... The defendant, without prompting by the [Special Counsel’s Office], also corrected other false and misleading statements that he had made concerning his outreach to and contacts with Russian officials during the course of the campaign.” Gov’t Sentencing Submission at 4, United States v. Michael Cohen, 1:18-cr-850 (S.D.N.Y. Dec. 7, 2018), Doc. 14. At Cohen’s sentencing, our Office further explained that Cohen had “provided valuable information ... while taking care and being careful to note what he knows and what he doesn’t know.” Transcript at 19, United States v. Michael Cohen, 1:18-cr-850 (S.D.N.Y. Dec. 12, 2018), Doc. 17 (Cohen 12/12/18 Transcript).Vol. 2, Page 134unsuccessfully pursued a building project in Moscow.910 According to Cohen, in approximately September 2015 he obtained internal approval from Trump to negotiate on behalf of the Trump Organization to have a Russian corporation build a tower in Moscow that licensed the Trump name and brand.911 Cohen thereafter had numerous brief conversations with Trump about the project.912 Cohen recalled that Trump wanted to be updated on any developments with Trump Tower Moscow and on several occasions brought the project up with Cohen to ask what was happening on it.913 Cohen also discussed the project on multiple occasions with Donald Trump Jr. and Ivanka Trump.914In the fall of 2015, Trump signed a Letter of Intent for the project that specified highly lucrative terms for the Trump Organization.915 In December 2015, Felix Sater, who was handling negotiations between Cohen and the Russian corporation, asked Cohen for a copy of his and Trump’s passports to facilitate travel to Russia to meet with government officials and possible financing partners.916 Cohen recalled discussing the trip with Trump and requesting a copy of Trump’s passport from Trump’s personal secretary, Rhona Graff.917By January 2016, Cohen had become frustrated that Sater had not set up a meeting with Russian government officials, so Cohen reached out directly by email to the office of Dmitry910 See Volume 1, Section IV.A.1, supra (noting that starting in at least 2013, several employees of the Trump Organization, including then-president of the organization Donald J. Trump, pursued a Trump Tower Moscow deal with several Russian counterparties).911 Cohen 9/12/18 302, at 1-4; Cohen 8/7/18 302, at 15.912 Cohen 9/12/18 302, at 2, 4.913 Cohen 9/12/18 302, at 4.914 Cohen 9/12/18 302, at 4, 10.915 MDC-H-000618-25 (10/28/15 Letter of Intent, signed by Donald J. Trump, Trump Acquisition, LLC and Andrey Rozov, I.C. Expert Investment Company); Cohen 9/12/18 302, at 3; Written Responses of Donald J. Trump (Nov. 20, 2018), at 15 (Response to Question III, Parts (a) through (g)).916 MDC-H-000600 (12/19/15 Email, Sater to Cohen).917 Cohen 9/12/18 302, at 5.Vol. 2, Page 135Peskov, who was Putin’s deputy chief of staff and press secretary.918 On January 20, 2016, Cohen received an email response from Elena Poliakova, Peskov’s personal assistant, and phone records confirm that they then spoke for approximately twenty minutes, during which Cohen described the Trump Tower Moscow project and requested assistance in moving the project forward.919 Cohen recalled briefing candidate Trump about the call soon afterwards.920 Cohen told Trump he spoke with a woman he identified as “someone from the Kremlin,” and Cohen reported that she was very professional and asked detailed questions about the project.921 Cohen recalled telling Trump he wished the Trump Organization had assistants who were as competent as the woman from the Kremlin.922Cohen thought his phone call renewed interest in the project.923 The day after Cohen’s call with Poliakova, Sater texted Cohen, asking him to “[c]all me when you have a few minutes to chat ... It’s about Putin they called today.”924 Sater told Cohen that the Russian government liked the project and on January 25, 2016, sent an invitation for Cohen to visit Moscow “for a working visit.”925 After the outreach from Sater, Cohen recalled telling Trump that he was waiting to hear back on moving the project forward.926After January 2016, Cohen continued to have conversations with Sater about Trump Tower Moscow and continued to keep candidate Trump updated about those discussions and the status of the project.927 Cohen recalled that he and Trump wanted Trump Tower Moscow to succeed and that Trump never discouraged him from working on the project because of the campaign.928 In March or April 2016, Trump asked Cohen if anything was happening in Russia.929 Cohen also918 See FS00004 (12/30/15 Text Message, Cohen to Sater); TRUMPORG_MC_000233 (1/11/16 Email, Cohen to pr_peskova@prpress.gof.ru); MDC-H-000690 (1/14/16 Email, Cohen to info@prpress.gov.ru); TRUMPORG_MC_000235 (1/16/16 Email, Cohen to pr_peskova@prpress.gov.ru).919 1/20/16 Email, Poliakova to Cohen; Call Records of Michael Cohen. (Showing a 22-minute call on January 20, 2016, between Cohen and the number Poliakova provided in her email); Cohen 9/12/18 302, at 2-3. After the call, Cohen saved Poliakova’s contact information in his Trump Organization Outlook contact list. 1/20/16 Cohen Microsoft Outlook Entry (6:22 a.m.).920 Cohen 11/20/18 302, at 5.921 Cohen 11/20/18 302, at 5-6; Cohen 11/12/18 302, at 4.922 Cohen 11/20/18 302, at 5.923 Cohen 9/12/18 302, at 5.924 FS00011 (1/21/16 Text Messages, Sater &amp; Cohen).925 Cohen 9/12/18 302, at 5; 1/25/16 Email, Sater to Cohen (attachment).926 Cohen 11/20/18 302, at 5.927 Cohen 9/12/18 302, at 6. In later congressional testimony, Cohen stated that he briefed Trump on the project approximately six times after January 2016. Hearing on Issues Related to Trump Organization Before the House Oversight and Reform Committee, 116th Cong. (Feb. 27, 2019) (CQ Cong. Transcripts, at 24) (testimony of Michael Cohen).928 Cohen 9/12/18 302, at 6.929 Cohen 9/18/18 302, at 4.Vol. 2, Page 136recalled briefing Donald Trump Jr, in the spring—a conversation that Cohen said was not “idle chit chat” because Trump Tower Moscow was potentially a $1 billion deal.930Cohen recalled that around May 2016, he again raised with candidate Trump the possibility of a trip to Russia to advance the Trump Tower Moscow project.931 At that time, Cohen had received several texts from Sater seeking to arrange dates for such a trip.932 On May 4, 2016, Sater wrote to Cohen, “I had a chat with Moscow. ASSUMING the trip does happen the question is before or after the convention. .... Obviously the premeeting trip (you only) can happen anytime you want but the 2 big guys [is] the question. I said I would confirm and revert.”933 Cohen responded, “My trip before Cleveland. Trump once he becomes the nominee after the convention.”934 On May 5, 2016, Sater followed up with a text that Cohen thought he probably read to Trump:Cohen recalled discussing the invitation to the St. Petersburg Economic Forum with candidate Trump and saying that Putin or Russian Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev might be there.936 Cohen remembered that Trump said that he would be willing to travel to Russia if Cohen could “lock and load” on the deal.937 In June 2016, Cohen decided not to attend the St. Petersburg Economic Forum because Sater had not obtained a formal invitation for Cohen from Peskov.938 Cohen said he had a quick conversation with Trump at that time but did not tell him that the project was over because he did not want Trump to complain that the deal was on-again-off-again if it were revived.939During the summer of 2016, Cohen recalled that candidate Trump publicly claimed that he had nothing to do with Russia and then shortly afterwards privately checked with Cohen about the status of the Trump Tower Moscow project, which Cohen found “interesting.”940 At some point930 Cohen 9/12/18 302, at 10.931 Cohen 9/12/18 302, at 7.932 Cohen 9/12/18 302, at 7.933 FS00015 (5/4/16 Text Message, Sater to Cohen).934 FS00015 (5/4/16 Text Message, Cohen to Sater).935 FS00016-17 (5/5/16 Text Messages, Sater &amp; Cohen).936 Cohen 9/12/18 302, at 7.937 Cohen 9/12/18 302, at 7.938 Cohen 9/12/18 302, at 7-8.939 Cohen 9/12/18 302, at 8.940 Cohen 3/19/19 302, at 2.Vol. 2, Page 137that summer, Cohen recalled having a brief conversation with Trump in which Cohen said the Trump Tower Moscow project was going nowhere because the Russian development company had not secured a piece of property for the project.941 Trump said that was “too bad,” and Cohen did not recall talking with Trump about the project after that.942 Cohen said that at no time during the campaign did Trump tell him not to pursue the project or that the project should be abandoned.943As previously discussed, see Volume II, Section II.A, supra, when questions about possible Russian support for candidate Trump emerged during the 2016 presidential campaign, Trump denied having any personal, financial, or business connection to Russia, which Cohen described as the “party line” or “message” to follow for Trump and his senior advisors.944After the election, the Trump Organization sought to formally close out certain deals in advance of the inauguration.945 Cohen recalled that Trump Tower Moscow was on the list of deals to be closed out.946 In approximately January 2017, Cohen began receiving inquiries from the media about Trump Tower Moscow, and he recalled speaking to the President-Elect when those inquiries came in.947 Cohen was concerned that truthful answers about the Trump Tower Moscow project might not be consistent with the “message” that the President-Elect had no relationship with Russia.948In an effort to “stay on message,” Cohen told a New York Times reporter that the Trump Tower Moscow deal was not feasible and had ended in January 2016.949 Cohen recalled that this was part of a “script” or talking points he had developed with President-Elect Trump and others to941 Cohen 3/19/19 302, at 2. Cohen could not recall the precise timing of this conversation, but said he thought it occurred in June or July 2016. Cohen recalled that the conversation happened at some point after candidate Trump was publicly stating that he had nothing to do with Russia. Cohen 3/19/19 302, at 2.942 Cohen 3/19/19 302, at 2.943 Cohen 3/19/19 302, at 2.944 Cohen 11/20/18 302, at 1; Cohen 9/18/18 302, at 3, 5; Cohen 9/12/18 302, at 9.945 Cohen 9/18/18 302, at 1-2; see also Rtskhiladze 4/4/18 302, at 8-9.946 Cohen 9/18/18 302, at 1-2.947 Cohen 9/18/18 302, at 3.948 Cohen 11/20/18 302, at 4.949 Cohen 9/18/18 302, at 5. The article was published on February 19, 2017, and reported that Sater and Cohen had been working on plan for a Trump Tower Moscow “as recently as the fall of 2015” but had come to a halt because of the presidential campaign. Consistent with Cohen’s intended party line message, the article stated, “Cohen said the Trump Organization had received a letter of intent for a project in Moscow from a Russian real estate developer at that time but determined that the project was not feasible.” Megan Twohey &amp; Scott Shane, A Back-Channel Plan for Ukraine and Russia, Courtesy of Trump Associates, New York Times (Feb. 19, 2017).Vol. 2, Page 138dismiss the idea of a substantial connection between Trump and Russia.950 Cohen said that he discussed the talking points with Trump but that he did not explicitly tell Trump he thought they were untrue because Trump already knew they were untrue.951 Cohen thought it was important to say the deal was done in January 2016, rather than acknowledge that talks continued in May and June 2016, because it limited the period when candidate Trump could be alleged to have a relationship with Russia to an early point in the campaign, before Trump had become the party’s presumptive nominee.952In early May 2017, Cohen received requests from Congress to provide testimony and documents in connection with congressional investigations of Russian interference in the 2016 election.1953 At that time, Cohen understood Congress’s interest in him to be focused on the allegations in the Steele reporting concerning a meeting Cohen allegedly had with Russian officials in Prague during the campaign.954 Cohen had never traveled to Prague and was not concerned about those allegations, which he believed were provably false.955 On May 18, 2017, Cohen met with the President to discuss the request from Congress, and the President instructed Cohen that he should cooperate because there was nothing there.956Cohen eventually entered into a joint defense agreement (JDA) with the President and other individuals who were part of the Russia investigation.957 In the months leading up to his congressional testimony, Cohen frequently spoke with the President’s personal counsel.958 Cohen950 Cohen 9/18/18 302, at 5-6.951 Cohen 9/18/18 302, at 6.952 Cohen 9/12/18 302, at 10.953 P-SCO-000000328 (5/9/17 Letter, HPSCI to Cohen); P-SCO-000000331 (5/12/17 Letter, SSCI to Cohen).954 Cohen 11/20/18 302, at 2-3.955 Cohen 11/20/18 302, at 2-3.956 Cohen 11/12/18 302, at 2; Cohen 11/20/19 302, at 3.957 Cohen 11/12/18 302, at 2.958 Cohen 11/12/18 302, at 2-3; Cohen 11/20/18, at 2-6. Cohen told investigators about his conversations with the President’s personal counsel after waiving any privilege of his own and after this Office advised his counsel not to provide any communications that would be covered by any other privilege, including communications protected by a joint defense or common interest privilege. As a result, most of what Cohen told us about his conversations with the President’s personal counsel concerned what Cohen had communicated to the President’s personal counsel, and not what was said in response. Cohen described certain statements made by the President’s personal counsel, however, that are set forth in this section. Cohen and his counsel were better positioned than this Office to evaluate whether any privilege protected those statements because they had knowledge of the scope of their joint defense agreement and access to privileged communications that may have provided context for evaluating the statements they shared. After interviewing Cohen about these matters, we asked the President’s personal counsel if he wished to provide information to us about his conversations with Cohen related to Cohen’s congressional testimony about Trump Tower Moscow. The President’s personal counsel declined and, through his own counsel, indicated that he could not disaggregate information he had obtained from Cohen from information he had obtained from other parties in the JDA. In view of the admonition this Office gave to Cohen’s counsel to withhold communications that could be covered by privilege, the President’s personal counsel’s uncertainty about the provenance of his own knowledge, the burden on a privilege holder to establish the elements to support a claim of privilege, and the substance of the statements themselves, we have included relevant statements Cohen provided in this report. If the statements were to be used in a context beyond this report, further analysis could be warranted.Vol. 2, Page 139said that in those conversations the President’s personal counsel would sometimes say that he had just been with the President.959 Cohen recalled that the President’s personal counsel told him the JDA was working well together and assured him that there was nothing there and if they stayed on message the investigations would come to an end soon.960 At that time, Cohen’s legal bills were being paid by the Trump Organization,961 and Cohen was told not to worry because the investigations would be over by summer or fall of 2017.962 Cohen said that the President’s personal counsel also conveyed that, as part of the JDA, Cohen was protected, which he would not be if he “went rogue.”963 Cohen recalled that the President’s personal counsel reminded him that “the President loves you” and told him that if he stayed on message, the President had his back.964In August 2017, Cohen began drafting a statement about Trump Tower Moscow to submit to Congress along with his document production.965 The final version of the statement contained several false statements about the project.966 First, although the Trump Organization continued to pursue the project until at least June 2016, the statement said, “The proposal was under consideration at the Trump Organization from September 2015 until the end of January 2016. By the end of January 2016, I determined that the proposal was not feasible for a variety of business reasons and should not be pursued further. Based on my business determinations, the Trump Organization abandoned the proposal.”967 Second, although Cohen and candidate Trump had discussed possible travel to Russia by Trump to pursue the venture, the statement said, “Despite overtures by Mr. Sater, I never considered asking Mr. Trump to travel to Russia in connection with this proposal. I told Mr. Sater that Mr. Trump would not travel to Russia unless there was a definitive agreement in place.”968 Third, although Cohen had regularly briefed Trump on the status959 Cohen 11/20/18 302, at 6.960 Cohen 11/20/18 302, at 2,4.961 Cohen 11/20/18 302, at 4.962 Cohen 9/18/18 302, at 8; Cohen 11/20/18 302, at 3-4.963 Cohen 11/20/18 302, at 4.964 Cohen 9/18/18 302, at 11; Cohen 11/20/18 302, at 2.965 P-SCO-000003680 and P-SCO-0000003687 (8/16/17 Email and Attachment, Michael Cohen’s Counsel to Cohen). Cohen said it was not his idea to write a letter to Congress about Trump Tower Moscow. Cohen 9/18/18 302, at 7.966 P-SCO-00009478 (Statement of Michael D. Cohen, Esq. (Aug. 28, 2017)).967 P-SC0-00009478 (Statement of Michael D. Cohen, Esq. (Aug. 28, 2017)).968 P-SCO-00009478 (Statement of Michael D. Cohen, Esq. (Aug. 28, 2017)). 140Vol. 2, Page 140of the project and had numerous conversations about it, the statement said, “Mr. Trump was never in contact with anyone about this proposal other than me on three occasions, including signing a non-binding letter of intent in 2015.”969 Fourth, although Cohen’s outreach to Peskov in January 2016 had resulted in a lengthy phone call with a representative from the Kremlin, the statement said that Cohen did “not recall any response to my email [to Peskov], nor any other contacts by me with Mr. Peskov or other Russian government officials about the proposal.”970Cohen’s statement was circulated in advance to, and edited by, members of the JDA.971 Before the statement was finalized, early drafts contained a sentence stating, “The building project led me to make limited contacts with Russian government officials.”972 In the final version of the statement, that line was deleted.973 Cohen thought he was told that it was a decision of the JDA to take out that sentence, and he did not push back on the deletion.974 Cohen recalled that he told the President’s personal counsel that he would not contest a decision of the JDA.975Cohen also recalled that in drafting his statement for Congress, he spoke with the President’s personal counsel about a different issue that connected candidate Trump to Russia: Cohen’s efforts to set up a meeting between Trump and Putin in New York during the 2015 United Nations General Assembly.976 In September 2015, Cohen had suggested the meeting to Trump, who told Cohen to reach out to Putin’s office about it.977 Cohen spoke and emailed with a Russian official about a possible meeting, and recalled that Trump asked him multiple times for updates on the proposed meeting with Putin.978 When Cohen called the Russian official a second time, she told him it would not follow proper protocol for Putin to meet with Trump, and Cohen relayed that969 P-SCO-00009478 (Statement of Michael D. Cohen, Esq. (Aug. 28, 2017)).970 P-SCO-00009478 (Statement of Michael D. Cohen, Esq. (Aug. 28, 2017)).971 Cohen 9/12/18 302, at 8-9. Cohen also testified in Congress that the President’s counsel reviewed and edited the statement. Hearing on Issues Related to Trump Organization before the House Oversight and Reform Committee, 116th Cong. (Feb. 27, 2019) (CQ Cong. Transcripts, at 24-25) (testimony by Michael Cohen). Because of concerns about the common interest privilege, we did not obtain or review all drafts of Cohen’s statement. Based on the drafts that were released through this Office’s filter process, it appears that the substance of the four principal false statements described above were contained in an early draft prepared by Cohen and his counsel. P-SCO-0000003680 and P-SCO-0000003687 (8/16/17 Email and Attachment, Cohen’s counsel to Cohen).972 P-SCO-0000003687 (8/16/17 Draft Statement of Michael Cohen); Cohen 11/20/18 302, at 4.973 Cohen 11/20/18 302, at 4. A different line stating that Cohen did “not recall any response to my email [to Peskov in January 2016], nor any other contacts by me with Mr. Peskov or other Russian government officials about the proposal” remained in the draft. See P-SCO-0000009478 (Statement of Michael D. Cohen, Esq. (Aug. 28, 2017)).974 Cohen 11/20/18 302, at 4.975 Cohen 11/20/18 302, at 5.976 Cohen 9/18/18 302, at 10-11.977 Cohen 9/18/18 302, at 11; Cohen 11/12/18 302, at 4.978 Cohen 9/18/18 302, at 11; Cohen 11/12/18 302, at 5.Vol. 2, Page 141message to Trump.979 Cohen anticipated he might be asked questions about the proposed Trump-Putin meeting when he testified before Congress because he had talked about the potential meeting on Sean Hannity’s radio show.980 Cohen recalled explaining to the President’s personal counsel the “whole story” of the attempt to set up a meeting between Trump and Putin and Trump’s role in it.981 Cohen recalled that he and the President’s personal counsel talked about keeping Trump out of the narrative, and the President’s personal counsel told Cohen the story was not relevant and should not be included in his statement to Congress.982Cohen said that his “agenda” in submitting the statement to Congress with false representations about the Trump Tower Moscow project was to minimize links between the project and the President, give the false impression that the project had ended before the first presidential primaries, and shut down further inquiry into Trump Tower Moscow, with the aim of limiting the ongoing Russia investigations.983 Cohen said he wanted to protect the President and be loyal to him by not contradicting anything the President had said.984 Cohen recalled he was concerned that if he told the truth about getting a response from the Kremlin or speaking to candidate Trump about travel to Russia to pursue the project, he would contradict the message that no connection existed between Trump and Russia, and he rationalized his decision to provide false testimony because the deal never happened.985 He was not concerned that the story would be contradicted by individuals who knew it was false because he was sticking to the party line adhered to by the whole group.986 Cohen wanted the support of the President and the White House, and he believed that following the party line would help put an end to the Special Counsel and congressional investigations.987Between August 18, 2017, when the statement was in an initial draft stage, and August 28, 2017, when the statement was submitted to Congress, phone records reflect that Cohen spoke with the President’s personal counsel almost daily.988 On August 27, 2017, the day before Cohen979 Cohen 11/12/18 302, at 5.980 Cohen 9/18/18 302, at 11.981 Cohen 3/19/19 302, at 2.982 Cohen 3/19/19 302, at 2; see Cohen 9/18/18 302, at 11 (recalling that he was told that if he stayed on message and kept the President out of the narrative, the President would have his back).983 Cohen 9/12/18 302, at 8; Information at 4-5, United States v. Michael Cohen, 1:18-cr-850 (S.D.N.Y. Nov. 29, 2018), Doc. 2 (Cohen Information).984 Cohen 11/20/18 302, at 4.985 Cohen 11/20/18 302, at 4; Cohen 11/12/18 302, at 2-3, 4, 6.986 Cohen 9/12/18 302, at 9.987 Cohen 9/12/18 302, at 8-9.988 Cohen 11/12/18 302, at 2-3; Cohen 11/20/18 302, at 5; Call Records of Michael Cohen (Reflecting three contacts on August 18, 2017 (24 seconds; 5 minutes 25 seconds; and 10 minutes 58 seconds); two contacts on August 19 (23 seconds and 24 minutes 26 seconds); three contacts on August 23 (8 seconds; 20 minutes 33 seconds; and 5 minutes 8 seconds); one contact on August 24 (11 minutes 59 seconds); 14 contacts on August 27 (28 seconds; 4 minutes 37 seconds; 1 minute 16 seconds; 1 minutes 35 seconds; 6 minutes 16 seconds; 1 minutes 10 seconds; 3 minutes 5 seconds; 18 minutes 55 seconds; 4 minutes 56 seconds; 11 minutes 6 seconds; 8 seconds; 3 seconds; 2 seconds; 2 seconds).Vol. 2, Page 142submitted the statement to Congress, Cohen and the President’s personal counsel had numerous contacts by phone, including calls lasting three, four, six, eleven, and eighteen minutes.989 Cohen recalled telling the President’s personal counsel, who did not have first-hand knowledge of the project, that there was more detail on Trump Tower Moscow that was not in the statement, including that there were more communications with Russia and more communications with candidate Trump than the statement reflected.990 Cohen stated that the President’s personal counsel responded that it was not necessary to elaborate or include those details because the project did not progress and that Cohen should keep his statement short and “tight” and the matter would soon come to an end.991 Cohen recalled that the President’s personal counsel said “his client” appreciated Cohen, that Cohen should stay on message and not contradict the President, that there was no need to muddy the water, and that it was time to move on.992 Cohen said he agreed because it was what he was expected to do.993 After Cohen later pleaded guilty to making false statements to Congress about the Trump Tower Moscow project, this Office sought to speak with the President’s personal counsel about these conversations with Cohen, but counsel declined, citing potential privilege concerns.994At the same time that Cohen finalized his written submission to Congress, he served as a source for a Washington Post story published on August 27, 2017, that reported in depth for the first time that the Trump Organization was “pursuing a plan to develop a massive Trump Tower in Moscow” at the same time as candidate Trump was “running for president in late 2015 and early 2016.”995 The article reported that “the project was abandoned at the end of January 2016, just before the presidential primaries began, several people familiar with the proposal said.”996 Cohen recalled that in speaking to the Post, he held to the false story that negotiations for the deal ceased in January 2016.997989 Cohen 11/20/18 302, at 5; Call Records of Michael Cohen. (Reflecting 14 contacts on August 27, 2017 (28 seconds; 4 minutes 37 seconds; 1 minute 16 seconds; 1 minutes 35 seconds; 6 minutes 16 seconds; 1 minutes 10 seconds; 3 minutes 5 seconds; 18 minutes 55 seconds; 4 minutes 56 seconds; 11 minutes 6 seconds; 8 seconds; 3 seconds; 2 seconds; 2 seconds)).990 Cohen 11/20/18 302, at 5.991 Cohen 11/20/18 302, at 5. Cohen also vaguely recalled telling the President’s personal counsel that he spoke with a woman from the Kremlin and that the President’s personal counsel responded to the effect of “so what?” because the deal never happened. Cohen 11/20/18 302, at 5.992 Cohen 11/20/18 302, at 5.993 Cohen 11/20/18 302, at 5.994 2/8/19 email, Counsel for personal counsel to the President to Special Counsel’s Office.995 Cohen 9/18/18 302, at 7; Carol D. Leonnig et al., Trump’s business sought deal on a Trump Tower in Moscow while he ran for president, Washington Post (Aug. 27, 2017).996 Carol D. Leonnig et al., Trump’s business sought deal on a Trump Tower in Moscow while he ran for president, Washington Post (Aug. 27, 2017).997 Cohen 9/18/18 302, at 7.Vol. 2, Page 143On August 28, 2017, Cohen submitted his statement about the Trump Tower Moscow project to Congress.998 Cohen did not recall talking to the President about the specifics of what the statement said or what Cohen would later testify to about Trump Tower Moscow.999 He recalled speaking to the President more generally about how he planned to stay on message in his testimony.1000 On September 19, 2017, in anticipation of his impending testimony, Cohen orchestrated the public release of his opening remarks to Congress, which criticized the allegations in the Steele material and claimed that the Trump Tower Moscow project “was terminated in January of 2016; which occurred before the lowa caucus and months before the very first primary.”1001 Cohen said the release of his opening remarks was intended to shape the narrative and let other people who might be witnesses know what Cohen was saying so they could follow the same message.1002 Cohen said his decision was meant to mirror Jared Kushner’s decision to release a statement in advance of Kushner’s congressional testimony, which the President’s personal counsel had told Cohen the President liked.1003 Cohen recalled that on September 20, 2017, after Cohen’s opening remarks had been printed by the media, the President’s personal counsel told him that the President was pleased with the Trump Tower Moscow statement that had gone out.1004On October 24 and 25, 2017, Cohen testified before Congress and repeated the false statements he had included in his written statement about Trump Tower Moscow.1005 Phone records show that Cohen spoke with the President’s personal counsel immediately after his testimony on both days.1006In January 2018, the media reported that Cohen had arranged a $130,000 payment during the campaign to prevent a woman from publicly discussing an alleged sexual encounter she had998 P-SCO-000009477 - 9478 (8/28/17 Letter and Attachment, Cohen to SSCI).999 Cohen 11/12/18 302, at 2; Cohen 9/12/18 302, at 9.1000 Cohen 9/12/18 302, at 9.1001 Cohen 9/18/18 302, at 7; see, e.g., READ: Michael Cohen’s statement to the Senate intelligence committee, CNN (Sept. 19, 2017).1002 Cohen 9/18/18 302, at 7.1003 Cohen 9/18/18 302, at 7; Cohen 11/20/18 302, at 6.1004 Cohen 11/20/18 302, at 6. Phone records show that the President’s personal counsel called Cohen on the morning of September 20, 2017, and they spoke for approximately 11 minutes, and that they had two more contacts that day, one of which lasted approximately 18 minutes. Call Records of Michael Cohen. (Reflecting three contacts on September 20, 2017, with calls lasting for 11 minutes 3 seconds; 2 seconds; and 18 minutes 38 seconds).1005 Cohen Information, at 4; Executive Session, Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, U.S. House of Representatives, Interview of Michael Cohen (Oct. 24, 2017), at 10-11, 117-119.1006 Call Records of Michael Cohen. (Reflecting two contacts on October 24, 2017 (12 minutes 8 seconds and 8 minutes 27 seconds) and three contacts on October 25, 2017 (1 second; 4 minutes 6 seconds; and 6 minutes 6 seconds)).Vol. 2, Page 144with the President before he ran for office.1007 This Office did not investigate Cohen’s campaign-period payments to women.1008 However, those events, as described here, are potentially relevant to the President’s and his personal counsel’s interactions with Cohen as a witness who later began to cooperate with the government.On February 13, 2018, Cohen released a statement to news organizations that stated, “In a private transaction in 2016, I used my own personal funds to facilitate a payment of $130,000 to [the woman]. Neither the Trump Organization nor the Trump campaign was a party to the transaction with [the woman], and neither reimbursed me for the payment, either directly or indirectly.”1009 In congressional testimony on February 27, 2019, Cohen testified that he had discussed what to say about the payment with the President and that the President had directed Cohen to say that the President “was not knowledgeable ... of [Cohen’s] actions” in making the payment.1010 On February 19, 2018, the day after the New York Times wrote a detailed story attributing the payment to Cohen and describing Cohen as the President’s “fixer,” Cohen received a text message from the President’s personal counsel that stated, “Client says thanks for what you do.”1011On April 9, 2018, FBI agents working with the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York executed search warrants on Cohen’s home, hotel room, and office.1012 That day, the President spoke to reporters and said that he had “just heard that they broke into the office of one of my personal attorneys—a good man.”1013 The President called the searches “a real disgrace” and said, “It’s an attack on our country, in a true sense. It’s an attack on what we all1007 See, e.g., Michael Rothfeld &amp; Joe Palazzolo, Trump Lawyer Arranged $130,000 Payment for Adult-Film Star’s Silence, Wall Street Journal (Jan. 12, 2018).1008 The Office was authorized to investigate Cohen’s establishment and use of Essential Consultants LLC, which Cohen created to facilitate the $130,000 payment during the campaign, based on evidence that the entity received funds from Russian-backed entities. Cohen’s use of Essential Consultants to facilitate the $130,000 payment to the woman during the campaign was part of the Office’s referral of certain Cohen-related matters to the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York.1009 See, e.g., Mark Berman, Longtime Trump attorney says he made $130,000 payment to Stormy Daniels with his money, Washington Post (Feb. 14, 2018).1010 Hearing on Issues Related to Trump Organization Before the House Oversight and Reform Committee, 116th Cong. (Feb. 27, 2019) (CQ Cong. Transcripts, at 147-148) (testimony of Michael Cohen). Toll records show that Cohen was connected to a White House phone number for approximately five minutes on January 19, 2018, and for approximately seven minutes on January 30, 2018, and that Cohen called Melania Trump’s cell phone several times between January 26, 2018, and January 30, 2018. Call Records of Michael Cohen.1011 2/19/18 Text Message, President’s personal counsel to Cohen; see Jim Rutenberg et al., Tools of Trump’s Fixer: Payouts, Intimidation and the Tabloids, New York Times (Feb. 18, 2018).1012 Gov’t Opp. to Def. Mot. for Temp. Restraining Order, In the Matter of Search Warrants Executed on April 9, 2018, 18-mj-3161 (S.D.N.Y. Apr. 13, 2018), Doc. 1 (“On April 9, 2018, agents from the New York field office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation ... executed search warrants for Michael Cohen’s residence, hotel room, office, safety deposit box, and electronic devices.”).1013 Remarks by President Trump Before Meeting with Senior Military Leadership, White House (Apr. 9, 2018).Vol. 2, Page 145stand for.”1014 Cohen said that after the searches he was concerned that he was “an open book,” that he did not want issues arising from the payments to women to “come out,” and that his false statements to Congress were “a big concern.”1015A few days after the searches, the President called Cohen.1016 According to Cohen, the President said he wanted to “check in” and asked if Cohen was okay, and the President encouraged Cohen to “hang in there” and “stay strong.”1017 Cohen also recalled that following the searches he heard from individuals who were in touch with the President and relayed to Cohen the President’s support for him.1018 Cohen recalled that ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■, a friend of the President’s, reached out to say that he was with “the Boss” in Mar-a-Lago and the President had said “he loves you” and not to worry.1019 Cohen recalled that ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ for the Trump Organization, told him, “the boss loves you.”1020 And Cohen said that ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■, a friend of the President’s, told him, “everyone knows the boss has your back.”1021On or about April 17, 2018, Cohen began speaking with an attorney, Robert Costello, who had a close relationship with Rudolph Giuliani, one of the President’s personal lawyers.1022 Costello told Cohen that he had a “back channel of communication” to Giuliani, and that Giuliani had said the “channel” was “crucial” and “must be maintained.”1023 On April 20, 2018, the New York Times published an article about the President’s relationship with and treatment of Cohen1024 The President responded with a series of tweets predicting that Cohen would not “flip”:1014 Remarks by President Trump Before Meeting with Senior Military Leadership, White House. (Apr. 9, 2018).1015 Cohen, 10/17/18 302, at 11.1016 Cohen 3/19/19 302, at 4.1017 Cohen 3/19/19 302, at 4.1018 Cohen 9/12/18 302, at 11.1019 Cohen 9/12/18 302, at 11.1020 Cohen 9/12/18 302, at 11.1021 Cohen 9/12/18 302, at 11.1022 4/17/18 Email, Citron to Cohen; 4/19/18 Email, Costello to Cohen; MC-SCO-001 (7/7/18 redacted billing statement from Davidoff, Hutcher &amp; Citron to Cohen).1023 4/21/18 Email, Costello to Cohen.1024 See Maggie Haberman et al., Michael Cohen Has Said He Would Take a Bullet for Trump. Maybe Not Anymore., New York Times (Apr. 20, 2018).Vol. 2, Page 146In an email that day to Cohen, Costello wrote that he had spoken with Giuliani.1026 Costello told Cohen the conversation was “Very Very Positive[.] You are ‘loved&amp;apos...they are in our corner....Sleep well tonight[], you have friends in high places.”1027Cohen said that following these messages he believed he had the support of the White House if he continued to toe the party line, and he determined to stay on message and be part of the team.1028 At the time, Cohen’s understood that his legal fees were still being paid by the Trump Organization, which he said was important to him.1029 Cohen believed he needed the power of the President to take care of him, so he needed to defend the President and stay on message.1030Cohen also recalled speaking with the President’s personal counsel about pardons after the searches of his home and office had occurred, at a time when the media had reported that pardon discussions were occurring at the White House.1031 Cohen told the President’s personal counsel he had been a loyal lawyer and servant, and he said that after the searches he was in an uncomfortable position and wanted to know what was in it for him.1032 According to Cohen, the President’s personal counsel responded that Cohen should stay on message, that the investigation was a witch hunt, and that everything would be fine.1033 Cohen understood based on this conversation and previous conversations about pardons with the President’s personal counsel that as long as he stayed on message, he would be taken care of by the President, either through a pardon or through the investigation being shut down.10341025 @realDonaldTrump 4/21/18 (9:10 a.m. ET) Tweets.1026 4/21/18 Email, Costello to Cohen.1027 4/21/18 Email, Costello to Cohen. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1028 Cohen 9/12/18 302, at 11.1029 Cohen 9/12/18 302, at 10.1030 Cohen 9/12/18 302, at 10.1031 Cohen 11/20/18 302, at 7. At a White House press briefing on April 23, 2018, in response to a question about whether the White House had “close[d] the door one way or the other on the President pardoning Michael Cohen,” Sanders said, “It’s hard to close the door on something that hasn’t taken place. I don’t like to discuss or comment on hypothetical situations that may or may not ever happen. I would refer you to personal attorneys to comment on anything specific regarding that case, but we don’t have anything at this point.” Sarah Sanders, White House Daily Briefing, C-SPAN (Apr. 23, 2018).1032 Cohen 11/20/18 302, at 7; Cohen 3/19/19 302, at 3.1033 Cohen 3/19/19 302, at 3.1034 Cohen 3/19/19 302, at 3-4. 147Vol. 2, Page 147On April 24, 2018, the President responded to a reporter’s inquiry whether he would consider a pardon for Cohen with, “Stupid question.”1035 On June 8, 2018, the President said he “hadn’t even thought about” pardons for Manafort or Cohen, and continued, “It’s far too early to be thinking about that. They haven’t been convicted of anything. There’s nothing to pardon.”1036 And on June 15, 2018, the President expressed sympathy for Cohen, Manafort, and Flynn in a press interview and said, “I feel badly about a lot of them, because I think a lot of it is very unfair.”1037On July 2, 2018, ABC News reported based on an “exclusive” interview with Cohen that Cohen “strongly signaled his willingness to cooperate with special counsel Robert Mueller and federal prosecutors in the Southern District of New York—even if that puts President Trump in jeopardy.”1038 That week, the media reported that Cohen had added an attorney to his legal team who previously had worked as a legal advisor to President Bill Clinton.1039Beginning on July 20, 2018, the media reported on the existence of a recording Cohen had made of a conversation he had with candidate Trump about a payment made to a second woman who said she had had an affair with Trump.1040 On July 21, 2018, the President responded: “Inconceivable that the government would break into a lawyer’s office (early in the morning)—almost unheard of. Even more inconceivable that a lawyer would tape a client—totally unheard of &amp; perhaps illegal. The good news is that your favorite President did nothing wrong!”1041 On July 27, 2018, after the media reported that Cohen was willing to inform investigators that Donald Trump Jr. told his father about the June 9, 2016 meeting to get “dirt” on Hillary Clinton,1042 the President tweeted: “[S]o the Fake News doesn’t waste my time with dumb questions, NO, I did NOT know of the meeting with my son, Don jr. Sounds to me like someone is trying to make up1035 Remarks by President Trump and President Macron of France Before Restricted Bilateral Meeting, The White House (Apr. 24, 2018).1036 President Donald Trump Holds Media Availability Before Departing for the G-7 Summit, CQ Newsmaker Transcripts (June 8, 2018).1037 Remarks by President Trump in Press Gaggle, The White House (June 15, 2018).1038 EXCLUSIVE: Michael Cohen says family and country, not President Trump, is his first loyalty&amp;apos, ABC (July 2, 2018). Cohen said in the interview, “To be crystal clear, my wife, my daughter and my son, and this country have my first loyalty.”1039 See e.g., Darren Samuelsohn, Michael Cohen hires Clinton scandal veteran Lanny Davis, Politico (July 5, 2018).1040 See, e.g., Matt Apuzzo et al., Michael Cohen Secretly Taped Trump Discussing Payment to Playboy Model, New York Times (July 20, 2018).1041 @realDonaldTrump 7/21/18 (8:10 a.m. ET) Tweet.1042 See, e.g., Jim Sciutto, Cuomo Prime Time Transcript, CNN (July 26, 2018).Vol. 2, Page 148stories in order to get himself out of an unrelated jam (Taxi cabs maybe?). He even retained Bill and Crooked Hillary’s lawyer. Gee, I wonder if they helped him make the choice!”1043On August 21, 2018, Cohen pleaded guilty in the Southern District of New York to eight felony charges, including two counts of campaign-finance violations based on the payments he had made during the final weeks of the campaign to women who said they had affairs with the President.1044 During the plea hearing, Cohen stated that he had worked “at the direction of” the candidate in making those payments.1045 The next day, the President contrasted Cohen’s cooperation with Manafort’s refusal to cooperate, tweeting, “I feel very badly for Paul Manafort and his wonderful family. ‘Justice’ took a 12 year old tax case, among other things, applied tremendous pressure on him and, unlike Michael Cohen, he refused to ‘break’—make up stories in order to get a ‘deal.’ Such respect for a brave man!”1046On September 17, 2018, this Office submitted written questions to the President that included questions about the Trump Tower Moscow project and attached Cohen’s written statement to Congress and the Letter of Intent signed by the President.1047 Among other issues, the questions asked the President to describe the timing and substance of discussions he had with Cohen about the project, whether they discussed a potential trip to Russia, and whether the President “at any time direct[ed] or suggest[ed] that discussions about the Trump Moscow project should cease,” or whether the President was “informed at any time that the project had been abandoned.”1048On November 20, 2018, the President submitted written responses that did not answer those questions about Trump Tower Moscow directly and did not provide any information about the timing of the candidate’s discussions with Cohen about the project or whether he participated in any discussions about the project being abandoned or no longer pursued.1049 Instead, the President’s answers stated in relevant part:1043 @realDonaldTrump 7/27/18 (7:26 a.m. ET) Tweet; @realDonald Trump 7/27/18 (7:38 a.m. ET) Tweet; @realDonaldTrump 7/27/18 (7:56 a.m. ET) Tweet. At the time of these tweets, the press had reported that Cohen’s financial interests in taxi cab medallions were being scrutinized by investigators. See, e.g., Matt Apuzzo et al., Michael Cohen Secretly Taped Trump Discussing Payment to Playboy Model, New York Times (July 20, 2018).1044 Cohen Information.1045 Cohen 8/21/18 Transcript, at 23.1046 @realDonaldTrump 8/22/18 (9:21 a.m. ET) Tweet.1047 9/17/18 Letter, Special Counsel’s Office to President’s Personal Counsel (attaching written questions for the President, with attachments).1048 9/17/18 Letter, Special Counsel’s Office to President’s Personal Counsel (attaching written questions for the President), Question III, Parts (a) through (g).1049 Written Responses of Donald J. Trump (Nov. 20, 2018).Vol. 2, Page 149On November 29, 2018, Cohen pleaded guilty to making false statements to Congress based on his statements about the Trump Tower Moscow project.1051 In a plea agreement with this Office, Cohen agreed to “provide truthful information regarding any and all matters as to which this Office deems relevant.”l052 Later on November 29, after Cohen’s guilty plea had become public, the President spoke to reporters about the Trump Tower Moscow project, saying:The President also said that Cohen was “a weak person. And by being weak, unlike other people that you watch—he is a weak person. And what he’s trying to do is get a reduced sentence. So he’s lying about a project that everybody knew about.”1054 The President also brought up Cohen’s written submission to Congress regarding the Trump Tower Moscow project: “So here’s the story: Go back and look at the paper that Michael Cohen wrote before he testified in the House and/or Senate. It talked about his position.”1055 The President added, “Even if [Cohen] was right, it doesn’t matter because I was allowed to do whatever I wanted during the campaign.”1056In light of the President’s public statements following Cohen’s guilty plea that he “decided not to do the project,” this Office again sought information from the President about whether he participated in any discussions about the project being abandoned or no longer pursued, including when he “decided not to do the project,” who he spoke to about that decision, and what motivated1050 Written Responses of Donald J. Trump (Nov. 20, 2018), at 15 (Response to Question III, Parts (a) through (g))1051 Cohen Information; Cohen 8/21/18 Transcript.1052 Plea Agreement at 4, United States v. Michael Cohen, 1:18-cr-850 (S.D.N.Y. Nov. 29, 2018).1053 President Trump Departure Remarks, C-SPAN (Nov. 29, 2018). In contrast to the President’s remarks following Cohen’s guilty plea, Cohen’s August 28, 2017 statement to Congress stated that Cohen, not the President, “decided to abandon the proposal” in late January 2016; that Cohen “did not ask or brief Mr. Trump ... before I made the decision to terminate further work on the proposal"; and that the decision to abandon the proposal was “unrelated” to the Campaign. P-SCO-000009477 (Statement of Michael D. Cohen, Esq. (Aug. 28, 2017)).1054 President Trump Departure Remarks, C-SPAN (Nov. 29, 2018).1055 President Trump Departure Remarks, C-SPAN (Nov. 29, 2018).1056 President Trump Departure Remarks, C-SPAN (Nov. 29, 2018). 150Vol. 2, Page 150the decision. 1057 The Office also again asked for the timing of the President’s discussions with Cohen about Trump Tower Moscow and asked him to specify “what period of the campaign” he was involved in discussions concerning the project.1058 In response, the President’s personal counsel declined to provide additional information from the President and stated that “the President has fully answered the questions at issue.”1059In the weeks following Cohen’s plea and agreement to provide assistance to this Office, the President repeatedly implied that Cohen’s family members were guilty of crimes. On December 3, 2018, after Cohen had filed his sentencing memorandum, the President tweeted, “‘Michael Cohen asks judge for no Prison Time.’ You mean he can do all of the TERRIBLE, unrelated to Trump, things having to do with fraud, big loans, Taxis, etc., and not serve a long prison term? He makes up stories to get a GREAT &amp; ALREADY reduced deal for himself, and get his wife and father-in-law (who has the money?) off Scott Free. He lied for this outcome and should, in my opinion, serve a full and complete sentence.”1060 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■1061On December 12, 2018, Cohen was sentenced to three years of imprisonment.1062 The next day, the President sent a series of tweets that said:On December 16, 2018, the President tweeted, “Remember, Michael Cohen only became a ‘Rat’ after the FBI did something which was absolutely unthinkable &amp; unheard of until the Witch Hunt was illegally started. They BROKE INTO AN ATTORNEY’s OFFICE! Why didn’t they break into the DNC to get the Server, or Crooked’s office?”1064In January 2019, after the media reported that Cohen would provide public testimony in a congressional hearing, the President made additional public comments suggesting that Cohen’s1057 1/23/19 Letter, Special Counsel’s Office to President’s Personal Counsel.1058 1/23/19 Letter, Special Counsel’s Office to President’s Personal Counsel.1059 2/6/19 Letter, President’s Personal Counsel to Special Counsel’s Office.1060 @realDonaldTrump 12/3/18 (10:24 a.m. ET and 10:29 a.m. ET) Tweets (emphasis added).1061 @realDonald Trump 12/3/18 (10:48 a.m. ET) Tweet.1062 Cohen 12/12/18 Transcript.1063 @realDonaldTrump 12/13/18 (8:17 a.m. ET, 8:25 a.m. ET, and 8:39 a.m. ET) Tweets (emphasis added)1064 @realDonaldTrump 12/16/18 (9:39 a.m. ET) Tweet.Vol. 2, Page 151family members had committed crimes. In an interview on Fox on January 12, 2019, the President was asked whether he was worried about Cohen’s testimony and responded:On January 18, 2019, the President tweeted, “Kevin Corke, @FoxNews ‘Don’t forget, Michael Cohen has already been convicted of perjury and fraud, and as recently as this week, the Wall Street Journal has suggested that he may have stolen tens of thousands of dollars. …’ Lying to reduce his jail time! Watch father-in-law!”1066On January 23, 2019, Cohen postponed his congressional testimony, citing threats against his family.1067 The next day, the President tweeted, “So interesting that bad lawyer Michael Cohen, who sadly will not be testifying before Congress, is using the lawyer of Crooked Hillary Clinton to represent him-Gee, how did that happen?”1068Also in January 2019, Giuliani gave press interviews that appeared to confirm Cohen’s account that the Trump Organization pursued the Trump Tower Moscow project well past January 2016. Giuliani stated that “it’s our understanding that [discussions about the Trump Moscow project] went on throughout 2016. Weren’t a lot of them, but there were conversations. Can’t be sure of the exact date. But the president can remember having conversations with him about it. ... The president also remembers—yeah, probably up—could be up to as far as October, November.”1069 In an interview with the New York Times, Giuliani quoted the President as saying that the discussions regarding the Trump Moscow project were “going on from the day I announced to the day I won.”1070 On January 21, 2019, Giuliani issued a statement that said: “My recent statements about discussions during the 2016 campaign between Michael Cohen and candidate Donald Trump about a potential Trump Moscow ‘project’ were hypothetical and not based on conversations I had with the president.”10711065 Jeanine Pirro Interview with President Trump, Fox News (Jan. 12, 2019) (emphasis added).1066 @realDonald Trump 1/18/19 (10:02 a.m. ET) Tweet (emphasis added).1067 Statement by Lanny Davis, Cohen’s personal counsel (Jan. 23, 2019).1068 @realDonaldTrump 1/24/19 (7:48 a.m. ET) Tweet.1069 Meet the Press Interview with Rudy Giuliani, NBC (Jan. 20, 2019).1070 Mark Mazzetti et al., Moscow Skyscraper Talks Continued Through “the Day I Won,” Trump Is Said to Acknowledge, New York Times (Jan. 20, 2019).1071 Maggie Haberman, Giuliani Says His Moscow Trump Tower Comments Were “Hypothetical", New York Times (Jan. 21, 2019). In a letter to this Office, the President’s counsel stated that Giuliani’s public comments “were not intended to suggest nor did they reflect knowledge of the existence or timing of conversations beyond that contained in the President’s [written responses to the Special Counsel’s Office].” 2/6/19 Letter, President’s Personal Counsel to Special Counsel’s Office.Vol. 2, Page 152In analyzing the President’s conduct related to Cohen, the following evidence is relevant to the elements of obstruction of justice.a. Obstructive act. We gathered evidence of the President’s conduct related to Cohen on two issues: (i) whether the President or others aided or participated in Cohen’s false statements to Congress, and (ii) whether the President took actions that would have the natural tendency to prevent Cohen from providing truthful information to the government.i. First, with regard to Cohen’s false statements to Congress, while there is evidence, described below, that the President knew Cohen provided false testimony to Congress about the Trump Tower Moscow project, the evidence available to us does not establish that the President directed or aided Cohen’s false testimony. 1Cohen said that his statements to Congress followed a “party line” that developed within the campaign to align with the President’s public statements distancing the President from Russia. Cohen also recalled that, in speaking with the President in advance of testifying, he made it clear that he would stay on message—which Cohen believed they both understood would require false testimony. But Cohen said that he and the President did not explicitly discuss whether Cohen’s testimony about the Trump Tower Moscow project would be or was false, and the President did not direct him to provide false testimony. Cohen also said he did not tell the President about the specifics of his planned testimony. During the time when his statement to Congress was being drafted and circulated to members of the JDA, Cohen did not speak directly to the President about the statement, but rather communicated with the President’s personal counsel—as corroborated by phone records showing extensive communications between Cohen and the President’s personal counsel before Cohen submitted his statement and when he testified before Congress.Cohen recalled that in his discussions with the President’s personal counsel on August 27, 2017—the day before Cohen’s statement was submitted to Congress—Cohen said that there were more communications with Russia and more communications with candidate Trump than the statement reflected. Cohen recalled expressing some concern at that time. According to Cohen, the President’s personal counsel—who did not have first-hand knowledge of the project—responded by saying that there was no need to muddy the water, that it was unnecessary to include those details because the project did not take place, and that Cohen should keep his statement short and tight, not elaborate, stay on message, and not contradict the President. Cohen’s recollection of the content of those conversations is consistent with direction about the substance of Cohen’s draft statement that appeared to come from members of the JDA. For example, Cohen omitted any reference to his outreach to Russian government officials to set up a meeting between Trump and Putin during the United Nations General Assembly, and Cohen believed it was a decision ofVol. 2, Page 153the JDA to delete the sentence, “The building project led me to make limited contacts with Russian government officials.”The President’s personal counsel declined to provide us with his account of his conversations with Cohen, and there is no evidence available to us that indicates that the President was aware of the information Cohen provided to the President’s personal counsel. The President’s conversations with his personal counsel were presumptively protected by attorney-client privilege, and we did not seek to obtain the contents of any such communications. The absence of evidence about the President and his counsel’s conversations about the drafting of Cohen’s statement precludes us from assessing what, if any, role the President played.ii. Second, we considered whether the President took actions that would have the natural tendency to prevent Cohen from providing truthful information to criminal investigators or to Congress.Before Cohen began to cooperate with the government, the President publicly and privately urged Cohen to stay on message and not “flip.” Cohen recalled the President’s personal counsel telling him that he would be protected so long as he did not go “rogue.” In the days and weeks that followed the April 2018 searches of Cohen’s home and office, the President told reporters that Cohen was a “good man” and said he was “a fine person with a wonderful family ... who I have always liked &amp; respected.” Privately, the President told Cohen to “hang in there” and “stay strong.” People who were close to both Cohen and the President passed messages to Cohen that “the President loves you,” “the boss loves you,” and “everyone knows the boss has your back.” Through the President’s personal counsel, the President also had previously told Cohen “thanks for what you do” after Cohen provided information to the media about payments to women that, according to Cohen, both Cohen and the President knew was false. At that time, the Trump Organization continued to pay Cohen’s legal fees, which was important to Cohen. Cohen also recalled discussing the possibility of a pardon with the President’s personal counsel, who told him to stay on message and everything would be fine. The President indicated in his public statements that a pardon had not been ruled out, and also stated publicly that “[m]ost people will flip if the Government lets them out of trouble” but that he “d[idn’t] see Michael doing that.”After it was reported that Cohen intended to cooperate with the government, however, the President accused Cohen of “mak[ing] up stories in order to get himself out of an unrelated jam (Taxi cabs maybe?),” called Cohen a “rat,” and on multiple occasions publicly suggested that Cohen’s family members had committed crimes. The evidence concerning this sequence of events could support an inference that the President used inducements in the form of positive messages in an effort to get Cohen not to cooperate, and then turned to attacks and intimidation to deter the provision of information or undermine Cohen’s credibility once Cohen began cooperating.b. Nexus to an official proceeding. The President’s relevant conduct towards Cohen occurred when the President knew the Special Counsel’s Office, Congress, and the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York were investigating Cohen’s conduct. The President acknowledged through his public statements and tweets that Cohen potentially could cooperate with the government investigations.Vol. 2, Page 154c. Intent. In analyzing the President’s intent in his actions towards Cohen as a potential witness, there is evidence that could support the inference that the President intended to discourage Cohen from cooperating with the government because Cohen’s information would shed adverse light on the President’s campaign-period conduct and statements.i. Cohen’s false congressional testimony about the Trump Tower Moscow project was designed to minimize connections between the President and Russia and to help limit the congressional and DOJ Russia investigations—a goal that was in the President’s interest, as reflected by the President’s own statements. During and after the campaign, the President made repeated statements that he had “no business” in Russia and said that there were “no deals that could happen in Russia, because we&amp;aposve stayed away.” As Cohen knew, and as he recalled communicating to the President during the campaign, Cohen’s pursuit of the Trump Tower Moscow project cast doubt on the accuracy or completeness of these statements.In connection with his guilty plea, Cohen admitted that he had multiple conversations with candidate Trump to give him status updates about the Trump Tower Moscow project, that the conversations continued through at least June 2016, and that he discussed with Trump possible travel to Russia to pursue the project. The conversations were not off-hand, according to Cohen, because the project had the potential to be so lucrative. In addition, text messages to and from Cohen and other records further establish that Cohen’s efforts to advance the project did not end in January 2016 and that in May and June 2016, Cohen was considering the timing for possible trips to Russia by him and Trump in connection with the project.The evidence could support an inference that the President was aware of these facts at the time of Cohen’s false statements to Congress. Cohen discussed the project with the President in early 2017 following media inquiries. Cohen recalled that on September 20, 2017, the day after he released to the public his opening remarks to Congress—which said the project “was terminated in January of 2016”—the President’s personal counsel told him the President was pleased with what Cohen had said about Trump Tower Moscow. And after Cohen’s guilty plea, the President told reporters that he had ultimately decided not to do the project, which supports the inference that he remained aware of his own involvement in the project and the period during the Campaign in which the project was being pursued.ii. The President’s public remarks following Cohen’s guilty plea also suggest that the President may have been concerned about what Cohen told investigators about the Trump Tower Moscow project. At the time the President submitted written answers to questions from this Office about the project and other subjects, the media had reported that Cohen was cooperating with the government but Cohen had not yet pleaded guilty to making false statements to Congress. Accordingly, it was not publicly known what information about the project Cohen had provided to the government. In his written answers, the President did not provide details about the timing and substance of his discussions with Cohen about the project and gave no indication that he had decided to no longer pursue the project. Yet after Cohen pleaded guilty, the President publicly stated that he had personally made the decision to abandon the project. The President then declined to clarify the seeming discrepancy to our Office or answer additional questions. The content and timing of the President’s provision of information about his knowledge and actions regarding the Trump Tower Moscow project is evidence that the President may have been concerned about the information that Cohen could provide as a witness.Vol. 2, Page 155iii. The President’s concern about Cohen cooperating may have been directed at the Southern District of New York investigation into other aspects of the President’s dealings with Cohen rather than an investigation of Trump Tower Moscow. There also is some evidence that the President’s concern about Cohen cooperating was based on the President’s stated belief that Cohen would provide false testimony against the President in an attempt to obtain a lesser sentence for his unrelated criminal conduct. The President tweeted that Manafort, unlike Cohen, refused to “break” and “make up stories in order to get a ‘deal.’” And after Cohen pleaded guilty to making false statements to Congress, the President said, “what [Cohen]’s trying to do is get a reduced sentence. So he’s lying about a project that everybody knew about.” But the President also appeared to defend the underlying conduct, saying, “Even if [Cohen] was right, it doesn’t matter because I was allowed to do whatever I wanted during the campaign.” As described above, there is evidence that the President knew that Cohen had made false statements about the Trump Tower Moscow project and that Cohen did so to protect the President and minimize the President’s connections to Russia during the campaign.iv. Finally, the President’s statements insinuating that members of Cohen’s family committed crimes after Cohen began cooperating with the government could be viewed as an effort to retaliate against Cohen and chill further testimony adverse to the President by Cohen or others. It is possible that the President believes, as reflected in his tweets, that Cohen “ma[d]e[] up stories” in order to get a deal for himself and “get his wife and father-in-law ... off Scott Free.” It also is possible that the President’s mention of Cohen’s wife and father-in-law were not intended to affect Cohen as a witness but rather were part of a public-relations strategy aimed at discrediting Cohen and deflecting attention away from the President on Cohen-related matters. But the President’s suggestion that Cohen’s family members committed crimes happened more than once, including just before Cohen was sentenced (at the same time as the President stated that Cohen “should, in my opinion, serve a full and complete sentence”) and again just before Cohen was scheduled to testify before Congress. The timing of the statements supports an inference that they were intended at least in part to discourage Cohen from further cooperation.Although this report does not contain a traditional prosecution decision or declination decision, the evidence supports several general conclusions relevant to analysis of the facts concerning the President’s course of conduct.1. Three features of this case render it atypical compared to the heartland obstruction-of-justice prosecutions brought by the Department of Justice.First, the conduct involved actions by the President. Some of the conduct did not implicate the President’s constitutional authority and raises garden-variety obstruction-of-justice issues. Other events we investigated, however, drew upon the President’s Article II authority, which raised constitutional issues that we address in Volume II, Section III.B, infra. A factual analysis of that conduct would have to take into account both that the President’s acts were facially lawful and that his position as head of the Executive Branch provides him with unique and powerful means of influencing official proceedings, subordinate officers, and potential witnesses.Vol. 2, Page 156Second, many obstruction cases involve the attempted or actual cover-up of an underlying crime. Personal criminal conduct can furnish strong evidence that the individual had an improper obstructive purpose, see, e.g., United States v. Willoughby, 860 F.2d 15, 24 (2d Cir. 1988), or that he contemplated an effect on an official proceeding, see, e.g., United States v. Binday, 804 F.3d 558, 591 (2d Cir. 2015). But proof of such a crime is not an element of an obstruction offense. See United States v. Greer, 872 F.3d 790, 798 (6th Cir. 2017) (stating, in applying the obstruction sentencing guideline, that “obstruction of a criminal investigation is punishable even if the prosecution is ultimately unsuccessful or even if the investigation ultimately reveals no underlying crime”). Obstruction of justice can be motivated by a desire to protect non-criminal personal interests, to protect against investigations where underlying criminal liability falls into a gray area, or to avoid personal embarrassment. The injury to the integrity of the justice system is the same regardless of whether a person committed an underlying wrong.In this investigation, the evidence does not establish that the President was involved in an underlying crime related to Russian election interference. But the evidence does point to a range of other possible personal motives animating the President’s conduct. These include concerns that continued investigation would call into question the legitimacy of his election and potential uncertainty about whether certain events—such as advance notice of WikiLeaks’s release of hacked information or the June 9, 2016 meeting between senior campaign officials and Russians—could be seen as criminal activity by the President, his campaign, or his family.Third, many of the President’s acts directed at witnesses, including discouragement of cooperation with the government and suggestions of possible future pardons, occurred in public view. While it may be more difficult to establish that public-facing acts were motivated by a corrupt intent, the President’s power to influence actions, persons, and events is enhanced by his unique ability to attract attention through use of mass communications. And no principle of law excludes public acts from the scope of obstruction statutes. If the likely effect of the acts is to intimidate witnesses or alter their testimony, the justice system’s integrity is equally threatened.2. Although the events we investigated involved discrete acts—e.g., the President’s statement to Comey about the Flynn investigation, his termination of Comey, and his efforts to remove the Special Counsel—it is important to view the President’s pattern of conduct as a whole. That pattern sheds light on the nature of the President’s acts and the inferences that can be drawn about his intent.a. Our investigation found multiple acts by the President that were capable of exerting undue influence over law enforcement investigations, including the Russian-interference and obstruction investigations. The incidents were often carried out through one-on-one meetings in which the President sought to use his official power outside of usual channels. These actions ranged from efforts to remove the Special Counsel and to reverse the effect of the Attorney General’s recusal; to the attempted use of official power to limit the scope of the investigation; to direct and indirect contacts with witnesses with the potential to influence their testimony. Viewing the acts collectively can help to illuminate their significance.1 For example, the President’s direction to McGahn to have the Special Counsel removed was followed almost immediately by his direction to Lewandowski to tell the Attorney General to limit the scope of the Russia investigation to prospective election-interference only—a temporal connection that suggests that both acts were taken with a related purpose with respect to the investigation.Vol. 2, Page 157The President’s efforts to influence the investigation were mostly unsuccessful, but that is largely because the persons who surrounded the President declined to carry out orders or accede to his requests. Comey did not end the investigation of Flynn, which ultimately resulted in Flynn’s prosecution and conviction for lying to the FBI. McGahn did not tell the Acting Attorney General that the Special Counsel must be removed, but was instead prepared to resign over the President’s order. Lewandowski and Dearborn did not deliver the President’s message to Sessions that he should confine the Russia investigation to future election meddling only. And McGahn refused to recede from his recollections about events surrounding the President’s direction to have the Special Counsel removed, despite the President’s multiple demands that he do so. Consistent with that pattern, the evidence we obtained would not support potential obstruction charges against the President’s aides and associates beyond those already filed.b. In considering the full scope of the conduct we investigated, the President’s actions can be divided into two distinct phases reflecting a possible shift in the President’s motives. In the first phase, before the President fired Comey, the President had been assured that the FBI had not opened an investigation of him personally. The President deemed it critically important to make public that he was not under investigation, and he included that information in his termination letter to Comey after other efforts to have that information disclosed were unsuccessful.Soon after he fired Comey, however, the President became aware that investigators were conducting an obstruction-of-justice inquiry into his own conduct. That awareness marked a significant change in the President’s conduct and the start of a second phase of action. The President launched public attacks on the investigation and individuals involved in it who could possess evidence adverse to the President, while in private, the President engaged in a series of targeted efforts to control the investigation. For instance, the President attempted to remove the Special Counsel; he sought to have Attorney General Sessions unrecuse himself and limit the investigation; he sought to prevent public disclosure of information about the June 9, 2016 meeting between Russians and campaign officials; and he used public forums to attack potential witnesses who might offer adverse information and to praise witnesses who declined to cooperate with the government. Judgments about the nature of the President’s motives during each phase would be informed by the totality of the evidence.Vol. 2, Page 158The President’s personal counsel has written to this Office to advance statutory and constitutional defenses to the potential application of the obstruction-of-justice statutes to the President’s conduct.1072 As a statutory matter, the President’s counsel has argued that a core obstruction-of-justice statute, 18 U.S.C. § 1512(c)(2), does not cover the President’s actions.1073 As a constitutional matter, the President’s counsel argued that the President cannot obstruct justice by exercising his constitutional authority to close Department of Justice investigations or terminate the FBI Director.1074 Under that view, any statute that restricts the President’s exercise of those powers would impermissibly intrude on the President’s constitutional role. The President’s counsel has conceded that the President may be subject to criminal laws that do not directly involve exercises of his Article II authority, such as laws prohibiting bribing witnesses or suborning perjury.1075 But counsel has made a categorical argument that “the President’s exercise of his constitutional authority here to terminate an FBI Director and to close investigations cannot constitutionally constitute obstruction of justice.”1076In analyzing counsel’s statutory arguments, we concluded that the President’s proposed interpretation of Section 1512(c)(2) is contrary to the litigating position of the Department of Justice and is not supported by principles of statutory construction.As for the constitutional arguments, we recognized that the Department of Justice and the courts have not definitively resolved these constitutional issues. We therefore analyzed the President’s position through the framework of Supreme Court precedent addressing the separation of powers. Under that framework, we concluded, Article II of the Constitution does not categorically and permanently immunize the President from potential liability for the conduct that we investigated. Rather, our analysis led us to conclude that the obstruction-of-justice statutes can1072 6/23/17 Letter, President’s Personal Counsel to Special Counsel’s Office; see also 1/29/18 Letter, President’s Personal Counsel to Special Counsel’s Office; 2/6/18 Letter, President’s Personal Counsel to Special Counsel’s Office; 8/8/18 Letter, President’s Personal Counsel to Special Counsel’s Office, at 4.1073 2/6/18 Letter, President’s Personal Counsel to Special Counsel’s Office, at 2-9. Counsel has also noted that other potentially applicable obstruction statutes, such as 18 U.S.C. § 1505, protect only pending proceedings. 6/23/17 Letter, President’s Personal Counsel to Special Counsel’s Office, at 7-8. Section 1512(c)(2) is not limited to pending proceedings, but also applies to future proceedings that the person contemplated. See Volume II, Section III.A, supra.1074 6/23/17 Letter, President’s Personal Counsel to Special Counsel’s Office, at 1 (“[T]he President cannot obstruct ... by simply exercising these inherent Constitutional powers.”).1075 6/23/17 Letter, President’s Personal Counsel to Special Counsel’s Office, at 2 n. 1.1076 6/23/17 Letter, President’s Personal Counsel to Special Counsel’s Office, at 2 n.1 (dashes omitted); see also 8/8/18 Letter, President’s Personal Counsel to Special Counsel’s Office, at 4 (“[T]he obstruction-of-justice statutes cannot be read so expansively as to create potential liability based on facially lawful acts undertaken by the President in furtherance of his core Article II discretionary authority to remove principal officers or carry out the prosecution function.”).Vol. 2, Page 159validly prohibit a President’s corrupt efforts to use his official powers to curtail, end, or interfere with an investigation.The obstruction-of-justice statute most readily applicable to our investigation is 18 U.S.C. § 1512(c)(2). Section 1512(c) provides:No template for Blockquote found.The Department of Justice has taken the position that Section 1512(c)(2) states a broad, independent, and unqualified prohibition on obstruction of justice.1077 While defendants have argued that subsection (c)(2) should be read to cover only acts that would impair the availability or integrity of evidence because that is subsection (c)(1)’s focus, strong arguments weigh against that proposed limitation. The text of Section 1512(c)(2) confirms that its sweep is not tethered to Section 1512(c)(1); courts have so interpreted it; its history does not counsel otherwise; and no principle of statutory construction dictates a contrary view. On its face, therefore, Section 1512(c)(2) applies to all corrupt means of obstructing a proceeding, pending or contemplated—including by improper exercises of official power. In addition, other statutory provisions that are potentially applicable to certain conduct we investigated broadly prohibit obstruction of proceedings that are pending before courts, grand juries, and Congress. See 18 U.S.C. § 1503, 1505. Congress has also specifically prohibited witness tampering. See 18 U.S.C. § 1512(b).Several textual features of Section 1512(c)(2) support the conclusion that the provision broadly prohibits corrupt means of obstructing justice and is not limited by the more specific prohibitions in Section 1512(c)(1), which focus on evidence impairment.First, the text of Section 1512(c)(2) is unqualified: it reaches acts that “obstruct[], influence[], or impede[] any official proceeding” when committed “corruptly.” Nothing in Section 1512(c)(2)’s text limits the provision to acts that would impair the integrity or availability of evidence for use in an official proceeding. In contrast, Section 1512(c)(1) explicitly includes the requirement that the defendant act “with the intent to impair the object’s integrity or availability1077 See U.S. Br., United States v. Kumar, Nos. 06–5482–cr(L), 06-5654-cr(CON) (2d Cir. filed Oct. 26, 2007), at pp. 15-28; United States v. Singleton, Nos. H-04-CR-514SS, H-06-cr-80 (S.D. Tex. filed June 5, 2006).Vol. 2, Page 160for use in an official proceeding,” a requirement that Congress also included in two other sections of Section 1512. See 18 U.S.C. § 1512(a)(2)(B)(ii) (use of physical force with intent to cause a person to destroy an object “with intent to impair the integrity or availability of the object for use in an official proceeding”); 1512(b)(2)(B) (use of intimidation, threats, corrupt persuasion, or misleading conduct with intent to cause a person to destroy an object “with intent to impair the integrity or availability of the object for use in an official proceeding”). But no comparable intent or conduct element focused on evidence impairment appears in Section 1512(c)(2). The intent element in Section 1512(c)(2) comes from the word “corruptly.” See, e.g., United States v. McKibbins, 656 F.3d 707, 711 (7th Cir. 2011) (“The intent element is important because the word ‘corruptly’ is what serves to separate criminal and innocent acts of obstruction.”) (internal quotation marks omitted). And the conduct element in Section 1512(c)(2) is “obstruct[ing], influenc[ing], or imped[ing]” a proceeding. Congress is presumed to have acted intentionally in the disparate inclusion and exclusion of evidence-impairment language. See Loughrin v. United States, 573 U.S. 351, 358 (2014) (“[W]hen ‘Congress includes particular language in one section of a statute but omits it in another’—let alone in the very next provision—this Court ‘presume[s]’ that Congress intended a difference in meaning”) (quoting Russello v. United States, 464 U.S. 16, 23 (1983)); accord Digital Realty Trust, Inc. v. Somers, 138 S. Ct. 767, 777 (2018).Second, the structure of Section 1512 supports the conclusion that Section 1512(c)(2) defines an independent offense. Section 1512(c)(2) delineates a complete crime with different elements from Section 1512(c)(1)—and each subsection of Section 1512(c) contains its own “attempt” prohibition, underscoring that they are independent prohibitions. The two subsections of Section 1512(c) are connected by the conjunction “or,” indicating that each provides an alternative basis for criminal liability. See Loughrin, 573 U.S. at 357 (“ordinary use [of ‘or’] is almost always disjunctive, that is, the words it connects are to be given separate meanings”) (internal quotation marks omitted). In Loughrin, for example, the Supreme Court relied on the use of the word “or” to hold that adjacent and overlapping subsections of the bank fraud statute, 18 U.S.C. § 1344, state distinct offenses and that subsection 1344(2) therefore should not be interpreted to contain an additional element specified only in subsection 1344(1). Id.; see also Shaw v. United States, 137 S. Ct. 462, 465-469 (2016) (recognizing that the subsections of the bank fraud statute “overlap substantially” but identifying distinct circumstances covered by each).1078 And here, as in Loughrin, Section 1512(c)’s “two clauses have separate numbers, line breaks before, between, and after them, and equivalent indentation—thus placing the clauses visually on an equal footing and indicating that they have separate meanings.” 573 U.S. at 359.Third, the introductory word “otherwise” in Section 1512(c)(2) signals that the provision covers obstructive acts that are different from those listed in Section 1512(c)(1). See Black’s Law Dictionary 1101 (6th ed. 1990) (“otherwise” means in a different manner; in another way, or in other ways”); see also, e.g., American Heritage College Dictionary Online (“1. In another way;1078 The Office of Legal Counsel recently relied on several of the same interpretive principles in concluding that language that appeared in the first clause of the Wire Act, 18 U.S.C. § 1084, restricting its prohibition against certain betting or wagering activities to “any sporting event or contest,” did not apply to the second clause of the same statute, which reaches other betting or wagering activities. See Reconsidering Whether the Wire Act Applies to Non-Sports Gambling (Nov. 2, 2018), slip op. 7 (relying on plain language); id. at 11 (finding it not “tenable to read into the second clause the qualifier ‘on any sporting event or contest’ that appears in the first clause”); id. at 12 (relying on Digital Realty).Vol. 2, Page 161differently; 2. Under other circumstances”); see also Gooch v. United States, 297 U.S. 124, 128 (1936) (characterizing “otherwise” as a “broad term” and holding that a statutory prohibition on kidnapping “for ransom or reward or otherwise” is not limited by the words “ransom” and “reward” to kidnappings for pecuniary benefits); Collazos v. United States, 368 F.3d 190, 200 (2d Cir. 2004) (construing “otherwise” in 28 U.S.C. § 2466(1)(C) to reach beyond the “specific examples” listed in prior subsections, thereby covering the “myriad means that human ingenuity might devise to permit a person to avoid the jurisdiction of a court”); cf. Begay v. United States, 553 U.S. 137, 144 (2006) (recognizing that “otherwise” is defined to mean “in a different way or manner,” and holding that the word “otherwise” introducing the residual clause in the Armed Career Criminal Act, 18 U.S.C. § 924(e)(2)(B)(ii), can, but need not necessarily, “refer to a crime that is similar to the listed examples in some respects but different in others”).1079 The purpose of the word “otherwise” in Section 1512(c)(2) is therefore to clarify that the provision covers obstructive acts other than the destruction of physical evidence with the intent to impair its integrity or availability, which is the conduct addressed in Section 1512(c)(1). The word “otherwise” does not signal that Section 1512(c)(2) has less breadth in covering obstructive conduct than the language of the provision implies.Courts have not limited Section 1512(c)(2) to conduct that impairs evidence, but instead have read it to cover obstructive acts in any form.As one court explained, “[t]his expansive subsection operates as a catch-all to cover ‘otherwise’ obstructive behavior that might not constitute a more specific offense like document destruction, which is listed in (c)(1).” United States v. Volpendesto, 746 F.3d 273, 286 (7th Cir. 2014) (some quotation marks omitted). For example, in United States v. Ring, 628 F. Supp. 2d 195 (D.D.C. 2009), the court rejected the argument that “§ 1512(c)(2)’s reference to conduct that ‘otherwise obstructs, influences, or impedes any official proceeding’ is limited to conduct that is similar to the type of conduct proscribed by subsection (c)(1)—namely, conduct that impairs the integrity or availability of ‘record[s], documents[s], or other object[s] for use in an official proceeding.” Id. at 224. The court explained that “the meaning of § 1512(c)(2) is plain on its face.” Id. (alternations in original). And courts have upheld convictions under Section 1512(c)(2) that did not involve evidence impairment, but instead resulted from conduct that more broadly thwarted arrests or investigations. See, e.g., United States v. Martinez, 862 F.3d 223, 238 (2d Cir. 2017) (police officer tipped off suspects about issuance of arrest warrants before “outstanding warrants could be executed, thereby potentially interfering with an ongoing grand jury proceeding”); United States v. Ahrensfield, 698 F.3d 1310, 1324-1326 (10th Cir. 2012) (officer disclosed existence of an undercover investigation to its target); United States v. Phillips, 583 F.3d 1261, 1265 (10th Cir. 2009) (defendant disclosed identity of an undercover officer thus preventing him from making controlled purchases from methamphetamine dealers). Those cases illustrate, that Section 1512(c)(2) applies to corrupt acts—including by public officials—that frustrate the1079 In Sykes v. United States, 564 U.S. 1, 15 (2011), the Supreme Court substantially abandoned Begay’s reading of the residual clause, and in Johnson v. United States, 135 S. Ct. 2551 (2015), the Court invalidated the residual clause as unconstitutionally vague. Begay’s analysis of the word “otherwise” is thus of limited value.Vol. 2, Page 162commencement or conduct of a proceeding, and not just to acts that make evidence unavailable or impair its integrity.Section 1512(c)(2)’s breadth is reinforced by the similarity of its language to the omnibus clause of 18 U.S.C. § 1503, which covers anyone who “corruptly ... obstructs, or impedes, or endeavors to influence, obstruct, or impede, the due administration of justice.” That clause of Section 1503 follows two more specific clauses that protect jurors, judges, and court officers. The omnibus clause has nevertheless been construed to be “far more general in scope than the earlier clauses of the statute.” United States v. Aguilar, 515 U.S. 593, 599 (1995). “The omnibus clause is essentially a catch-all provision which generally prohibits conduct that interferes with the due administration of justice.” United States v. Brenson, 104 F.3d 1267, 1275 (11th Cir. 1997). Courts have accordingly given it a “non-restrictive reading.” United States v. Kumar, 617 F.3d 612, 620 (2d Cir. 2010); id. at 620 n.7 (collecting cases from the Third, Fourth, Sixth, Seventh, and Eleventh Circuits). As one court has explained, the omnibus clause “prohibits acts that are similar in result, rather than manner, to the conduct described in the first part of the statute.” United States v. Howard, 569 F.2d 1331, 1333 (5th Cir. 1978). While the specific clauses “forbid certain means of obstructing justice ... the omnibus clause aims at obstruction of justice itself, regardless of the means used to reach that result.” Id. (collecting cases). Given the similarity of Section 1512(c)(2) to Section 1503’s omnibus clause, Congress would have expected Section 1512(c)(2) to cover acts that produced a similar result to the evidence-impairment provisions—i.e., the result of obstructing justice—rather than covering only acts that were similar in manner. Read this way, Section 1512(c)(2) serves a distinct function in the federal obstruction-of-justice statutes: it captures corrupt conduct, other than document destruction, that has the natural tendency to obstruct contemplated as well as pending proceedings.Section 1512(c)(2) overlaps with other obstruction statutes, but it does not render them superfluous. Section 1503, for example, which covers pending grand jury and judicial proceedings, and Section 1505, which covers pending administrative and congressional proceedings, reach “endeavors to influence, obstruct, or impede” the proceedings—a broader test for inchoate violations than Section 1512(c)(2)’s “attempt” standard, which requires a substantial step towards a completed offense. See United States v. Sampson, 898 F.3d 287,302 (2d Cir. 2018) (“[E]fforts to witness tamper that rise to the level of an ‘endeavor’ yet fall short of an ‘attempt’ cannot be prosecuted under § 1512.”); United States v. Leisure, 844 F.2d 1347, 1366-1367 (8th Cir. 1988) (collecting cases recognizing the difference between the “endeavor” and “attempt” standards). And 18 U.S.C. § 1519, which prohibits destruction of documents or records in contemplation of an investigation or proceeding, does not require the “nexus” showing under Aguilar, which Section 1512(c)(2) demands. See, e.g., United States v. Yielding, 657 F.3d 688, 712 (8th Cir. 2011) (“The requisite knowledge and intent [under Section 1519] can be present even if the accused lacks knowledge that he is likely to succeed in obstructing the matter.”); United States v. Gray, 642 F.3d 371, 376-377 (2d Cir. 2011) (“[I]n enacting § 1519, Congress rejected any requirement that the government prove a link between a defendant’s conduct and an imminent or pending official proceeding.”). The existence of even “substantial” overlap is not “uncommon” in criminal statutes. Loughrin, 573 U.S. at 359 n.4; see Shaw, 137 S. Ct. at 458-469; Aguilar, 515 U.S. at 616 (Scalia, J., dissenting) (“The fact that there is now some overlap between § 1503 and § 1512 is no more intolerable than the fact that there is some overlap between the omnibus clause of § 1503 and the other provisions of § 1503 itself.”). But given that Sections 1503, 1505, andVol. 2, Page 1631519 each reach conduct that Section 1512(c)(2) does not, the overlap provides no reason to give Section 1512(c)(2) an artificially limited construction. See Shaw, 137 S. Ct. at 469.1080"Given the straightforward statutory command” in Section 1512(C)(2), “there is no reason to resort to legislative history.” United States v. Gonzales, 520 U.S. 1, 6 (1997). In any event, the legislative history of Section 1512(c)(2) is not a reason to impose extratextual limitations on its reach.Congress enacted Section 1512(c)(2) as part the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, Pub. L. No. 107-204, Tit. XI, § 1102, 116 Stat. 807. The relevant section of the statute was entitled “Tampering with a Record or Otherwise Impeding an Official Proceeding.” 116 Stat. 807 (emphasis added). That title indicates that Congress intended the two clauses to have independent effect. Section 1512(c) was added as a floor amendment in the Senate and explained as closing a certain “loophole” with respect to “document shredding.” See 148 Cong. Rec. S6545 (July 10, 2002) (Sen. Lott); id. at S6549-S6550 (Sen. Hatch). But those explanations do not limit the enacted text. See Pittston Coal Group v. Sebben, 488 U.S. 105, 115 (1988) (“[I]t is not the law that a statute can have no effects which are not explicitly mentioned in its legislative history.”); see also Encino Motorcars, LLC v. Navarro, 138 S. Ct. 1134, 1143 (2018) (“Even if Congress did not foresee all of the applications of the statute, that is no reason not to give the statutory text a fair reading.”). The floor statements thus cannot detract from the meaning of the enacted text. See Barnhart v. Sigmon Coal Co., 534 U.S. 438, 457 (2002) (“Floor statements from two Senators cannot amend the clear and unambiguous language of a statute. We see no reason to give greater weight to the views of two Senators than to the collective votes of both Houses, which are memorialized in the unambiguous statutory text.”). That principle has particular force where one of the proponents of the amendment to Section 1512 introduced his remarks as only “briefly elaborat[ing] on some of the specific provisions contained in this bill.” 148 Cong. Rec. S6550 (Sen. Hatch).Indeed, the language Congress used in Section 1512(c)(2)—prohibiting “corruptly ... obstruct[ing], influenc[ing], or imped[ing] any official proceeding” or attempting to do so—parallels a provision that Congress considered years earlier in a bill designed to strengthen protections against witness tampering and obstruction of justice. While the earlier provision is not a direct antecedent of Section 1512(c)(2), Congress’s understanding of the broad scope of the1080 The Supreme Court’s decision in Marinello v. United States, 138 S. Ct. 1101 (2018), does not support imposing a non-textual limitation on Section 1512(c)(2). Marinello interpreted the tax obstruction statute, 26 U.S.C. § 7212(a), to require “a ‘nexus’ between the defendant’s conduct and a particular administrative proceeding.” Id. at 1109. The Court adopted that construction in light of the similar interpretation given to “other obstruction provisions,” id. (citing Aguilar and Arthur Andersen), as well as considerations of context, legislative history, structure of the criminal tax laws, fair warning, and lenity. Id. at 1106-1108. The type of “nexus” element the Court adopted in Marinello already applies under Section 1512(c)(2), and the remaining considerations the Court cited do not justify reading into Section 1512(c)(2) language that is not there. See Bates v. United States, 522 U.S. 23, 29 (1997) (the Court “ordinarily resist[s] reading words or elements into a statute that do not appear on its face.”).Vol. 2, Page 164earlier provision is instructive. Recognizing that “the proper administration of justice may be impeded or thwarted” by a “variety of corrupt methods ... limited only by the imagination of the criminally inclined,” S. Rep. No. 532, 97th Cong., 2d Sess. 17-18 (1982), Congress considered a bill that would have amended Section 1512 by making it a crime, inter alia, when a person “corruptly ... influences, obstructs, or impedes ... [t]he enforcement and prosecution of federal law,” “administration of a law under which an official proceeding is being or may be conducted,” or the “exercise of a Federal legislative power of inquiry.” Id. at 17-19 (quoting S. 2420).Id. at 18. The report gave examples of conduct “actually prosecuted under the current residual clause [in 18 U.S.C. § 1503], which would probably not be covered in this series [of provisions] without a residual clause.” Id. One prominent example was “[a] conspiracy to cover up the Watergate burglary and its aftermath by having the Central Intelligence Agency seek to interfere with an ongoing FBI investigation of the burglary.” Id. (citing United States v. Haldeman, 559 F.2d 31 (D.C. Cir. 1976)). The report therefore indicates a congressional awareness not only that residual-clause language resembling Section 1512(c)(2) broadly covers a wide variety of obstructive conduct, but also that such language reaches the improper use of governmental processes to obstruct justice—specifically, the Watergate cover-up orchestrated by White House officials including the President himself. See Haldeman, 559 F.3d at 51, 86-87, 120-129, 162.1081The requirement of fair warning in criminal law, the interest in avoiding due process concerns in potentially vague statutes, and the rule of lenity do not justify narrowing the reach of Section 1512(c)(2)’s text.1082a. As with other criminal laws, the Supreme Court has “exercised restraint” in interpreting obstruction-of-justice provisions, both out of respect for Congress’s role in defining crimes and in the interest of providing individuals with “fair warning” of what a criminal statute prohibits. Marinello v. United States, 138 S. Ct. 1101, 1106 (2018); Arthur Andersen, 544 U.S. at 703;1081 The Senate ultimately accepted the House version of the bill, which excluded an omnibus clause. See United States v. Poindexter, 951 F.2d 369, 382-383 (D.C. Cir. 1991) (tracing history of the proposed omnibus provision in the witness-protection legislation). During the floor debate on the bill, Senator Heinz, one of the initiators and primary backers of the legislation, explained that the omnibus clause was beyond the scope of the witness-protection measure at issue and likely “duplicative” of other obstruction laws, 128 Cong. Rec. 26,810 (1982) (Sen. Heinz), presumably referring to Sections 1503 and 1505.1082 In a separate section addressing considerations unique to the presidency, we consider principles of statutory construction relevant in that context. See Volume II, Section III.B.1, infra.Vol. 2, Page 165Aguilar, 515 U.S. at 599-602. In several obstruction cases, the Court has imposed a nexus test that requires that the wrongful conduct targeted by the provision be sufficiently connected to an official proceeding to ensure the requisite culpability. Marinello, 138 S. Ct. at 1109; Arthur Andersen, 544 U.S. at 707-708; Aguilar, 515 U.S. at 600-602. Section 1512(c)(2) has been interpreted to require a similar nexus. See, e.g., United States v. Young, 916 F.3d 368, 386 (4th Cir. 2019); United States v. Petruk, 781 F.3d 438, 445 (8th Cir. 2015); United States v. Phillips, 583 F.3d 1261, 1264 (10th Cir. 2009); United States v. Reich, 479 F.3d 179, 186 (2d Cir. 2007). To satisfy the nexus requirement, the government must show as an objective matter that a defendant acted “in a manner that is likely to obstruct justice,” such that the statute “excludes defendants who have an evil purpose but use means that would only unnaturally and improbably be successful.” Aguilar, 515 U.S. at 601-602 (internal quotation marks omitted); see id. at 599 (“the endeavor must have the natural and probable effect of interfering with the due administration of justice”) (internal quotation marks omitted). The government must also show as a subjective matter that the actor “contemplated a particular, foreseeable proceeding.” Petruk, 781 F.3d at 445. Those requirements alleviate fair-warning concerns by ensuring that obstructive conduct has a close enough connection to existing or future proceedings to implicate the dangers targeted by the obstruction laws and that the individual actually has the obstructive result in mind.b. Courts also seek to construe statutes to avoid due process vagueness concerns. See, e.g., McDonnell v. United States, 136 S. Ct. 2355, 2373 (2016); Skilling v. United States, 561 U.S. 358, 368, 402-404 (2010). Vagueness doctrine requires that a statute define a crime “with sufficient definiteness that ordinary people can understand what conduct is prohibited” and “in a manner that does not encourage arbitrary and discriminatory enforcement.” Id. at 402-403 (internal quotation marks omitted). The obstruction statutes’ requirement of acting “corruptly” satisfies that test.“Acting ‘corruptly’ within the meaning of § 1512(c)(2) means acting with an improper purpose and to engage in conduct knowingly and dishonestly with the specific intent to subvert, impede or obstruct” the relevant proceeding. United States v. Gordon, 710 F.3d 1124, 1151 (10th Cir. 2013) (some quotation marks omitted). The majority opinion in Aguilar did not address the defendant’s vagueness challenge to the word “corruptly,” 515 U.S. at 600 n. 1, but Justice Scalia’s separate opinion did reach that issue and would have rejected the challenge, id. at 616-617 (Scalia, J., joined by Kennedy and Thomas, JJ., concurring in part and dissenting in part). “Statutory language need not be colloquial,” Justice Scalia explained, and “the term ‘corruptly’ in criminal laws has a longstanding and well-accepted meaning. It denotes an act done with an intent to give some advantage inconsistent with official duty and the rights of others.” Id. at 616 (internal quotation marks omitted; citing lower court authority and legal dictionaries). Justice Scalia added that “in the context of obstructing jury proceedings, any claim of ignorance of wrongdoing is incredible.” Id. at 617. Lower courts have also rejected vagueness challenges to the word “corruptly.” See, e.g., United States v. Edwards, 869 F.3d 490, 501-502 (7th Cir. 2017); United States v. Brenson, 104 F.3d 1267, 1280-1281 (11th Cir. 1997); United States v. Howard, 569 F.2d 1331, 1336 n.9 (5th Cir. 1978). This well-established intent standard precludes the need to limit the obstruction statutes to only certain kinds of inherently wrongful conduct.10831083 In United States v. Poindexter, 951 F.2d 369 (D.C. Cir. 1991), the court of appeals found the term “corruptly” in 18 U.S.C. § 1505 vague as applied to a person who provided false information to Congress. After suggesting that the word “corruptly” was vague on its face, 951 F.2d at 378, the court concluded that the statute did not clearly apply to corrupt conduct by the person himself and the “core” conduct to which Section 1505 could constitutionally be applied was one person influencing another person to violate a legal duty. Id. at 379-386. Congress later enacted a provision overturning that result by providing that “[a]s used in [S]ection 1505, the term ‘corruptly’ means acting with an improper purpose, personally or by influencing another, including by making a false or misleading statement, or withholding, concealing, altering, or destroying a document or other information.” 18 U.S.C. § 1515(b). Other courts have declined to follow Poindexter either by limiting it to Section 1505 and the specific conduct at issue in that case, see Brenson, 104 F.3d at 1280-1281; reading it as narrowly limited to certain types of conduct, see United States v. Morrison, 98 F.3d 619, 629-630 (D.C. Cir. 1996); or by noting that it predated Arthur Andersen’s interpretation of the term “corruptly,” see Edwards, 869 F.3d at 501-502.Vol. 2, Page 166c. Finally, the rule of lenity does not justify treating Section 1512(c)(2) as a prohibition on evidence impairment, as opposed to an omnibus clause. The rule of lenity is an interpretive principle that resolves ambiguity in criminal laws in favor of the less-severe construction. Cleveland v. United States, 531 U.S. 12, 25 (2000). “[A]s [the Court has] repeatedly emphasized,” however, the rule of lenity applies only if, “after considering text, structure, history and purpose, there remains a grievous ambiguity or uncertainty in the statute such that the Court must simply guess as to what Congress intended.” Abramski v. United States, 573 U.S. 169, 188 n.10 (2014) (internal quotation marks omitted). The rule has been cited, for example, in adopting a narrow meaning of “tangible object” in an obstruction statute when the prohibition’s title, history, and list of prohibited acts indicated a focus on destruction of records. See Yates v. United States, 135 S. Ct. 1074, 1088 (2015) (plurality opinion) (interpreting “tangible object” in the phrase “record, document, or tangible object” in 18 U.S.C. § 1519 to mean an item capable of recording or preserving information). Here, as discussed above, the text, structure, and history of Section 1512(c)(2) leaves no “grievous ambiguity” about the statute’s meaning. Section 1512(c)(2) defines a structurally independent general prohibition on obstruction of official proceedings.Regardless whether Section 1512(C)(2) covers all corrupt acts that obstruct, influence, or impede pending or contemplated proceedings, other statutes would apply to such conduct in pending proceedings, provided that the remaining statutory elements are satisfied. As discussed above, the omnibus clause in 18 U.S.C. § 1503(a) applies generally to obstruction of pending judicial and grand proceedings.1084 See Aguilar, 515 U.S. at 598 (noting that the clause is “far more general in scope” than preceding provisions). Section 1503(a)’s protections extend to witness tampering and to other obstructive conduct that has a nexus to pending proceedings. See Sampson, 898 F.3d at 298-303 &amp; n.6 (collecting cases from eight circuits holding that Section 1503 covers witness-related obstructive conduct, and cabining prior circuit authority). And Section 1505 broadly criminalizes obstructive conduct aimed at pending agency and congressional proceedings.1085 See, e.g., United States v. Rainey, 757 F.3d 234, 241-247 (5th Cir. 2014).1084 Section 1503(a) provides for criminal punishment of:Whoever ... corruptly or by threats or force, or by any threatening letter or communication, influences, obstructs, or impedes, or endeavors to influence, obstruct, or impede, the due administration of justice.1085 Section 1505 provides for criminal punishment of:Whoever corruptly... influences, obstructs, or impedes or endeavors to influence, obstruct, or impede the due and proper administration of the law under which any pending proceeding is being had before any department or agency of the United States, or the due and proper exercise of the power of inquiry under which any inquiry or investigation is being had by either House, or any committee of either House or any joint committee of the Congress.Vol. 2, Page 167Finally, 18 U.S.C. § 1512(b)(3) criminalizes tampering with witnesses to prevent the communication of information about a crime to law enforcement. The nexus inquiry articulated in Aguilar—that an individual has “knowledge that his actions are likely to affect the judicial proceeding,” 515 U.S. at 599—does not apply to Section 1512(b)(3). See United States v. Byrne, 435 F.3d 16, 24-25 (1st Cir. 2006). The nexus inquiry turns instead on the actor’s intent to prevent communications to a federal law enforcement official. See Fowler v. United States, 563 U.S. 668, 673-678 (2011).* * *In sum, in light of the breadth of Section 1512(c)(2) and the other obstruction statutes, an argument that the conduct at issue in this investigation falls outside the scope of the obstruction laws lacks merit.The President has broad discretion to direct criminal investigations. The Constitution vests the “executive Power” in the President and enjoins him to “take Care that the Laws be faithfully executed.” U.S. CONST. ART II, §§ 1, 3. Those powers and duties form the foundation of prosecutorial discretion. See United States v. Armstrong, 517 U.S. 456, 464 (1996) (Attorney General and United States Attorneys “have this latitude because they are designated by statute as the President’s delegates to help him discharge his constitutional responsibility to ‘take Care that the Laws be faithfully executed.’”). The President also has authority to appoint officers of the United States and to remove those whom he has appointed. U.S. CONST. ART II, § 2, cl. 2 (granting authority to the President to appoint all officers with the advice and consent of the Senate, but providing that Congress may vest the appointment of inferior officers in the President alone, the heads of departments, or the courts of law); see also Free Enterprise Fund v. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, 561 U.S. 477, 492-493, 509 (2010) (describing removal authority as flowing from the President’s “responsibility to take care that the laws be faithfully executed”).Although the President has broad authority under Article II, that authority coexists with Congress’s Article I power to enact laws that protect congressional proceedings, federal investigations, the courts, and grand juries against corrupt efforts to undermine their functions. Usually, those constitutional powers function in harmony, with the President enforcing the criminal laws under Article II to protect against corrupt obstructive acts. But when the President’s official actions come into conflict with the prohibitions in the obstruction statutes, any constitutional tension is reconciled through separation-of-powers analysis.Vol. 2, Page 168The President’s counsel has argued that “the President’s exercise of his constitutional authority ... to terminate an FBI Director and to close investigations ... cannot constitutionally constitute obstruction of justice.”1086 As noted above, no Department of Justice position or Supreme Court precedent directly resolved this issue. We did not find counsel’s contention, however, to accord with our reading of the Supreme Court authority addressing separation-of-powers issues. Applying the Court’s framework for analysis, we concluded that Congress can validly regulate the President’s exercise of official duties to prohibit actions motivated by a corrupt intent to obstruct justice. The limited effect on presidential power that results from that restriction would not impermissibly undermine the President’s ability to perform his Article II functions.Before addressing Article II issues directly, we consider one threshold statutory-construction principle that is unique to the presidency: “The principle that general statutes must be read as not applying to the President if they do not expressly apply where application would arguably limit the President’s constitutional role.” OLC, Application of 28 U.S.C. § 458 to Presidential Appointments of Federal Judges, 19 Op. O.L.C. 350, 352 (1995). This “clear statement rule,” id., has its source in two principles: statutes should be construed to avoid serious constitutional questions, and Congress should not be assumed to have altered the constitutional separation of powers without clear assurance that it intended that result. OLC, The Constitutional Separation of Powers Between the President and Congress, 20 Op.O.L.C. 124, 178 (1996).The Supreme Court has applied that clear-statement rule in several cases. In one leading case, the Court construed the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. § 701 et seq., not to apply to judicial review of presidential action. Franklin v. Massachusetts, 505 U.S. 788, 800-801 (1992). The Court explained that it “would require an express statement by Congress before assuming it intended the President’s performance of his statutory duties to be reviewed for abuse of discretion.” Id. at 801. In another case, the Court interpreted the word “utilized” in the Federal Advisory Committee Act (FACA), 5 U.S.C. App., to apply only to the use of advisory committees established directly or indirectly by the government, thereby excluding the American Bar Association’s advice to the Department of Justice about federal judicial candidates. Public Citizen v. United States Department of Justice, 491 U.S. 440, 455, 462-467 (1989). The Court explained that a broader interpretation of the term “utilized” in FACA would raise serious questions whether the statute “infringed unduly on the President’s Article II power to nominate federal judges and violated the doctrine of separation of powers.” Id. at 466-467. Another case found that an established canon of statutory construction applied with “special force” to provisions that would impinge on the President’s foreign-affairs powers if construed broadly. Sale v. Haitian Centers Council, 509 U.S. 155, 188 (1993) (applying the presumption against extraterritorial application to construe the Refugee Act of 1980 as not governing in an overseas context where it could affect “foreign and military affairs for which the President has unique responsibility”). See Application 1086 6/23/17 Letter, President’s Personal Counsel to Special Counsel’s Office, at 2 n. 1.Vol. 2, Page 169of 28 U.S.C. § 458 to Presidential Appointments of Federal Judges, 19 Op. O.L.C. at 353-354 (discussing Franklin, Public Citizen, and Sale).The Department of Justice has relied on this clear-statement principle to interpret certain statutes as not applying to the President at all, similar to the approach taken in Franklin. See, e.g., Memorandum for Richard T. Burress, Office of the President, from Laurence H. Silberman, Deputy Attorney General, Re: Conflict of Interest Problems Arising out of the President’s Nomination of Nelson A. Rockefeller to be Vice President under the Twenty-Fifth Amendment to the Constitution, at 2, 5 (Aug. 28, 1974) (criminal conflict-of-interest statute, 18 U.S.C. § 208, does not apply to the President). Other OLC opinions interpret statutory text not to apply to certain presidential or executive actions because of constitutional concerns. See Application of 28 U.S.C. § 458 to Presidential Appointments of Federal Judges, 19 Op. O.L.C. at 350-357 (consanguinity limitations on court appointments, 28 U.S.C. § 458, found inapplicable to “presidential appointments of judges to the federal judiciary&amp;apos); Constraints Imposed by 18 U.S.C. § 1913 on Lobbying Efforts, 13 Op. O.L.C. 300, 304-306 (1989) (limitation on the use of appropriated funds for certain lobbying programs found inapplicable to certain communications by the President and executive officials).But OLC has also recognized that this clear-statement rule “does not apply with respect to a statute that raises no separation of powers questions were it to be applied to the President,” such as the federal bribery statute, 18 U.S.C. § 201. Application of 28 U.S.C. § 458 to Presidential Appointments of Federal Judges, 19 Op. O.L.C. at 357 n.11. OLC explained that “[a]pplication of § 201 raises no separation of powers question, let alone a serious one,” because [t]he Constitution confers no power in the President to receive bribes.” Id. In support of that conclusion, OLC noted constitutional provisions that forbid increases in the President’s compensation while in office, “which is what a bribe would function to do,” id. (citing U.S. CONST. ART. II, § 1, cl. 7), and the express constitutional power of “Congress to impeach [and convict] a President for, inter alia, bribery,” id. (citing U.S. CONST. ART II, § 4).Under OLC’s analysis, Congress can permissibly criminalize certain obstructive conduct by the President, such as suborning perjury, intimidating witnesses, or fabricating evidence, because those prohibitions raise no separation-of-powers questions. See Application of 28 U.S.C. § 458 to Presidential Appointments of Federal Judges, 19 Op. O.L.C. at 357 n.11. The Constitution does not authorize the President to engage in such conduct, and those actions would transgress the President’s duty to “take Care that the Laws be faithfully executed.” U.S. CONST. ART II, § 3. In view of those clearly permissible applications of the obstruction statutes to the President, Franklin’s holding that the President is entirely excluded from a statute absent a clear statement would not apply in this context.A more limited application of a clear-statement rule to exclude from the obstruction statutes only certain acts by the President-for example, removing prosecutors or ending investigations for corrupt reasons—would be difficult to implement as a matter of statutory interpretation. It is not obvious how a clear-statement rule would apply to an omnibus provision like Section 1512(c)(2) to exclude corruptly motivated obstructive acts only when carried out in the President’s conduct of office. No statutory term could easily bear that specialized meaning. For example, the word “corruptly” has a well-established meaning that does not exclude exercises of official power for corrupt ends. Indeed, an established definition states that “corruptly” means action with anVol. 2, Page 170intent to secure an improper advantage “inconsistent with official duty and the rights of others.” BALLENTINE’s LAW DICTIONARY 276 (3d ed. 1969) (emphasis added). And it would be contrary to ordinary rules of statutory construction to adopt an unconventional meaning of a statutory term only when applied to the President. See United States v. Santos, 553 U.S. 507, 522 (2008) (plurality opinion of Scalia, J.) (rejecting proposal to “giv[e] the same word, in the same statutory provision, different meanings in different factual contexts”); cf. Public Citizen, 491 U.S. at 462- 467 (giving the term “utilized” in the FACA a uniform meaning to avoid constitutional questions). Nor could such an exclusion draw on a separate and established background interpretive presumption, such as the presumption against extraterritoriality applied in Sale. The principle that courts will construe a statute to avoid serious constitutional questions “is not a license for the judiciary to rewrite language enacted by the legislature.” Salinas v. United States, 522 U.S. 52, 59-60 (1997). “It is one thing to acknowledge and accept ... well defined (or even newly enunciated), generally applicable, background principles of assumed legislative intent. It is quite another to espouse the broad proposition that criminal statutes do not have to be read as broadly as they are written, but are subject to case-by-case exceptions.” Brogan v. United States, 522 U.S. 398, 406 (1998).When a proposed construction “would thus function as an extra-textual limit on [a statute’s] compass,” thereby preventing the statute “from applying to a host of cases falling within its clear terms,” Loughrin, 573 U.S. at 357, it is doubtful that the construction would reflect Congress’s intent. That is particularly so with respect to obstruction statutes, which “have been given a broad and all-inclusive meaning.” Rainey, 757 F.3d at 245 (discussing Sections 1503 and 1505) (internal quotation marks omitted). Accordingly, since no established principle of interpretation would exclude the presidential conduct we have investigated from statutes such as Sections 1503, 1505, 1512(b), and 1512(c)(2), we proceed to examine the separation-of-powers issues that could be raised as an Article II defense to the application of those statutes.When Congress imposes a limitation on the exercise of Article II powers, the limitation’s validity depends on whether the measure “disrupts the balance between the coordinate branches.” Nixon v. Administrator of General Services, 433 U.S. 425, 443 (1977). “Even when a branch does not arrogate power to itself, ... the separation-of-powers doctrine requires that a branch not impair another in the performance of its constitutional duties.” Loving v. United States, 517 U.S. 748, 757 (1996). The “separation of powers does not mean,” however, “that the branches ‘ought to have no partial agency in, or no controul over the acts of each other.” Clinton v. Jones, 520 U.S. 681, 703 (1997) (quoting James Madison, The Federalist No. 47, pp. 325-326 (J. Cooke ed. 1961) (emphasis omitted)). In this context, a balancing test applies to assess separation-of-powers issues. Applying that test here, we concluded that Congress can validly make obstruction-of-justice statutes applicable to corruptly motivated official acts of the President without impermissibly undermining his Article II functions.Vol. 2, Page 171A congressionally imposed limitation on presidential action is assessed to determine the extent to which it prevents the Executive Branch from accomplishing its constitutionally assigned functions,” and, if the “potential for disruption is present[] ... whether that impact is justified by an overriding need to promote objectives within the constitutional authority of Congress.” Administrator of General Services, 433 U.S. at 443; see Nixon v. Fitzgerald, 457 U.S. 731,753- 754 (1982); United States v. Nixon, 418 U.S. 683, 706-707 (1974). That balancing test applies to a congressional regulation of presidential power through the obstruction-of-justice laws. 1087When an Article II power has not been “explicitly assigned by the text of the Constitution to be within the sole province of the President, but rather was thought to be encompassed within the general grant to the President of the executive Power,” the Court has balanced competing constitutional considerations. Public Citizen, 491 U.S. at 484 (Kennedy, J., concurring in the judgment, joined by Rehnquist, C.J., and O&amp;aposConnor, J.). As Justice Kennedy noted in Public Citizen, the Court has applied a balancing test to restrictions on the President’s power to remove Executive officers, a power [that] ... is not conferred by any explicit provision in the text of the Constitution (as is the appointment power), but rather is inferred to be a necessary part of the grant of the executive Power.”” Id. (citing Morrison v. Olson, 487 U.S. 654, 694 (1988), and Myers v. United States, 272 U.S. 52, 115–116 (1926)). Consistent with that statement, Morrison sustained a good-cause limitation on the removal of an inferior officer with defined prosecutorial responsibilities after determining that the limitation did not impermissibly undermine the President’s ability to perform his Article II functions. 487 U.S. at 691-693, 695-696. The Court has also evaluated other general executive-power claims through a balancing test. For example, the Court evaluated the President’s claim of an absolute privilege for presidential communications about his official acts by balancing that interest against the Judicial Branch’s need for evidence in a criminal case. United States v. Nixon, supra (recognizing a qualified constitutional privilege for presidential communications on official matters). The Court has also upheld a law that provided for archival access to presidential records despite a claim of absolute presidential privilege over the records. Administrator of General Services, 433 U.S. at 443-445, 451-455. The analysis in those cases supports applying a balancing test to assess the constitutionality of applying the obstruction-of-justice statutes to presidential exercises of executive power.Only in a few instances has the Court applied a different framework. When the President’s power is both ‘exclusive and conclusive’ on the issue,” Congress is precluded from regulating its exercise. Zivotofsky v. Kerry, 135 S. Ct. 2076, 2084 (2015). In Zivotofsky, for example, the Court followed “Justice Jackson’s familiar tripartite framework” in Youngstown Sheet &amp; Tube Co. v. Sawyer, 343 U.S. 579, 635-638 (1952) (Jackson, J., concurring), and held that the President’s1087 OLC applied such a balancing test in concluding that the President is not subject to criminal prosecution while in office, relying on many of the same precedents discussed in this section. See A Sitting President’s Amenability to Indictment and Criminal Prosecution, 24 Op. O.L.C. 222, 237-238, 244-245 (2000) (relying on, inter alia, United States v. Nixon, Nixon v. Fitzgerald, and Clinton v. Jones, and quoting the legal standard from Administrator of General Services v. Nixon that is applied in the text). OLC recognized that “[t]he balancing analysis” it had initially relied on in finding that a sitting President is immune from prosecution had “been adopted as the appropriate mode of analysis by the Court.” Id. at 244.Vol. 2, Page 172authority to recognize foreign nations is exclusive. Id. at 2083, 2094. See also Public Citizen 491 U.S. at 485-486 (Kennedy, J., concurring in the judgment) (citing the power to grant pardons under U.S. CONST., ART. II, § 2, cl. 1, and the Presentment Clauses for legislation, U.S. CONST., Art. I, § 7, Cls. 2, 3, as examples of exclusive presidential powers by virtue of constitutional text).But even when a power is exclusive, “Congress’ powers, and its central role in making laws, give it substantial authority regarding many of the policy determinations that precede and follow” the President’s act. Zivotofsky, 135 S. Ct. at 2087. For example, although the President’s power to grant pardons is exclusive and not subject to congressional regulation, see United States v. Klein, 80 U.S. (13 Wall.) 128, 147-148 (1872), Congress has the authority to prohibit the corrupt use of anything of value” to influence the testimony of another person in a judicial, congressional, or agency proceeding, 18 U.S.C. § 201(b)(3)—which would include the offer or promise of a pardon to induce a person to testify falsely or not to testify at all. The offer of a pardon would precede the act of pardoning and thus be within Congress’s power to regulate even if the pardon itself is not. Just as the Speech or Debate Clause, U.S. CONST. ART. I, § 6, cl.1, absolutely protects legislative acts, but not a legislator’s “taking or agreeing to take money for a promise to act in a certain way... for it is taking the bribe, not performance of the illicit compact, that is a criminal act,” United States v. Brewster, 408 U.S. 501, 526 (1972) (emphasis omitted), the promise of a pardon to corruptly influence testimony would not be a constitutionally immunized act. The application of obstruction statutes to such promises therefore would raise no serious separation- of-powers issue.Under the Supreme Court’s balancing test for analyzing separation-of-powers issues, the first task is to assess the degree to which applying obstruction-of-justice statutes to presidential actions affects the President’s ability to carry out his Article II responsibilities. Administrator of General Services, 433 U.S. at 443. As discussed above, applying obstruction-of-justice statutes to presidential conduct that does not involve the President’s conduct of office—such as influencing the testimony of witnesses—is constitutionally unproblematic. The President has no more right than other citizens to impede official proceedings by corruptly influencing witness testimony. The conduct would be equally improper whether effectuated through direct efforts to produce false testimony or suppress the truth, or through the actual, threatened, or promised use of official powers to achieve the same result.The President’s action in curtailing criminal investigations or prosecutions, or discharging law enforcement officials, raises different questions. Each type of action involves the exercise of executive discretion in furtherance of the President’s duty to “take Care that the Laws be faithfully executed.” U.S. CONST., ART. II, § 3. Congress may not supplant the President’s exercise of executive power to supervise prosecutions or to remove officers who occupy law enforcement positions. See Bowsher v. Synar, 478 U.S. 714, 726-727 (1986) (“Congress cannot reserve for itself the power of removal of an officer charged with the execution of the laws except by impeachment. ... [Because t]he structure of the Constitution does not permit Congress to execute the laws, . . . [t]his kind of congressional control over the execution of the laws . . . is constitutionally impermissible.”). Yet the obstruction-of-justice statutes do not aggrandize power in Congress or usurp executive authority. Instead, they impose a discrete limitation on conductVol. 2, Page 173only when it is taken with the “corrupt” intent to obstruct justice. The obstruction statutes thus would restrict presidential action only by prohibiting the President from acting to obstruct official proceedings for the improper purpose of protecting his own interests. See Volume II, Section III.A.3, supra.The direct effect on the President’s freedom of action would correspondingly be a limited one. A preclusion of “corrupt” official action is not a major intrusion on Article II powers. For example, the proper supervision of criminal law does not demand freedom for the President to act with the intention of shielding himself from criminal punishment, avoiding financial liability, or preventing personal embarrassment. To the contrary, a statute that prohibits official action undertaken for such personal purposes furthers, rather than hinders, the impartial and evenhanded administration of the law. And the Constitution does not mandate that the President have unfettered authority to direct investigations or prosecutions, with no limits whatsoever, in order to carry out his Article II functions. See Heckler v. Chaney, 470 U.S. 821, 833 (1985) (“Congress may limit an agency’s exercise of enforcement power if it wishes, either by setting substantive priorities, or by otherwise circumscribing an agency’s power to discriminate among issues or cases it will pursue.”); United States v. Nixon, 418 U.S. at 707 (“[t]o read the Art. II powers of the President as providing an absolute privilege [to withhold confidential communications from a criminal trial]. .. would upset the constitutional balance of a workable government and gravely impair the role of the courts under Art. III”).Nor must the President have unfettered authority to remove all Executive Branch officials involved in the execution of the laws. The Constitution establishes that Congress has legislative authority to structure the Executive Branch by authorizing Congress to create executive departments and officer positions and to specify how inferior officers are appointed. E.g., U.S. CONST., ART. I, § 8, cl. 18 (Necessary and Proper Clause); ART. II, § 2, cl. 1 (Opinions Clause); ART. II, § 2, cl. 2 (Appointments Clause); see Free Enterprise Fund, 561 U.S. at 499. While the President’s removal power is an important means of ensuring that officers faithfully execute the law, Congress has a recognized authority to place certain limits on removal. Id. at 493-495.The President’s removal powers are at their zenith with respect to principal officers—that is, officers who must be appointed by the President and who report to him directly. See Free Enterprise Fund, 561 U.S. at 493, 500. The President’s “exclusive and illimitable power of removal” of those principal officers furthers “the President’s ability to ensure that the laws are faithfully executed.” Id. at 493, 498 (internal quotation marks omitted); Myers, 272 U.S. at 627. Thus, there are some ‘purely executive officials who must be removable by the President at will if he is able to accomplish his constitutional role.” Morrison, 487 U.S. at 690; Myers, 272 U.S. at 134 (the President’s “cabinet officers must do his will,” and “[t]he moment that he loses confidence in the intelligence, ability, judgment, or loyalty of any one of them, he must have the power to remove him without delay”); cf. Humphrey’s Executor v. United States, 295 U.S. 602 (1935) (Congress has the power to create independent agencies headed by principal officers removable only for good cause). In light of those constitutional precedents, it may be that the obstruction statutes could not be constitutionally applied to limit the removal of a cabinet officer such as the Attorney General. See 5 U.S.C. § 101; 28 U.S.C. § 503. In that context, at least absent circumstances showing that the President was clearly attempting to thwart accountability for personal conduct while evading ordinary political checks and balances, even the highly limitedVol. 2, Page 174regulation imposed by the obstruction statutes could possibly intrude too deeply on the President’s freedom to select and supervise the members of his cabinet.The removal of inferior officers, in contrast, need not necessarily be at will for the President to fulfill his constitutionally assigned role in managing the Executive Branch. “[I]nferior officers are officers whose work is directed and supervised at some level by other officers appointed by the President with the Senate’s consent.” Free Enterprise Fund, 561 U.S. at 510 (quoting Edmond v. United States, 520 U.S. 651, 663 (1997)) (internal quotation marks omitted). The Supreme Court has long recognized Congress’s authority to place for-cause limitations on the President’s removal of “inferior Officers” whose appointment may be vested in the head of a department. U.S. CONST. ART. II, § 2, cl. 2. See United States v. Perkins, 116 U.S. 483, 485 (1886) (“The constitutional authority in Congress to thus vest the appointment [of inferior officers in the heads of departments] implies authority to limit, restrict, and regulate the removal by such laws as Congress may enact in relation to the officers so appointed”) (quoting lower court decision); Morrison, 487 U.S. at 689 n. 27 (citing Perkins); accord id. at 723-724 &amp; n.4 (Scalia, J., dissenting) (recognizing that Perkins is “established” law); see also Free Enterprise Fund, 561 U.S. at 493- 495 (citing Perkins and Morrison). The category of inferior officers includes both the FBI Director and the Special Counsel, each of whom reports to the Attorney General. See 28 U.S.C. § 509, 515(a), 531; 28 C.F.R. Part 600. Their work is thus “directed and supervised” by a presidentially- appointed, Senate-confirmed officer. See In re: Grand Jury Investigation,_F.3d_, 2019 WL 921692, at *3-*4 (D.C. Cir. Feb. 26, 2019) (holding that the Special Counsel is an “inferior officer” for constitutional purposes).Where the Constitution permits Congress to impose a good cause limitation on the removal of an Executive Branch officer, the Constitution should equally permit Congress to bar removal for the corrupt purpose of obstructing justice. Limiting the range of permissible reasons for removal to exclude a “corrupt” purpose imposes a lesser restraint on the President than requiring an affirmative showing of good cause. It follows that for such inferior officers, Congress may constitutionally restrict the President’s removal authority if that authority was exercised for the corrupt purpose of obstructing justice. And even if a particular inferior officer’s position might be of such importance to the execution of the laws that the President must have at-will removal authority, the obstruction-of-justice statutes could still be constitutionally applied to forbid removal for a corrupt reason.1088 A narrow and discrete limitation on removal that precluded corrupt action would leave ample room for all other considerations, including disagreement over policy or loss of confidence in the officer’s judgment or commitment. A corrupt-purpose prohibition therefore would not undermine the President’s ability to perform his Article II functions. Accordingly, because the separation-of-powers question is “whether the removal restrictions are of such a nature that they impede the President’s ability to perform his constitutional duty,” Morrison, 487 U.S. at 691, a restriction on removing an inferior officer for a1088 Although the FBI director is an inferior officer, he is appointed by the President and removable by him at will, see 28 U.S.C. § 532 note, and it is not clear that Congress could constitutionally provide the FBI director with good-cause tenure protection. See OLC, Constitutionality of Legislation Extending the Term of the FBI Director, 2011 WL 2566125, at *3 (O.L.C. June 20, 2011) (“tenure protection for an officer with the FBI Director’s broad investigative, administrative, and policymaking responsibilities would raise a serious constitutional question whether Congress had ‘impede[d] the President’s ability to perform his constitutional duty’ to take care that the laws be faithfully executed”) (quoting Morrison, 487 U.S. at 691).Vol. 2, Page 175corrupt reason—a reason grounded in achieving personal rather than official ends—does not seriously hinder the President’s performance of his duties. The President retains broad latitude to supervise investigations and remove officials, circumscribed in this context only by the requirement that he not act for corrupt personal purposes. 1089Where a law imposes a burden on the President’s performance of Article II functions, separation-of-powers analysis considers whether the statutory measure “is justified by an overriding need to promote objectives within the constitutional authority of Congress.” Administrator of General Services, 433 U.S. at 443. Here, Congress enacted the obstruction-of- justice statutes to protect, among other things, the integrity of its own proceedings, grand jury investigations, and federal criminal trials. Those objectives are within Congress’s authority and serve strong governmental interests.i. Congress has Article I authority to define generally applicable criminal law and apply it to all persons including the President. Congress clearly has authority to protect its own legislative functions against corrupt efforts designed to impede legitimate fact-gathering and lawmaking efforts. See Watkins v. United States, 354 U.S. 178, 187, 206-207 (1957); Chapman v. United States, 5 App. D.C. 122, 130 (1895). Congress also has authority to establish a system of federal courts, which includes the power to protect the judiciary against obstructive acts. See U.S. CONST. ART. I, § 8, cls. 9, 18 (“The Congress shall have Power ... To constitute Tribunals inferior to the supreme Court” and “To make all Laws which shall be necessary and proper for carrying into Execution the foregoing powers&amp;apos). The long lineage of the obstruction-of-justice statutes, which can be traced to at least 1831, attests to the necessity for that protection. See An Act Declaratory of the Law Concerning Contempts of Court, 4 Stat. 487-488 § 2 (1831) (making it a crime if “any person or persons shall corruptly ... endeavor to influence, intimidate, or impede any juror, witness, or officer, in any court of the United States, in the discharge of his duty, or shall, corruptly ... obstruct, or impede, or endeavor to obstruct or impede, the due administration of justice therein”).ii. The Article III courts have an equally strong interest in being protected against obstructive acts, whatever their source. As the Supreme Court explained in United States v. Nixon, a “primary constitutional duty of the Judicial Branch” is “to do justice in criminal prosecutions.” 418 U.S. at 707; accord Cheney v. United States District Court for the District of Columbia, 542 U.S. 367, 384 (2004). In Nixon, the Court rejected the President’s claim of absolute executive privilege because “the allowance of the privilege to withhold evidence that is demonstrably1089 The obstruction statutes do not disqualify the President from acting in a case simply because he has a personal interest in it or because his own conduct may be at issue. As the Department of Justice has made clear, a claim of a conflict of interest, standing alone, cannot deprive the President of the ability to fulfill his constitutional function. See, e.g., OLC, Application of 28 U.S.C. § 458 to Presidential Appointments of Federal Judges, 19 O.L.C. Op. at 356 (citing Memorandum for Richard T. Burress, Office of the President, from Laurence H. Silberman, Deputy Attorney General, Re: Conflict of Interest Problems Arising out of the President’s Nomination of Nelson A. Rockefeller to be Vice President under the Twenty- Fifth Amendment to the Constitution, at 2, 5 (Aug. 28, 1974)).Vol. 2, Page 176relevant in a criminal trial would cut deeply into the guarantee of due process of law and gravely impair the basic function of the courts.” 407 U.S. at 712. As Nixon illustrates, the need to safeguard judicial integrity is a compelling constitutional interest. See id. at 709 (noting that the denial of full disclosure of the facts surrounding relevant presidential communications threatens “[t]he very integrity of the judicial system and public confidence in the system”).iii. Finally, the grand jury cannot achieve its constitutional purpose absent protection from corrupt acts. Serious federal criminal charges generally reach the Article III courts based on an indictment issued by a grand jury. Cobbledick v. United States, 309 U.S. 323, 327 (1940) (“The Constitution itself makes the grand jury a part of the judicial process.”). And the grand jury’s function is enshrined in the Fifth Amendment. U.S. CONST. AMEND. V. (“[n]o person shall be held to answer” for a serious crime “unless on a presentment or indictment of a Grand Jury”). “[T]he whole theory of [the grand jury’s] function is that it belongs to no branch of the institutional government, serving as a kind of buffer or referee between the Government and the people,” United States v. Williams, 504 U.S. 36, 47 (1992), “pledged to indict no one because of prejudice and to free no one because of special favor.” Costello v. United States, 350 U.S. 359, 362 (1956). If the grand jury were not protected against corrupt interference from all persons, its function as an independent charging body would be thwarted. And an impartial grand jury investigation to determine whether probable cause exists to indict is vital to the criminal justice process.* * *The final step in the constitutional balancing process is to assess whether the separation- of-powers doctrine permits Congress to take action within its constitutional authority notwithstanding the potential impact on Article Il functions. See Administrator of General Services, 433 U.S. at 443; see also Morrison, 487 U.S. at 691-693, 695-696; United States v. Nixon, 418 U.S. at 711-712. In the case of the obstruction-of-justice statutes, our assessment of the weighing of interests leads us to conclude that Congress has the authority to impose the limited restrictions contained in those statutes on the President’s official conduct to protect the integrity of important functions of other branches of government.A general ban on corrupt action does not unduly intrude on the President’s responsibility to “take Care that the Laws be faithfully executed.” U.S. CONST. ART II, § 3.1090 To the contrary, the concept of “faithful execution” connotes the use of power in the interest of the public, not in the office holder’s personal interests. See 1 Samuel Johnson, A Dictionary of the English Language 763 (1755) (“faithfully” def. 3: “[w]ith strict adherence to duty and allegiance”). And immunizing the President from the generally applicable criminal prohibition against corrupt obstruction of official proceedings would seriously impair Congress’s power to enact laws “to promote objectives within [its] constitutional authority,” Administrator of General Services, 433 U.S. at 425—i.e., protecting the integrity of its own proceedings and the proceedings of Article III courts and grand juries.1090 As noted above, the President’s selection and removal of principal executive officers may have a unique constitutional status.Vol. 2, Page 177Accordingly, based on the analysis above, we were not persuaded by the argument that the President has blanket constitutional immunity to engage in acts that would corruptly obstruct justice through the exercise of otherwise-valid Article II powers.1091Applying the obstruction statutes to the President’s official conduct would involve determining as a factual matter whether he engaged in an obstructive act, whether the act had a nexus to official proceedings, and whether he was motivated by corrupt intent. But applying those standards to the President’s official conduct should not hinder his ability to perform his Article II duties. Cf. Nixon v. Fitzgerald, 457 U.S. at 752-753 &amp; n.32 (taking into account chilling effect on the President in adopting a constitutional rule of presidential immunity from private civil damages action based on official duties). Several safeguards would prevent a chilling effect: the existence of settled legal standards, the presumption of regularity in prosecutorial actions, and the existence of evidentiary limitations on probing the President’s motives. And historical experience confirms that no impermissible chill should exist.a. As an initial matter, the term “corruptly” sets a demanding standard. It requires a concrete showing that a person acted with an intent to obtain an “improper advantage for [him]self or someone else, inconsistent with official duty and the rights of others.” BALLENTINE’S LAW DICTIONARY 276 (3d ed. 1969); see United States v. Pasha, 797 F.3d 1122, 1132 (D.C. Cir. 2015); Aguilar, 515 U.S. at 616 (Scalia, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part). That standard parallels the President’s constitutional obligation to ensure the faithful execution of the laws. And virtually everything that the President does in the routine conduct of office will have a clear governmental purpose and will not be contrary to his official duty. Accordingly, the President has no reason to be chilled in those actions because, in virtually all instances, there will be no credible basis for suspecting a corrupt personal motive.That point is illustrated by examples of conduct that would and would not satisfy the stringent corrupt-motive standard. Direct or indirect action by the President to end a criminal investigation into his own or his family members’ conduct to protect against personal embarrassment or legal liability would constitute a core example of corruptly motivated conduct. So too would action to halt an enforcement proceeding that directly and adversely affected the President’s financial interests for the purpose of protecting those interests. In those examples,1091 A possible remedy through impeachment for abuses of power would not substitute for potential criminal liability after a President leaves office. Impeachment would remove a President from office, but would not address the underlying culpability of the conduct or serve the usual purposes of the criminal law. Indeed, the Impeachment Judgment Clause recognizes that criminal law plays an independent role in addressing an official’s conduct, distinct from the political remedy of impeachment. See U.S. CONST. ART. I, § 3, cl. 7. Impeachment is also a drastic and rarely invoked remedy, and Congress is not restricted to relying only on impeachment, rather than making criminal law applicable to a former President, as OLC has recognized. A Sitting President’s Amenability to Indictment and Criminal Prosecution, 24 Op. O.L.C. at 255 (“Recognizing an immunity from prosecution for a sitting President would not preclude such prosecution once the President’s term is over or he is otherwise removed from office by resignation or impeachment.”).Vol. 2, Page 178official power is being used for the purpose of protecting the President’s personal interests. In contrast, the President’s actions to serve political or policy interests would not qualify as corrupt. The President’s role as head of the government necessarily requires him to take into account political factors in making policy decisions that affect law-enforcement actions and proceedings. For instance, the President’s decision to curtail a law-enforcement investigation to avoid international friction would not implicate the obstruction-of-justice statutes. The criminal law does not seek to regulate the consideration of such political or policy factors in the conduct of government. And when legitimate interests animate the President’s conduct, those interests will almost invariably be readily identifiable based on objective factors. Because the President’s conduct in those instances will obviously fall outside the zone of obstruction law, no chilling concern should arise.b. There is also no reason to believe that investigations, let alone prosecutions, would occur except in highly unusual circumstances when a credible factual basis exists to believe that obstruction occurred. Prosecutorial action enjoys a presumption of regularity: absent “clear evidence to the contrary, courts presume that [prosecutors] have properly discharged their official duties.” Armstrong, 517 U.S. at 464 (quoting United States v. Chemical Foundation, Inc., 272 U.S. 1, 14–15 (1926)). The presumption of prosecutorial regularity would provide even greater protection to the President than exists in routine cases given the prominence and sensitivity of any matter involving the President and the likelihood that such matters will be subject to thorough and careful review at the most senior levels of the Department of Justice. Under OLC’s opinion that a sitting President is entitled to immunity from indictment, only a successor Administration would be able to prosecute a former President. But that consideration does not suggest that a President would have any basis for fearing abusive investigations or prosecutions after leaving office. There are “obvious political checks” against initiating a baseless investigation or prosecution of a former President. See Administrator of General Services, 433 U.S. at 448 (considering political checks in separation-of-powers analysis). And the Attorney General holds “the power to conduct the criminal litigation of the United States Government,” United States v. Nixon, 418 U.S. at 694 (citing 28 U.S.C. § 516), which provides a strong institutional safeguard against politicized investigations or prosecutions. 10921092 Similar institutional safeguards protect Department of Justice officers and line prosecutors against unfounded investigations into prosecutorial acts. Prosecutors are generally barred from participating in matters implicating their personal interests, see 28 C.F.R. § 45.2, and are instructed not to be influenced by their “own professional or personal circumstances,” Justice Manual § 9-27.260, so prosecutors would not frequently be in a position to take action that could be perceived as corrupt and personally motivated. And if such cases arise, criminal investigation would be conducted by responsible officials at the Department of Justice, who can be presumed to refrain from pursuing an investigation absent a credible factual basis. Those facts distinguish the criminal context from the common-law rule of prosecutorial immunity, which protects against the threat of suit by “a defendant [who] often will transform his resentment at being prosecuted into the ascription of improper and malicious actions.” Imbler v. Pachtman, 424 U.S. 409, 425 (1976). As the Supreme Court has noted, the existence of civil immunity does not justify criminal immunity. See O’shea v. Littleton, 414 U.S. 488, 503 (1974) (“Whatever may be the case with respect to civil liability generally, ... we have never held that the performance of the duties of judicial, legislative, or executive officers, requires or contemplates the immunization of otherwise criminal deprivation of constitutional rights.”) (citations omitted).Vol. 2, Page 179These considerations distinguish the Supreme Court’s holding in Nixon v. Fitzgerald that, in part because inquiries into the President’s motives would be “highly intrusive,” the President is absolutely immune from private civil damages actions based on his official conduct. 457 U.S. at 756-757. As Fitzgerald recognized, “there is a lesser public interest in actions for civil damages than, for example, in criminal prosecutions.” Fitzgerald, 457 U.S. at 754 n.37; see Cheney, 542 U.S. at 384. And private actions are not subject to the institutional protections of an action under the supervision of the Attorney General and subject to a presumption of regularity. Armstrong, 517 U.S. at 464.c. In the rare cases in which a substantial and credible basis justifies conducting an investigation of the President, the process of examining his motivations to determine whether he acted for a corrupt purpose need not have a chilling effect. Ascertaining the President’s motivations would turn on any explanation he provided to justify his actions, the advice he received, the circumstances surrounding the actions, and the regularity or irregularity of the process he employed to make decisions. But grand juries and courts would not have automatic access to confidential presidential communications on those matters; rather, they could be presented in official proceedings only on a showing of sufficient need. Nixon, 418 U.S. at 712; In re Sealed Case, 121 F.3d 729, 754, 756-757 (D.C. Cir. 1997); see also Administrator of General Services, 433 U.S. at 448-449 (former President can invoke presidential communications privilege, although successor’s failure to support the claim “detracts from [its] weight”).In any event, probing the President’s intent in a criminal matter is unquestionably constitutional in at least one context: the offense of bribery turns on the corrupt intent to receive a thing of value in return for being influenced in official action. 18 U.S.C. § 201(b)(2). There can be no serious argument against the President’s potential criminal liability for bribery offenses, notwithstanding the need to ascertain his purpose and intent. See U.S. CONST. ART. I, § 3; ART. II, § 4; see also Application of 28 U.S.C. § 458 to Presidential Appointments of Federal Judges, 19 Op. O.L.C. at 357 n.11 (“Application of § 201[to the President] raises no separation of powers issue, let alone a serious one.”).d. Finally, history provides no reason to believe that any asserted chilling effect justifies exempting the President from the obstruction laws. As a historical matter, Presidents have very seldom been the subjects of grand jury investigations. And it is rarer still for circumstances to raise even the possibility of a corrupt personal motive for arguably obstructive action through the President’s use of official power. Accordingly, the President’s conduct of office should not be chilled based on hypothetical concerns about the possible application of a corrupt-motive standard in this context.* * *In sum, contrary to the position taken by the President’s counsel, we concluded that, in light of the Supreme Court precedent governing separation-of-powers issues, we had a valid basis for investigating the conduct at issue in this report. In our view, the application of the obstruction statutes would not impermissibly burden the President’s performance of his Article II function to supervise prosecutorial conduct or to remove inferior law-enforcement officers. And the protection of the criminal justice system from corrupt acts by any person—including the President—accords with the fundamental principle of our government that “[n]o [person] in thisVol. 2, Page 180country is so high that he is above the law.” United States v. Lee, 106 U.S. 196, 220 (1882); see also Clinton v. Jones, 520 U.S. at 697; United States v. Nixon, supra.Vol. 2, Page 181Because we determined not to make a traditional prosecutorial judgment, we did not draw ultimate conclusions about the President’s conduct. The evidence we obtained about the President’s actions and intent presents difficult issues that would need to be resolved if we were making a traditional prosecutorial judgment. At the same time, if we had confidence after a thorough investigation of the facts that the President clearly did not commit obstruction of justice, we would so state1. Based on the facts and the applicable legal standards, we are unable to reach that judgment. Accordingly, while this report does not conclude that the President committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him.Vol. 2, Page 182Appendix ABy virtue of the authority vested in me as Acting Attorney General, including 28 U.S.C. S8 509, 510, and 515, in order to discharge my responsibility to provide supervision and management of the Department of Justice, and to ensure a full and thorough investigation of the Russian government’s efforts to interfere in the 2016 presidential election, I hereby order as follows:Appendix A-1Appendix BThe following glossary contains names and brief descriptions of individuals and entities referenced in the two volumes of this report. It is not intended to be comprehensive and is intended only to assist a reader in the reading the rest of the report.Appendix B-1Appendix B-2Appendix B-3Appendix B-4■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Appendix B-5Appendix B-6■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Appendix B-7Appendix B-8Appendix B-9■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Appendix B-10Appendix B-11Appendix B-12Appendix B-13Appendix B-14Appendix CThe President provided written responses through his personal counsel to questions submitted to him by the Special Counsel’s Office. We first explain the process that led to the submission of written questions and then attach the President’s responses.Beginning in December 2017, this Office sought for more than a year to interview the President on topics relevant to both Russian-election interference and obstruction-of-justice. We advised counsel that the President was a “subject” of the investigation under the definition of the Justice Manual—“a person whose conduct is within the scope of the grand jury’s investigation.” Justice Manual &amp; 9-11.151 (2018). We also advised counsel that “[a]n interview with the President is vital to our investigation” and that this Office had “carefully considered the constitutional and other arguments raised by ... counsel, and they d[id] not provide us with reason to forgo seeking an interview.” 1 We additionally stated that “it is in the interest of the Presidency and the public for an interview to take place” and offered “numerous accommodations to aid the President’s preparation and avoid surprise."2 After extensive discussions with the Department of Justice about the Special Counsel’s objective of securing the President’s testimony, these accommodations included the submissions of written questions to the President on certain Russia-related topics.3We received the President’s written responses in late November 2018.4 In December 2018, we informed counsel of the insufficiency of those responses in several respects.5 We noted, among other things, that the President stated on more than 30 occasions that he “does not recall’ or ‘remember’ or have an ‘independent recollection’” of information called for by the questions.6 Other answers were “incomplete or imprecise."7 The written responses, we informed counsel, “demonstrate the inadequacy of the written format, as we have had no opportunity to ask follow-up questions that would ensure complete answers and potentially refresh your client’s recollection or clarify the extent or nature of his lack of recollection.”8 We again requested an in-person interview, limited to certain topics, advising the President’s counsel that “[t]his is the President’s1 5/16/18 Letter, Special Counsel to the President’s Personal Counsel, at 1.2 5/16/18 Letter, Special Counsels’s Office to the President’s Personal Counsel, at 1; see 7/30/18 Letter, Special Counsel’s Office to the President’s Personal Counsel, at 1 (describing accommodations).3 Letter, Special Counsel’s Office to the President’s Personal Counsel, at 1 (submitting written questions).4 11/20/18 Letter, President’s Personal Counsel to the Special Counsel’s Office (transmitting written responses of Donald J. Trump).5 12/3/18 Letter, Special Counsel’s Office to the President’s Personal Counsel, at 3.6 12/3/18 Letter, Special Counsel’s Office to the President’s Personal Counsel, at 3.7 12/3/18 Letter, Special Counsel’s Office to the President’s Personal Counsel, at 3; see (noting, “for example,” that the President “did not answer whether he had at any time directed or suggested that discussions about the Trump Moscow Project should cease ... but he has since made public comments about that topic").8 12/3/18 Letter, Special Counsel’s Office to the President’s Personal Counsel, at 3.Appendix C-1opportunity to voluntarily provide us with information for us to evaluate in the context of all of the evidence we have gathered."9 The President declined.10■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■11 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■12Recognizing that the President would not be interviewed voluntarily, we considered whether to issue a subpoena for his testimony. We viewed the written answers to be inadequate. But at that point, our investigation had made significant progress and had produced substantial evidence for our report. We thus weighed the costs of potentially lengthy constitutional litigation, with resulting delay in finishing our investigation, against the anticipated benefits for our investigation and report. As explained in Volume II, Section II.B., we determined that the substantial quantity of information we had obtained from other sources allowed us to draw relevant factual conclusions on intent and credibility, which are often inferred from circumstantial evidence and assessed without direct testimony from the subject of the investigation.9 12/3/18 Letter, Special Counsel to the President’s Personal Counsel.1012/12/18 Letter, President’s Personal Counsel to the Special Counsel’s Office, at 2.11 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■12 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Appendix C-2Appendix C-3Appendix C-4Appendix C-5Appendix C-6Appendix C-7Appendix C-8Appendix C-9Appendix C-10Appendix C-11Appendix C-12I have no recollection of learning at the time that Donald Trump, Jr., Paul Manafort, or Jared Kushner was considering participating in a meeting in June 2016 concerning potentially negative information about Hillary Clinton. Nor do I recall learning during the campaign that the June 9, 2016 meeting had taken place, that the referenced emails existed, or that Donald J. Trump, Jr., had other communications with Emin Agalarov or Robert Goldstone between June 3, 2016 and June 9, 2016.I have no independent recollection of what portion of these four days in June of 2016 I spent in Trump Tower. This was one of many busy months during a fast-paced campaign, as the primary season was ending and we were preparing for the general election campaign.I am now aware that my Campaign’s calendar indicates that I was in New York City from June 6 -9, 2016. Calendars kept in my Trump Tower office reflect that I had various calls and meetings scheduled for each of these days. While those calls and meetings may or may not actually have taken place, they do indicate that I was in Trump Tower during a portion of each of these working days, and I have no reason to doubt that I was. When I was in New York City, I stayed at my Trump Tower apartment.My Trump Organization desk calendar also reflects that I was outside Trump Tower during portions of these days. The June 7, 2016 calendar indicates I was scheduled to leave Trump Tower in the early evening for Westchester where I gave remarks after winning the California, New Jersey, New Mexico, Montana, and South Dakota Republican primaries held that day. The June 8, 2016 calendar indicates a scheduled departure in late afternoon to attend a ceremony at my son’s school. The June 9, 2016 calendar indicates I was scheduled to attend midday meetings and a fundraising luncheon at the Four Seasons Hotel. At this point, I do not remember on what dates these events occurred, but I do not currently have a reason to doubt that they took place as scheduled on my calendar.Widely available media reports, including television footage, also shed light on my activities during these days. For example, I am aware that my June 7, 2016 victory remarks at the TrumpAppendix C-13National Golf Club in Briarcliff Manor, New York, were recorded and published by the media. I remember winning those primaries and generally recall delivering remarks that evening.At this point in time, I do not remember whether I spoke or met with Donald Trump, Jr., Paul Manafort, or Jared Kushner on June 9, 2016. My desk calendar indicates I was scheduled to meet with Paul Manafort on the morning of June 9, but I do not recall if that meeting took place. It was more than two years ago, at a time when I had many calls and interactions daily.I have no independent recollection of any communications I had with the Agalarov family or anyone I understood to be a representative of the Agalarov family after June 3, 2016 and before the end of the campaign. While preparing to respond to these questions, I have become aware of written communications with the Agalarovs during the campaign that were sent, received, and largely authored by my staff and which I understand have already been produced to you.In general, the documents include congratulatory letters on my campaign victories, emails about a painting Emin and Aras Agalarov arranged to have delivered to Trump Tower as a birthday present, and emails regarding delivery of a book written by Aras Agalarov. The documents reflect that the deliveries were screened by the Secret Service.I do not recall being aware during the campaign of communications between Donald Trump, Jr., Paul Manafort, or Jared Kushner and any member or representative of the Agalarov family, Robert Goldstone, Natalia Veselnitskaya (whose name I was not familiar with), or anyone I understood to be a Russian official. Response to Question I, Part (g) In remarks I delivered the night I won the California, New Jersey, New Mexico, Montana, and South Dakota Republican primaries, I said, “I am going to give a major speech on probably Monday of next week and we’re going to be discussing all of the things that have taken place with the Clintons.” In general, I expected to give a speech referencing the publicly available, negative information about the Clintons, including, for example, Mrs. Clinton’s failed policies, the Clintons’ use of the State Department to further their interests and the interests of the Clinton Foundation, Mrs. Clinton’s improper use of a private server for State Department business, the destruction of 33,000 emails on that server, and Mrs. Clinton’s temperamental unsuitability for the office of President.In the course of preparing to respond to your questions, I have become aware that the Campaign documents already produced to you reflect the drafting, evolution, and sources of information for the speech I expected to give “probably” on the Monday following my June 7, 2016 comments. These documents generally show that the text of the speech was initially drafted by Campaign staffAppendix C-14with input from various outside advisors and was based on publicly available material, including, in particular, information from the book Clinton Cash by Peter Schweizer. The Pulse Nightclub terrorist attack took place in the early morning hours of Sunday, June 12, 2016.In light of that tragedy, I gave a speech directed more specifically to national security and terrorism than to the Clintons. That speech was delivered at the Saint Anselm College Institute of Politics in Manchester, New Hampshire, and, as reported, opened with the following:This was going to be a speech on Hillary Clinton and how bad a President, especially in these times of Radical Islamic Terrorism, she would be. Even her former Secret Service Agent, who has seen her under pressure and in times of stress, has stated that she lacks the temperament and integrity to be president. There will be plenty of opportunity to discuss these important issues at a later time, and I will deliver that speech soon. But today there is only one thing to discuss: the growing threat of terrorism inside of our borders.I continued to speak about Mrs. Clinton’s failings throughout the campaign, using the information prepared for inclusion in the speech to which I referred on June 7, 2016.I have no recollection of being told during the campaign that Vladimir Putin or the Russian government “supported” my candidacy or “opposed” the candidacy of Hillary Clinton. However, I was aware of some reports indicating that President Putin had made complimentary statements about me.I have no recollection of being told during the campaign that any foreign government or foreign leader had provided, wished to provide, or offered to provide tangible support to my campaign.Appendix C-15Appendix C-16I do not remember the date on which it was publicly reported that the DNC had been hacked, but my best recollection is that I learned of the hacking at or shortly after the time it became the subject of media reporting. I do not recall being provided any information during the campaign about the hacking of any of the named entities or individuals before it became the subject of media reporting.Appendix C-17I recall that in the months leading up to the election there was considerable media reporting about the possible hacking and release of campaign-related information and there was a lot of talk about this matter. At the time, I was generally aware of these media reports and may have discussed these issues with my campaign staff or others, but at this point in time - more than two years later - I have no recollection of any particular conversation, when it occurred, or who the participants were. Response to Question II, Part (c) I do not recall being aware during the campaign of any communications between the individuals named in Question II (c) and anyone I understood to be a representative of WikiLeaks or any of the other individuals or entities referred to in the question.I made the statement quoted in Question II (d) in jest and sarcastically, as was apparent to any objective observer. The context of the statement is evident in the full reading or viewing of the July 27, 2016 press conference, and I refer you to the publicly available transcript and video of that press conference. I do not recall having any discussion about the substance of the statement in advance of the press conference. I do not recall being told during the campaign of any efforts by Russia to infiltrate or hack the computer systems or email accounts of Hillary Clinton or her campaign prior to them becoming the subject of media reporting and I have no recollection of any particular conversation in that regard.I was in Trump Tower in New York City on October 7, 2016. I have no recollection of being told that WikiLeaks possessed or might possess emails related to John Podesta before the release of Mr. Podesta’s emails was reported by the media. Likewise, I have no recollection of being told that Roger Stone, anyone acting as an intermediary for Roger Stone, or anyone associated with my campaign had communicated with WikiLeaks on October 7, 2016.I do not recall being told during the campaign that Roger Stone or anyone associated with my campaign had discussions with any of the entities named in the question regarding the content or timing of release of hacked emails.I spoke by telephone with Roger Stone from time to time during the campaign. I have no recollection of the specifics of any conversations I had with Mr. Stone between June 1, 2016 andAppendix C-18November 8, 2016. I do not recall discussing WikiLeaks with him, nor do I recall being aware of Mr. Stone having discussed WikiLeaks with individuals associated with my campaign, although I was aware that WikiLeaks was the subject of media reporting and campaign-related discussion at the time.I do not recall having had any discussion during the campaign regarding a pardon or action to benefit Julian Assange.I do not recall being aware during the campaign of specific efforts by foreign individuals or companies to assist my campaign through the use of social media postings or the organization of rallies.Appendix C-19Sometime in 2015, Michael Cohen suggested to me the possibility of a Trump Organization project in Moscow. As I recall, Mr. Cohen described this as a proposed project of a general type we have done in the past in a variety of locations. I signed the non-binding Letter of Intent attached to your questions as Exhibit B which required no equity or expenditure on our end and was consistent with our ongoing efforts to expand into significant markets around the world. I had few conversations with Mr. Cohen on this subject. As I recall, they were brief, and they were not memorable. I was not enthused about the proposal, and I do not recall any discussion of travel to Russia in connection with it. I do not remember discussing it with anyone else at the Trump Organization, although it is possible. I do not recall being aware at the time of any communications between Mr. Cohen or Felix Sater and any Russian government official regarding the Letter of Intent. In the course of preparing to respond to your questions, I have become aware that Mr. Cohen sent an email regarding the Letter of Intent to "Mr. Peskov" at a general, public email account, which should show there was no meaningful relationship with people in power in Russia. I understand those documents already have been provided to you. I vaguely remember press inquiries and media reporting during the campaign about whether the Trump Organization had business dealings in Russia. I may have spoken with campaign staff or Trump Organization employees regarding responses to requests for information, but I have no current recollection of any particular conversation, with whom I may have spoken, when, or the substance of any conversation. As I recall, neither I nor the Trump Organization had any projects or proposed projects in Russia during the campaign other than the Letter of Intent. Appendix C-20Mr. Manafort was hired primarily because of his delegate work for prior presidential candidates, including Gerald Ford, Ronald Reagan, George H.W. Bush, and Bob Dole. I knew that Mr. Manafort had done international consulting work and, at some time before Mr. Manafort left theAppendix C-21campaign, I learned that he was somehow involved with individuals concerning Ukraine, but I do not remember the specifics of what I knew at the time.I had no knowledge of Mr. Manafort offering briefings on the progress of my campaign to an individual named Oleg Deripaska, nor do I remember being aware of Mr. Manafort or anyone else associated with my campaign sending or directing others to send internal Trump Campaign information to anyone I knew to be in Ukraine or Russia at the time or to anyone I understood to be a Ukrainian or Russian government employee or official. I do not remember Mr. Manafort communicating to me any particular positions Ukraine or Russia would want the United States to support.I do not recall being told during the campaign of efforts by Russian officials to meet with me or with senior members of my campaign. In the process of preparing to respond to these questions, I became aware that on March 17, 2016, my assistant at the Trump Organization, Rhona Graff, received an email from a Sergei Prikhodko, who identified himself as Deputy Prime Minister of the Russian Federation, Foundation Roscongress, inviting me to participate in the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum to be held in June 2016. The documents show that Ms. Graff prepared for my signature a brief response declining the invitation. I understand these documents already have been produced to you.I have no recollection of the details of what, when, or from what source I first learned about the change to the platform amendment regarding arming Ukraine, but I generally recall learning of the issue as part of media reporting. I do not recall being involved in changing the language to the amendment.My statement did not communicate any position.Appendix C-22I do not remember having been asked to attend the World Chess Championship gala, and I did not attend the event. During the course of preparing to respond to these questions, I have become aware of documents indicating that in March of 2016, the president of the World Chess Federation invited the Trump Organization to host, at Trump Tower, the 2016 World Chess Championship Match to be held in New York in November 2016. I have also become aware that in November 2016, there were press inquiries to my staff regarding whether I had plans to attend the tournament, which was not being held at Trump Tower. I understand these documents have already been provided to you.Appendix C-23Appendix DThis appendix identifies matters transferred or referred by the Special Counsel’s Office, as well as cases prosecuted by the Office that are now completed.The Special Counsel’s Office has concluded its investigation into links and coordination between the Russian government and individuals associated with the Trump Campaign. Certain matters assigned to the Office by the Acting Attorney General have not fully concluded as of the date of this report. After consultation with the Office of the Deputy Attorney General, the Office has transferred responsibility for those matters to other components of the Department of Justice and the FBI. Those transfers include:The Acting Attorney General authorized the Special Counsel to investigate, among other things, possible criminal conduct by Michael Flynn in acting as an unregistered agent for the Government of Turkey. See August 2, 2017 Memorandum from Rod J. Rosenstein to Robert S. Mueller, III. The Acting Attorney General later confirmed the Special Counsel’s authority to investigate Rafiekian and Alptekin because they may have been jointly involved” with Flynn in FARA-related crimes. See October 20, 2017 Memorandum from Associate Deputy Attorney General Scott Schools to Deputy Attorney General Rod J. Rosenstein.On December 1, 2017, Flynn pleaded guilty to an Information charging him with making false statements to the FBI about his contacts with the Russian ambassador to the United States. As part of that plea, Flynn agreed to a Statement of the Offense in which he acknowledged that the Foreign Agents Registration Act (FARA) documents he filed on March 7, 2017 “contained materially false statements and omissions.” Flynn’s plea occurred before the Special Counsel had made a final decision on whether to charge Rafiekian or Alptekin. On March 27, 2018, after consultation with the Office of the Deputy Attorney General, the Special Counsel’s Office referred the investigation of Rafiekian and Alptekin to the National Security Division (NSD) for any action it deemed appropriate. The Special Counsel’s Office determined the referral was appropriate because the investigation of Flynn had been completed, and that investigation had provided the rationale for the Office’s investigation of Rafiekian and Alptekin. At NSD’s request, the Eastern District of Virginia continued the investigation of Rafiekian and Alptekin.Appendix D-1The Acting Attorney General authorized the Special Counsel to investigate aspects of Patten’s conduct that related to another matter that was under investigation by the Office. The investigation uncovered evidence of a crime; the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Columbia handled the prosecution of Patten.The Acting Attorney General authorized the Special Counsel to investigate, among other things, crime or crimes arising out of payments Paul Manafort received from the Ukrainian government before and during the tenure of President Viktor Yanukovych. See August 2, 2017 Memorandum from Rod J. Rosenstein to Robert S. Mueller, III. The Acting Attorney General1 One defendant, Concord Management &amp; Consulting LLC, appeared through counsel and is in pre-trial litigation.Appendix D-2later confirmed the Special Counsel’s authority to investigate ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■On October 27, 2017, Paul Manafort and Richard Gates were charged in the District of Columbia with various crimes (including FARA) in connection with work they performed for Russia-backed political entities in Ukraine. On February 22, 2018, Manafort and Gates were charged in the Eastern District of Virginia with various other crimes in connection with the payments they received for work performed for Russia-backed political entities in Ukraine. During the course of its ■■■■■■■■■ the Special Counsel’s Office developed substantial evidence with respect to individuals and entities that wer ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ .2 On February 23, 2018, Gates pleaded guilty in the District of Columbia to a multi-object conspiracy and to making false statements; the remaining charges against Gates were dismissed. Thereafter, in consultation with the Office of the Deputy Attorney General, the Special Counsel’s Office closed the ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ and referred them ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ for further investigation as it deemed appropriate. The Office based its decision to close those matters on its mandate, the indictments of Manafort, Gates’s plea, and its determination as to how best to allocate its resources, among other reasons; ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ At ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ continued the investigation of those closed matters.11.■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■(Investigation ongoing)During the course of the investigation, the Office periodically identified evidence of potential criminal activity that was outside the scope of the Special Counsel’s jurisdiction established by the Acting Attorney General. After consultation with the Office of the Deputy Attorney General, the Office referred that evidence to appropriate law enforcement authorities, principally other components of the Department of Justice and the FBI. Those referrals, listed2 ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■3 Manafort was ultimately convicted at trial in the Eastern District of Virginia and pleaded guilty in the District of Columbia. See Vol. I, Section IV.A.8. The trial and plea happened after the transfer decision described here.Appendix D-3alphabetically by subject, are summarized below.1. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■2. Michael CohenDuring the course of the investigation, the Special Counsel’s Office uncovered evidence of potential wire fraud and FECA violations pertaining to Michael Cohen. That evidence was referred to the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York and the FBI’s New York Field Office.3. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■4. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■5. Gregory Craig ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher &amp; Flom LLP During the course of the FARA investigation of Paul Manafort and Rick Gates, the Special Counsel’s Office uncovered evidence of potential FARA violations pertaining to ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ Gregory Craig, Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher &amp; Flom LLP (Skadden), and their work on behalf of the government of Ukraine.After consultation with the NSD, the evidence regarding Craig ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ was referred to NSD, and NSD elected to partner with the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York and the FBI’s New York Field Office. NSD later elected to partner on the Craig matter with the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Columbia. NSD retained and handled issues relating to Skadden itself.6. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Appendix D-4■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■7. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■8. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■9. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■10. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■11. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■12. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■13. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■Appendix D-5■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■14. ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■In three cases prosecuted by the Special Counsel’s Office, the defendants have completed or are about to complete their terms of imprisonment. Because no further proceedings are likely in any case, responsibility for them has not been transferred to any other office or component.Appendix D-6Produced by Sarah Almukhtar, Gray Beltran, Scott Blumenthal, Weiyi Cai, Keith Collins, Annie Daniel, Tiff Fehr, Troy Griggs, Jon Huang, Simone Landon, Jasmine C. Lee, Rebecca Lieberman, Allison McCann, Blacki Migliozzi, Haeyoun Park, Jaymin Patel, Scott Reinhard, Rachel Shorey, Michael Strickland, Rumsey Taylor, Josh Williams and Karen Yourish.

Supported byWhite House MemoBy Peter BakerWASHINGTON — President Trump has boasted at various points that he has “one of the great memories of all time” or even “the world’s greatest memory.”But the world’s greatest memory failed him repeatedly when prosecutors asked him those classic questions from decades of presidential scandals — what did he know and when did he know it?Mr. Trump refused for more than a year to be interviewed by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, and in the end agreed to respond to questions only in writing. Even then, with the help of his lawyers, the president found it difficult to summon details from his presidential campaign in 2016 that might shed light on what happened.More than 30 times, he told the prosecutors that he had no memory of what they were asking about, employing several formulations to make the same point.“I do not remember.”“I do not recall.”“I have no recollection.”“I have no independent recollection.”“I have no current recollection.”He did not remember learning about a Trump Tower meeting held in June 2016 by his son, son-in-law and campaign chairman with visiting Russians promising “dirt” on Hillary Clinton from the Russian government. He did not remember being told in advance of Russian hacking of Democratic emails before the stolen messages were posted online.He did not remember any particular conversations with Roger J. Stone Jr., a longtime adviser, during the last months of the campaign, much less discussions with him about WikiLeaks. He did not remember discussing a possible trip to Russia to promote a proposed tower project in Moscow. He did not remember an invitation from Russia’s deputy prime minister to attend an economic forum in St. Petersburg.A fuzzy memory is not exactly unusual for any president given how much they typically juggle, much less a 72-year-old president who is the oldest ever elected for the first time. But Mr. Mueller’s prosecutors considered his memory lapses unsatisfying and pressed Mr. Trump’s lawyer again for an in-person interview, to no avail.“The written responses, we informed counsel, ‘demonstrate the inadequacy of the written format, as we have had no opportunity to ask follow-up questions that would ensure complete answers and potentially refresh your client’s recollection or clarify the extent or nature of his lack of recollection,’” Mr. Mueller’s report said.Jay Sekulow, one of Mr. Trump’s private lawyers, defended his client’s answers on Friday. “The president responded to the questions,” he said. “They are answers, not speculations.”Lawyers often advise clients to avoid definitive answers if they are not sure about a question and to couch denials by saying they cannot recall an event lest contrary evidence emerge. A veteran of litigation, Mr. Trump rarely lacks for certainty in his public statements on camera, but has shown more caution when under oath.He said, “I don’t remember” 24 times during a 2012 deposition in a lawsuit involving his now-defunct Trump University and 35 times during another deposition related to the university suit three years later, not counting 10 more times in the two interviews that he said, “I don’t recall” or “Can’t remember.” (He eventually settled the legal claims for $25 million.)Prosecutors said such selective memory tended to make them suspicious.“It’s always a red flag when a witness appears to selectively forget the events most likely to be damning,” said Dwight C. Holton, who spent 14 years as a prosecutor, most recently as United States attorney in Oregon.“And when you have a witness who repeatedly and publicly thumps his chest about how great his memory is, then all of a sudden he has sudden massive memory loss — well, let’s just say that’s a target I’d like to cross-examine in front of a jury.”Barbara L. McQuade, a former United States attorney in Michigan, said the president’s answers “demonstrate why written answers are a poor substitute for an in-person interview.”During a face-to-face encounter, she said, prosecutors can refresh a witness’s memory by providing additional details or showing him documents. They can also come to a judgment based on body language.“I have not dealt with a witness who has claimed not to remember facts as many times as Trump did, but it is impossible to read a witness’s mind to know whether he is telling the truth,” she said. “Trump’s refusal to participate in an interview,” she added, “hampered Mueller’s investigation and contradicts” the assertion by Attorney General William P. Barr that the president had cooperated fully.But it may have saved him from a worse outcome. Mr. Mueller began asking Mr. Trump for an interview in December 2017 only to be put off for months. The president’s lawyers opposed the idea, worried that Mr. Trump, who has a documented history of making untrue assertions publicly, would testify falsely and walk into what they deemed a perjury trap.Bowing to the demands of the president’s lawyers, Mr. Mueller agreed to submit written questions, and only about contacts with Russia before Mr. Trump took office, not about potential obstruction of justice once he entered the White House. When the answers came back in November, they were so “incomplete or imprecise,” the report said, that Mr. Mueller complained to the president’s legal team about “the insufficiency of those responses.”The answers Mr. Trump provided sounded more like lawyer speak than the blunt-talking president’s usual colorful language. They included phrases like “named entities or individuals” and “tangible support” and “no meaningful relationship.”It may be hard to imagine Mr. Trump saying or writing this: “In the course of preparing to respond to your questions, I have become aware that the campaign documents already produced to you reflect the drafting, evolution and sources of information for the speech I expected to give ‘probably’ on the Monday following my June 7, 2016, comments.”But if his memory were hazy in many cases, it was crystal clear in at least one instance. Asked about a specific date that June, Mr. Trump noted that he had prevailed in Republican nomination contests in California, New Jersey, New Mexico, Montana and South Dakota that day. “I remember winning those primaries,” he wrote.After Mr. Mueller pressed again for an in-person interview in December, Mr. Trump’s lawyers refused again. The special counsel opted not to seek a subpoena to force the president to talk, unlike Ken Starr, the independent counsel who in 1998 subpoenaed President Bill Clinton and withdrew the order only after the president’s legal team agreed to live testimony.Mr. Mueller said he had chosen not to press the issue because he had already “made significant progress” and a court fight to enforce a subpoena against a sitting president, even if successful, could prolong the investigation. “We thus weighed the costs of potentially lengthy constitutional litigation, with resulting delay in finishing our investigation,” the report said, “against the anticipated benefits for our investigation and report.”Critics of Mr. Trump have questioned that decision, saying the special counsel should have held out for a formal interview. As it happened, by sticking to carefully scripted written answers, the president avoided any charge that he had misled investigators.That is an outcome neither he nor Mr. Mueller is likely to forget.Follow Peter Baker on Twitter: @peterbakernyt.

Supported byBy Eileen SullivanAfter weeks of combing through the special counsel report on the investigation into Russia’s election interference, including whether any Trump associates coordinated with the Russians and whether President Trump tried to obstruct justice, Attorney General William P. Barr released a redacted version of the more than 400-page document on Thursday.Before releasing the report, Mr. Barr spoke at a news conference Thursday morning and delivered a defense of the president, repeating throughout his remarks that the special counsel found no evidence of conspiracy or collusion between the Trump campaign and the Russians.Democrats have said Mr. Barr’s decision to deliver remarks before lawmakers or the public had a chance to read the report gave the attorney general a head start on shaping the narrative of the conclusions of the special counsel team, led by Robert S. Mueller III, and delivering an account favorable to Mr. Trump.“In other words, there was no evidence of the Trump campaign collusion with the Russian government’s hacking,” Mr. Barr said on Thursday.Here are several things to know about the man in control of what the public can see in one of the most anticipated government documents in history.William Pelham Barr served as an attorney general during the George Bush administration from 1991 to 1993, meaning he has twice sworn to uphold the Constitution, which is not considered to be a pledge of loyalty to the president.Mr. Barr replaced former Attorney General Jeff Sessions, whom Mr. Trump publicly criticized and harangued after Mr. Sessions recused himself from overseeing the government’s Russia investigation. Mr. Sessions was ultimately forced to resign because Mr. Trump found him to be disloyal, largely related to that recusal.Typically, the attorney general maintains an independence from the White House, but Mr. Trump has demonstrated that is not what he wants from his top law enforcement official.On Thursday, Mr. Trump appeared to be pleased with Mr. Barr’s handling of the report, tweeting a meme that said, “No Collusion. No Obstruction. For the haters and the radical left Democrats — Game Over.”He later referred to the investigation as a hoax during remarks at an event to recognize wounded soldiers. “This should never happen to another president again, this hoax,” he said.As Mr. Barr defended the president, he said the special counsel’s considerations for whether the president obstructed justice must be taken in context.“President Trump faced an unprecedented situation. As he entered into office and sought to perform his responsibilities as president, federal agents and prosecutors were scrutinizing his conduct before and after taking office and the conduct of some of his associates,” Mr. Barr said on Thursday morning, before his department publicly released the report.“At the same time there was relentless speculation in the news media about the president’s personal culpability, yet as he said from the beginning, there was, in fact, no collusion.”The Constitution, according to Mr. Barr’s interpretation, does not consider it a crime for the president to wield his executive powers corruptly, for instance by firing a subordinate or by pardoning a loyal aide. It is an interpretation favorable to Mr. Trump.“He alone is the executive branch,” Mr. Barr wrote in an unsolicited June 8, 2018 memo. “As such, he is the sole repository of all Executive powers conferred by the Constitution.” The document appeared to criticize Mr. Mueller’s inquiry into whether Mr. Trump had obstructed justice, and months later, when Mr. Barr received the Mueller report, which did not take a position on whether the president obstructed justice, Mr. Barr and Deputy Attorney General Rod J. Rosenstein concluded Mr. Trump did no such thing.“There is substantial evidence to show that the president was frustrated and angered by his sincere belief that the investigation was undermining his presidency, propelled by his political opponents and fueled by illegal leaks,” Mr. Barr said on Thursday, in what appeared to be a defense of Mr. Trump’s relentless attacks on his political opponents, his own Justice Department and the special counsel’s investigation.“Nonetheless, the White House fully cooperated with the special counsel’s investigation, providing unfettered access to campaign and White House documents, directing senior aides to testify freely and asserting no privilege claims. And At the same time the president took no act that, in fact, deprived the special counsel of the documents and witnesses necessary to complete his investigation.Mr. Barr said during his confirmation hearing that he was approached, in June 2017, by an administration official who said he was looking for attorneys to add to the president’s defense team. Mr. Barr said he told the administration official he could not take on that role at the time, but he agreed to meet with Mr. Trump the next day.“It was a very brief meeting where essentially the president wanted to know — he said, ‘Oh, you know Bob Mueller. How well do you know Bob Mueller?’” Mr. Barr told senators during his January confirmation hearing. He left his phone number with the president at the end of the meeting. Mr. Barr added: “I didn’t hear — hear from him until, you know, later, but about something different, which was the attorney general position.”[Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.]Mr. Barr and Mr. Mueller have been friends for 30 years, dating back to their early days at the Justice Department, Mr. Barr told lawmakers in January. He said he applauded the appointment of Mr. Mueller to take over the Russia investigation. And even though he wrote an unsolicited memo that appeared to criticize parts of Mr. Mueller’s investigation, Mr. Barr said he expected their friendship to be intact after the investigation was over. (He also said he was not criticizing Mr. Mueller in his memo).Their families are friends, as well, Mr. Barr has said. Their wives went to Bible study together, and Mr. Mueller has been a guest at two of Mr. Barr’s daughters’s weddings.But some members of Mr. Mueller’s team told associates that Mr. Barr’s four-page letter in March did not adequately describe the conclusions of the special counsel.The special counsel’s investigators wrote multiple summaries of the dense report, and some members of the team thought Mr. Barr should have included them in his letter, which cited just a few partial quotes from the report.Last week, Mr. Barr said he would review the F.B.I.’s investigation of the Trump campaign’s ties to Russia, which would include a review of whether there was any improper “spying” by American intelligence agencies on the campaign’s associates, something Mr. Trump has claimed for more than two years.Before he worked for Mr. Trump, Mr. Barr had defended the president’s calls for new investigations into his former Democratic opponent Hillary Clinton. In November 2017, Mr. Barr said there was “nothing inherently wrong about a president calling for an investigation.” He cautioned that such an investigation should only be launched if the “matter warrants investigation,” and not just because Mr. Trump wanted it.The attorney general at the time, Jeff Sessions, assigned a group of senior Justice Department lawyers to look into some of the accusations and report back on whether a special counsel should be appointed to pursue an inquiry. The Justice Department has not opened one.

Supported byThe Justice Department released a redacted version of the special counsel’s report on Thursday. Times reporters uncovered the biggest findings and shared excerpts and analysis.After a sweeping, 22-month investigation, Robert S. Mueller III found there was insufficient evidence to establish that President Trump or his associates engaged in a criminal conspiracy with Russia to disrupt the 2016 election, despite numerous contacts between his campaign and Russians. Mr. Mueller’s report also detailed the president’s efforts to thwart the investigation, and the investigators debated whether the episodes amounted to criminal obstruction of justice. Read more about the report’s findings or read the full 448-page report.POSTED AT 1:24 PMVol II, Page 77: The President and White House aides initially advanced a pretextual reason to the press and the public for Comey’s termination … The initial reliance on a pretextual justification could support an inference that the President had concerns about providing the real reason for the firing, although the evidence does not resolve whether those concerns were personal, political, or both.One of the biggest questions of the past two years — something that fueled the news coverage, the federal investigation and congressional scrutiny — is why so many people around Mr. Trump lied, misled and changed their stories. People hoping that Mr. Mueller would resolve those questions will be disappointed. Time and again, Mr. Mueller seems as confused as anyone else about the motives.— Matt ApuzzoPOSTED AT 1:05 PMVol. II, Page 153: With regard to Cohen’s false statements to Congress, while there is evidence, described below, that the President knew Cohen provided false testimony to Congress about the Trump Tower Moscow project, the evidence available to us does not establish that the President directed or aided Cohen’s false testimony.Mr. Cohen lied to Congress about the Trump Organization’s business dealings with Russia, prompting accusations that Mr. Trump had instructed him to lie. Mr. Mueller’s report paints a far murkier view. Investigators found evidence that Mr. Trump’s legal team advised Mr. Cohen to keep his statements to Congress “short and tight, not elaborate, stay on message, and not contradict the President.” Mr. Mueller made no finding on what, if any, role Mr. Trump played in that effort.— Matt ApuzzoPOSTED AT 1:02 PMVol. II, Page 157: The incidents were often carried out through one-on-one meetings in which the President sought to use his official power outside of usual channels. These actions ranged from efforts to remove the Special Counsel and to reverse the effect of the Attorney General’s recusal; to the attempted use of official power to limit the scope of the investigation; to direct and indirect contacts with witnesses with the potential to influence their testimony. Viewing the acts collectively can help to illuminate their significance.Many of the incidents Mr. Mueller examined for possible obstruction of justice had been the subject of public news reports and dismissed by Mr. Trump and his allies over the last two years. But Mr. Mueller tries to weave them together into a pattern of behavior that has implications for understanding Mr. Trump’s actions and intent.— Nicholas FandosPOSTED AT 12:54 PMVol. II, Page 27: Comey’s briefing included the Steele reporting’s unverified allegation that the Russians had compromising tapes of the President involving conduct when he was a private citizen during a 2013 trip to Moscow for the Miss Universe Pageant. During the 2016 presidential campaign, a similar claim may have reached candidate Trump. On October 30, 2016, Michael Cohen received a text from Russian businessman Giorgi Rtskhiladze that said, “Stopped flow of tapes from Russia but not sure if there’s anything else. Just so you know ....” 10/30/16 Text Message, Rtskhiladze to Cohen. Rtskhiladze said “tapes” referred to compromising tapes of Trump rumored to be held by persons associated with the Russian real estate conglomerate Crocus Group, which had helped host the 2013 Miss Universe contest in Russia... Rtskhiladze said he was told the tapes were fake, but he did not communicate that to Cohen.In a footnote of the report, a Russian businessman is quoted as stating via text message that he had “stopped flow” of possibly fake, compromising tapes of Mr. Trump’s conduct in Russia. This offers a new detail on the sensational question of whether, as claimed in the unverified dossier compiled by a former British intelligence agent, Mr. Trump was caught with prostitutes on video in his Moscow hotel in 2013. But the report notes that the Russian businessman who bragged during the campaign that he had “stopped” such tapes evidently later said he believed the tapes in question were “fake.”— Scott ShanePOSTED AT 12:52 PMVol. II, Page 177: Accordingly, based on the analysis above, we were not persuaded by the argument that the President has blanket constitutional immunity to engage in acts that would corruptly obstruct justice through the exercise of otherwise-valid Article II powers protecting the integrity of its own proceedings and the proceedings of Article III courts and grand juries.Mr. Mueller dissected and rejected the argument that it would be unconstitutional to apply obstruction of justice laws to the president’s use of his executive powers like firing a subordinate or supervising the Justice Department’s opening and closing of cases. This repudiated an argument laid out not only by Mr. Trump’s lawyers, but also by Attorney General William P. Barr in an unsolicited, 19-page memo he wrote for the administration before the president appointed him to lead the Justice Department. That means Mr. Mueller left open the possibility of charging Mr. Trump with obstruction after he is no longer president – a possibility that Mr. Barr has tried to take off the table.— Charlie SavagePOSTED AT 12:46 PMVol. II, Page 182: If we had confidence after a thorough investigation of the facts that the president clearly did not commit obstruction of justice, we would so state.Whether Mr. Trump engaged in obstruction of justice involves complicated legal and constitutional issues that do not apply to ordinary citizens, but the report explicitly says that the inquiry did not clear the president. Discussing whether the president could have obstructed justice while exercising his constitutional authority, such as by firing James B. Comey as the director of the F.B.I., the report notes that Congress is empowered to step in to stop the corrupt use of presidential power. Democrats in Congress will surely seize on that language as justification for their burgeoning inquiries.— Sharon LaFranierePOSTED AT 12:36 PMVol. II, Page 139: In early May 2017, Cohen received requests from Congress to provide testimony and documents in connection with congressional investigations of Russian interference in the 2016 election. At that time, Cohen understood Congress’s interest in him to be focused on the allegations in the Steele reporting concerning a meeting Cohen allegedly had with Russian officials in Prague during the campaign. Cohen had never traveled to Prague and was not concerned about those allegations, which he believed were provably false. On May 18, 2017, Cohen met with the President to discuss the request from Congress, and the President instructed Cohen that he should cooperate because there was nothing there.This further undercuts explosive information in the dossier compiled by Christopher Steele, the former British spy.— Adam GoldmanPOSTED AT 12:27 PMVol. I, Pages 53-54: [REDACTED] Manafort also [REDACTED] wanted to be kept apprised of any developments with WikiLeaks and separately told Gates to keep in touch [REDACTED] about future WikiLeaks releases. According to Gates, by the late summer of 2016, the Trump Campaign was planning a press strategy, a communications campaign, and messaging based on the possible release of Clinton emails by WikiLeaks. [REDACTED] while Trump and Gates were driving to LaGuardia Airport. [REDACTED], shortly after the call candidate Trump told Gates that more releases of damaging information would be coming. [REDACTED]Mr. Barr said this type of material must be kept secret because it was relevant to a continuing criminal matter. That is probably, at a minimum, the indictment of the former Trump adviser Roger Stone Jr., who is charged with lying about his participation in such efforts. But this raises a larger question: whether the hidden evidence shows that the Trump campaign conspired with WikiLeaks. At his news conference on Thursday morning, Mr. Barr said any campaign collusion with WikiLeaks could not amount to a criminal conspiracy because WikiLeaks’ publication of the emails was not a crime so long as it did not help Russia hacking them.—Charlie SavagePOSTED AT 12:25 PMVol. II, Page D-3: During the course of the investigation, the Office periodically identified evidence of potential criminal activity that was outside the scope of the Special Counsel’s jurisdiction established by the Acting Attorney General. After consultation with the Office of the Deputy Attorney General, the Office referred that evidence to appropriate law enforcement authorities, principally other components of the Department of Justice and the FBI.Twelve of those referrals remain secret. Two others have been made public, including prosecutions involving Mr. Trump’s former personal lawyer, Michael D. Cohen, and Gregory B. Craig, a White House counsel in the Obama administration.— Adam GoldmanPOSTED AT 12:20 PMVol. II, Page 5-6: In early 2018, the press reported that the president had directed McGahn to have the special counsel removed in June 2017 and that McGahn had threatened to resign rather than carry out the order. The president reacted to the news stories by directing White House officials to tell McGahn to dispute the story and to create a record stating he had not been ordered to have the special counsel removed. McGahn told those officials that the media reports were accurate in stating that the president had directed McGahn to have the special counsel removed. The president then met with McGahn in the Oval Office and again pressured him to deny the reports. In the same meeting, the president also asked McGahn why he had told the special counsel about the president’s effort to remove the special counsel and why McGahn took notes of his conversation with the president. McGahn refused to back away from what he remembered happening and perceived the president to be testing his mettle.This is one of the most damning episodes listed in the report, despite having already been reported by The New York Times. It demonstrated an active effort by the president to paint a false narrative about his conduct, both in the news media and with the special counsel.— Maggie HabermanPOSTED AT 12:08 PMVol. II, Page 6: When Flynn’s counsel reiterated that Flynn could no longer share information pursuant to a joint defense agreement, the president’s personal counsel said he would make sure that the President knew that Flynn’s actions reflected ‘hostility’ towards the president.The report does not state what the president might do in response, if anything. But the episode is part of a pattern, laid out in the report, of the president or his lawyers trying to determine what former aides were telling the special counsel, praising those who refused to cooperate and warning those who did help the special counsel’s team.—Sharon LaFranierePOSTED AT 12:06 PMVol. II, Page 13: Ultimately, while we believed that we had the authority and legal justification to issue a grand jury subpoena to obtain the President’s testimony, we chose not to do so. We made that decision in view of the substantial delay that such an investigative step would likely produce at a late stage in our investigation. We also assessed that based on the significant body of evidence we had already obtained of the President’s actions and his public and private statements describing or explaining those actions, we had sufficient evidence to understand relevant events and to make certain assessments without the President’s testimony.Without an interview, Mr. Mueller never had a chance to question the president about the central question of the obstruction investigation: what was his intention when he took a range of actions that could have impeded the investigation?—Michael S. SchmidtPOSTED AT 12:05 PMVol. II, Page 4: On May 17, 2017, the Acting Attorney General for the Russia investigation appointed a special counsel to conduct the investigation and related matters. The president reacted to news that a special counsel had been appointed by telling advisors that it was ‘the end of his presidency’ and demanding that Sessions resign. Sessions submitted his resignation, but the president ultimately did not accept it. The president told aides that the special counsel had conflicts of interest and suggested that the special counsel therefore could not serve. The president’s advisors told him the asserted conflicts were meritless and had already been considered by the department of justice.The president immediately recognized the threat of the investigation. When he learned of Mr. Mueller’s appointment, he slumped in his chair and said, “Oh my God. This is terrible. This is the end of my presidency. I’m fucked.”He also lashed out at the attorney general for what Mr. Trump viewed as a failure to protect him. This would ultimately become a key consideration for the special counsel in debating whether the president obstructed justice, or sought to. — Maggie HabermanPOSTED AT 11:58 AMVol. II, Page 3: Shortly after requesting Flynn’s resignation and speaking privately to Comey, the President sought to have Deputy National Security Advisor K.T. McFarland draft an internal letter stating that the President had not directed Flynn to discuss sanctions with Kislyak. McFarland declined because she did not know whether that was true, and a White House Counsel’s Office attorney thought that the request would look like a quid pro quo for an ambassadorship she had been offered.Even the president’s closest advisers were reluctant to protect Mr. Trump because they could not be sure he was telling the truth.— Adam GoldmanPOSTED AT 11:55 AMVol. I, Page 2: Like collusion, “coordination” does not have a settled definition in federal criminal law. We understood coordination to require an agreement—tacit or express—between the Trump Campaign and the Russian government on election interference. That requires more than the two parties taking actions that were informed by or responsive to the other’s actions or interests.Mr. Trump likes to say there was “no collusion,” and Mr. Barr used that term again in his news conference on Thursday morning. But collusion is not a legal concept. In looking for evidence of a criminal conspiracy, Mr. Mueller said he was instead looking for whether there was evidence of “coordination” between the Trump campaign and Russia in its election interference activities. He decided that the evidence fell short of meeting that standard.— Charlie SavagePOSTED AT 11:53 AMVol. I, Page 10: The Office investigated several other events that have been publicly reported to involve potential Russia-related contacts. For example, the investigation established that interactions between Russian Ambassador Kislyak and Trump Campaign officials both at the candidate’s April 2016 foreign policy speech in Washington, D.C., and during the week of the Republican National Convention were brief, public, and non-substantive. And the investigation did not establish that one Campaign official’s efforts to dilute a portion of the Republican Party platform on providing assistance to Ukraine were undertaken at the behest of candidate Trump or Russia.Reporters circled for months around rumors of meetings between members of the Trump campaign, including Jeff Sessions, then a senator, and Sergey Kislyak, the Russian ambassador at the time, at the Mayflower Hotel in Washington and elsewhere. There were also lingering questions about why a portion of the Republican Party platform about Ukraine had changed during summer 2016. People involved in each had publicly denied any untoward behavior, and Mr. Mueller appears to have confirmed that the meetings were “non-substantive.” His assessment of the platform change is more nuanced, but ultimately did not “establish” the platform change had been directed by Mr. Trump or Russia.—Nicholas FandosPOSTED AT 11:52 AMVol. II, Page 7: Several features of the conduct we investigated distinguish it from typical obstruction-of-justice cases. First, the investigation concerned the President, and some of his actions, such as firing the FBI director, involved facially lawful acts within his Article II authority, which raises constitutional issues discussed below. At the same time, the President’s position as the head of the Executive Branch provided him with unique and powerful means of influencing official proceedings, subordinate officers, and potential witnesses—all of which is relevant to a potential obstruction-of-justice analysis.Mr. Mueller is saying that Mr. Trump’s powers as president were tied in with the actions he took that could have constituted obstruction, like ousting James B. Comey as F.B.I. director. This made building a case more difficult because Mr. Trump had the authority as president to take many of the actions that were scrutinized.— Michael S. SchmidtPOSTED AT 11:51 AMVol. II, Page 5: On several occasions, the president directed aides not to publicly disclose the emails setting up the June 9 [2016] meeting, suggesting that the emails would not leak and that the number of lawyers with access to them should be limited. Before the emails became public, the president edited a press statement for Trump Jr. by deleting a line that acknowledged that the meeting was with ‘an individual who [Trump Jr.] was told might have information helpful to the campaign’ and instead said only the meeting was about adoptions of Russian children. When the press asked questions about the president’s involvement in Trump Jr.’s statement, the president’s personal lawyer repeatedly denied the president had played any role.This confirms a New York Times report in July 2017 that disclosed that the president had helped draft the misleading statement made by his son Donald Trump Jr. and pushed for a version that did not reveal the true nature of the meeting. That The Times learned of the meeting at the time shook the president and was a key factor in what was a tumultuous summer for the White House.— Maggie HabermanPOSTED AT 11:48 AMVol. I, Pages 6-7: Both men believed the plan would require candidate Trump’s assent to succeed (were he to be elected president.) They also discussed the status of the Trump campaign and Manafort’s strategy for winning Democratic votes in Midwestern states.This suggests that Russia was trying to influence the Trump campaign to support a plan that would have allowed Russia to control part of eastern Ukraine, which would have been a huge victory for the Kremlin. Mr. Manafort had shared internal campaign polling data with the Russian associate before their Aug. 2, 2016, meeting — and for some period afterward, the report said.— Sharon LaFranierePOSTED AT 11:44 AMVol. II, Page 5: In early summer 2017, the president called Sessions at home and again asked him to reverse his recusal from the Russia investigation.The president instructed Donald F. McGahn II, the White House counsel, in 2017 to tell Attorney General Jeff Sessions not to recuse himself. The president wanted an attorney general who would shield the president, and his efforts to put Mr. Sessions back in charge of the Russia investigation showed he actively interfered in Mr. Sessions’s recusal as a possible act of obstruction.— Adam GoldmanPOSTED AT 11:40 AMVol. I, Page 9: While the investigation identified numerous links between individuals with ties to the Russian government and individuals associated with the Trump Campaign, the evidence was not sufficient to support criminal charges. Among other things, the evidence was not sufficient to charge any Campaign official as an unregistered agent of the Russian government or other Russian principal. And our evidence about the June 9, 2016 meeting and WikiLeak’s release of hacked materials was not sufficient to charge a criminal campaign-finance violation.Mr. Barr repeatedly said that the president’s campaign did not collude with Russia. Mr. Mueller’s report offers a more nuanced definition. He writes that while there was ample evidence of contacts between the Trump campaign and Russia as it carried out its social media influence and hacking campaigns, the evidence was not strong enough to support bringing criminal charges.—Nicholas FandosPOSTED AT 11:38 AMVol I. Page 89: Papadopoulos suggested to a representative of a foreign government that the Trump Campaign had received indications from the Russian government that it could assist the Trump campaign through the anonymous release of information that would be damaging to Hillary Clinton.It has long been known that Mr. Papadopoulos, a young campaign aide, was told that the Russian government had “dirt” on Mrs. Clinton. This goes much farther, and helps explain why the F.B.I. investigated members of the Trump campaign in 2016. Mr. Papadopoulos appeared to suggest an explicit offer by the Russian government to work with the Trump campaign to sabotage Mrs. Clinton.— Matt ApuzzoPOSTED AT 11:29 AMVol. II, Page 4: On June 17, 2017 the president called McGahn at home and directed him to call the acting attorney general and say that the special counsel had conflicts of interest and must be removed. McGahn did not carry out the direction, however, deciding that he would resign rather than trigger what he regarded as a potential Saturday Night Massacre.We knew that Mr. Trump had ordered his White House counsel, Donald F. McGahn II, in June 2017 to have the deputy attorney general, Rod J. Rosenstein, fire Mr. Mueller, and that Mr. McGahn had refused to do so. We did not know that the president called him at home to pressure him. The “Saturday Night Massacre” refers to the Watergate episode in which the Nixon administration’s attorney general and deputy attorney general both resigned rather than carry out President Nixon’s order to fire the prosecutor investigating that scandal, leading to a severe political backlash.— Charlie SavagePOSTED AT 11:23 AMVol. I, Page 2: An agreement “requires more than the two parties taking actions that were informed by or responsive to other’s actions or interests.”It was not enough for investigators simply to show the Trump campaign knew what the Russians were up to, and responded. Trump associates had to specifically agree with the Russians to violate the law.— Sharon LaFranierePOSTED AT 11:19 AMVol. II, Page 75: Substantial evidence indicates that the catalyst for the president’s decision to fire Comey was Comey’s unwillingness to publicly state that the president was not personally under investigation, despite the president’s repeated requests that Comey make such an announcement.Mr. Mueller effectively finds that the White House’s initial explanation for the firing was untrue. White House officials said that Mr. Comey was dismissed over his handling of the Hillary Clinton email investigation. The administration’s ever-changing justification for that firing led to speculation that Mr. Trump had fired him to sabotage the Russia investigation.— Matt Apuzzo

By Farhad Manjoo, with illustrations by Ariel Davis. Design and development by Jessia Ma and Sahil Chinoy.Waymo/YouTube,  AWS Online Tech Talks/YouTube, Verizon/YouTube, BatelleInnovations/YouTube, 23andMe/YouTube, McGovern Institute for Brain Research at MIT/YouTube, FaceFirst Facial Recognition Platform/YouTube, Hanson Robotics/YouTube, Amazon Web Services/YouTube, Nest/YouTube, Jamrak/YouTube, Youku Tudou Inc, Huawei IT/YouTube, Ancestry/YouTube, Fitbit/YouTube, Venmo/YouTube, Facebook/YouTube, Amazon/YouTube

Supported byCalifornia TodayBy Jill CowanGood morning.(Want to get California Today by email? Here’s the sign-up.)A formerly homeless veteran ekes out just enough to live by picking through the trash of billionaires like Mark Zuckerberg on the streets of San Francisco and selling the designer jeans and high-end housewares he finds.U.S.C. students jet to Bali for spring break, while some of their classmates work overnight shifts to pay for books.Recently, my colleagues Thomas Fuller and Jennifer Medina wrote articles about the symptoms of California’s vast and growing economic inequality.That’s a major, vexing topic in the state, though hardly unexplored.Still, they seemed to strike a particular chord with readers — hundreds of whom emailed, tweeted and commented on each.Many applauded Jake Orta, the Air Force veteran and Texas native whom Thomas followed around the rain-slicked streets of the Mission this winter.“Hats off to Mr. Orta,” one commenter, hotGumption, wrote. “He’s entrepreneurial, a survivor and — as I see it — a distant cousin to the trend called ‘shabby chic’ where canny designers take what used to be yard sale junk and make millions by renaming it.”Others were outraged by his story, not because they saw his actions as wrong, but because of what his lifestyle signified.“The profile speaks to the utter absence of care America provides its veterans,” Mike Frank wrote. “Wake up call to Mr. Zuckerberg: look out your front window, use your vast wealth and make Facebook a morally conscious leader with a commitment to the veterans who have served us and will continue to do so.”And some thought the story focused too much on the extremes.“Characterizing our country as a Dickensian Tale of Two Cities is a lot more fun than realizing it’s instead a Tale of Three Cities, with the overwhelming majority doing just fine,” wrote another commenter, bigoil.[Read the full story here.]More readers shared their experiences of being somewhere in the middle of the income spectrum at elite universities — and how the exposure to different ways of life was itself an education.“At Stanford, my freshman roommate got $100 for each A she earned. I had to earn spending money by serving food in the dining halls,” wrote Alice, whose son is now a freshman at U.S.C. “I realized being rich did not necessarily mean one was a snob. She realized she had grown up in a bubble. I encourage my son to embrace both the haves and the have-nots at S.C.”Others said that the piece depicted experiences similar to their own.“I got a great education at U.S.C. and was not resentful, but the idea of any sort of ‘even playing field’ at the school is simply untrue, and the gap in money and social stature was nearly impossible to close,” wrote Christine, who said she was the first person in her working-class family to attend college.Still others said inequality is what you make of it.“Wealthy people and celebrities send their kids here, they always have, but this narrative only works to devalue the education that many middle and lower middle class students care deeply about,” wrote Virginia, who said she’s a current U.S.C. undergrad. “I don’t care about the Corvette, as long as it doesn’t hit me when I’m jaywalking to class.”[Read the full story here.](We often link to sites that limit access for nonsubscribers. We appreciate your reading Times stories, but we’d also encourage you to support local news if you can.)• Destined to Burn: Which communities could be the next Paradise? An analysis found that more than 350,000 Californians live in communities built almost entirely in “very high fire severity zones.” [The Sacramento Bee]• “It is lawyer 101: You do not steal your client’s money.” In a drastic escalation of the criminal case against Michael Avenatti, federal prosecutors in California announced that he had been indicted on three dozen charges. If convicted, he could face up to 333 years in prison. [The New York Times]• Tax Day is Monday and it’s the first time Californians are filing under the Trump administration’s new tax law. Some are feeling a new squeeze: “The federal government really jacked us.” [CALmatters]• And if you still haven’t filed your taxes, here’s some last-minute advice. [The New York Times]• Sacramento teachers talk about why they walked out on Thursday. “It’s one broken promise after another.” [The Sacramento Bee]• Uber’s initial public offering could value the ride-hailing giant at $100 billion. But in a filing, the company revealed it’s losing $1.8 billion a year. [The New York Times]• A fight over where to build a homeless Navigation Center in San Francisco is giving way to a proposal to build one in every district — thus eliminating supervisors’ excuses about why they shouldn’t be built in their districts. [The San Francisco Chronicle]• “The Marathon continues.” Thousands gathered at Staples Center and on the streets of L.A. to remember and celebrate the life of Nipsey Hussle. [The New York Times]• And a Times journalist who went to the same high school as the rapper reflects: “Nipsey unapologetically believed in Los Angeles and represented it at a time when so many of the people and landmarks that we grew up with have changed or have closed down.” [The New York Times]• In Willows, hobbyists hack cars — and make them self-race. [The New York Times]• Almost a half a century ago, Bruce Lee pitched a TV show about life in San Francisco’s Chinatown in the late 1800s. He was told no; the show wasn’t viable with an Asian lead. Now, his daughter, Shannon Lee, and Justin Lin are bringing the vision to life with “Warrior.” [Newsweek]Tejal Rao is back in the West after winning a Vilcek Prize for Creative Promise. She shared her moving acceptance speech notes on Twitter, and now she’s sent us this recommendation, for a feast fit for a celebration:This week, my team at the food desk collaborated, rounding up our favorite cookbooks of the season. I wrote about “My Mexico City Kitchen, Recipes and Convictions,” by the chef Gabriela Cámara, known for her Mexico City restaurant Contramar and Cala in San Francisco.Why? Because on a recent Sunday I invited friends over and cooked a whole feast from the book. An equal parts dramatic and delicious butterflied grilled snapper. The fish was half red and half green: One side stained with a fiery paste of cascabel, ancho and guajillo chiles, the other side mellow with parsley and garlic.But first there were tostadas piled with creme fraiche and Cámara‘s green chorizo, and a big salad coated with her pepita dressing. For dessert, I made her kumquat chocoflan, and the book’s spot on my stack of favorites was sealed.California Today goes live at 6:30 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com. Were you forwarded this email? Sign up for California Today here.Jill Cowan grew up in Orange County, went to school at U.C. Berkeley and has reported all over the state, including the Bay Area, Bakersfield and Los Angeles — but she always wants to see more. Follow along here or on Twitter, @jillcowan.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.

Supported byNews AnalysisBy David E. SangerWASHINGTON — To celebrate the 70th anniversary of NATO, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo gathered ministers from all the nations in the military alliance on Wednesday night in the same hall where Harry S. Truman signed the North Atlantic Treaty Organization pact in 1949. “No military alliance in the world can remotely do what we do,” Mr. Pompeo said, hailing NATO’s success.But the forces pulling that alliance apart were evident everywhere.The bonds among the core nations that signed the original treaty, which was displayed next to Mr. Pompeo, are fracturing. New members that were once Soviet states are turning authoritarian. This week, the Pentagon blocked delivery of equipment for the alliance’s most modern weapon, the F-35 fighter jet, to Turkey because the NATO nation would not back down on buying Russia’s most sophisticated antiaircraft system.Vice President Mike Pence declared at the celebration that Germany risked becoming a “captive of Russia” because of its embrace of a direct energy pipeline to Russia.And missing altogether was President Trump, whom European and American officials alike wanted to keep away from the anniversary for fear he would again raise the idea of pulling out of NATO if other member states did not pay a greater share of the defense burden.It was, one European diplomat said with mild overstatement at one of the many receptions on Wednesday, a little like showing up at a birthday party and discovering you were attending a wake.No one had to pick through this minefield more carefully than Jens Stoltenberg, the Norwegian diplomat currently leading the alliance. Mr. Stoltenberg deftly dealt with Mr. Trump on Tuesday by thanking him at the White House for urging NATO countries to spend more on their own defense, which is estimated to result in $100 billion in new spending by the end of 2020.Mr. Stoltenberg clearly knew his audience. Increasing allied contributions is pretty much the only thing Mr. Trump discusses about NATO. In the president’s public comments, he has seemed uninterested in what the alliance is doing to push back against Russia or to take on new threats — like the daily onslaught of cyberattacks, from the annoying to the crippling, aimed at NATO members each day.It was only when Mr. Stoltenberg got to Capitol Hill, to address a joint session of Congress, that he publicly delineated what he saw as Russia’s many offenses — including the annexation of Crimea, the nerve-gas attack in Britain and Moscow’s violations of the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty, the agreement from which the United States is now withdrawing.“NATO will always take the necessary steps to provide credible and effective deterrence,” Mr. Stoltenberg said. But on Thursday, he left it unclear what form that deterrence would take. In comments to the foreign ministers from the alliance’s 29 nations — up from the dozen who signed the original treaty — Mr. Stoltenberg said that even if the standoff with Russia resembled a renewed Cold War, no intermediate-range nuclear weapons would be deployed on European soil to counter Moscow’s weapons.But no amount of celebration or warning could paper over bitter divisions that have erupted within NATO over the past few years, only some of which have to do with Mr. Trump.Mr. Pompeo expressed exasperation at the argument he hears so often in Europe, which is that its leaders simply will not spend money on defense at anything close to the levels Mr. Trump — and before him President Barack Obama — had in mind.“Now is not the time to repeat tired excuses that our citizens don’t support increased defense spending or security spending,” Mr. Pompeo said, carefully avoiding repeating Mr. Trump’s threats to leave the organization unless other member states step up.He did not need to. Last year, Mr. Trump periodically told his aides that he no longer saw value in staying in the alliance. And there was a sense at the 70th anniversary this week that the damage was done — even if he did not make good on the threat.In a coming report from the Council on Foreign Relations — titled “Trump’s Foreign Policies Are Better Than They Seem” — Robert Blackwill, a former national security aide and ambassador to India in the George W. Bush administration, argued that the president’s record with the alliance was mixed at best but that he had probably done more harm than good.In an interview, Mr. Blackwill praised Mr. Trump for pressuring the allies to spend more and for backing up expanded NATO defenses along Russia’s border with American troops and surveillance technology.But he said none of that would mean much “if the allies lose confidence that the U.S. will come to their defense under Article 5,” the provision of the treaty that deems an attack on one to be an attack on all. Mr. Trump’s biggest misstep, Mr. Blackwill said, was “undermining deterrence” — which he said was often as much a function of psychology as military might.Aware of the damage already done, Mr. Pompeo repeated the American commitment to Article 5 in a brief speech to the NATO ministers on Thursday. Yet few in the hall seemed to believe him, recalling that Mr. Trump refused to mention the treaty commitment during a visit to the alliance’s new headquarters in Brussels last summer, and only grudgingly did so later.“Never before has NATO had a U.S. leader who didn’t appear to believe deeply in NATO itself,” R. Nicholas Burns and Douglas Lute, two former American ambassadors to the alliance, argued in an op-ed in The Washington Post.In a  detailed report about the multiple crises engulfing NATO, the two former envoys pointed up a greater vulnerability that has more to do with how the alliance is focusing its resources rather than how it is raising them.For years, NATO’s planning and doctrine have seemed hopelessly rooted in old images of Russian military invasions into the Fulda Gap, the German lowlands where tanks could pour in. The alliance’s cybercenter, north of Brussels, was focused entirely on defending its own networks that have been under constant assault for years.Until a few years ago, NATO’s cyberdefenses ran from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on weekdays; the idea that state-sponsored hackers might wait to attack on weekends to cripple the alliance’s communications or defenses ran afoul of budgets and work schedules. Until recently, there was little discussion of offensive cybercapabilities, nor doctrines of deterrence.Only now is NATO beginning to think about the vulnerabilities of civilian and military communications that rely on 5G mobile phone networks. The alliance has been slow to think about how artificial intelligence and the potential of quantum computing could change the challenge of defending member states. This week’s meetings in Washington were the first in which threats from China were considered at any length.Next week, the NATO center of cyberexcellence in Tallinn, Estonia, will run an exercise envisioning a fictional nation — Berylia — under a combination of attacks on its power grid, its communications networks and its election systems. In the real world, that is what has happened in Ukraine, which is aspiring to join NATO. But Ukraine was not central to the discussions at the 70th anniversary.“We’ve become blinded by the constant focus on the 2 percent standard,” Senator Christopher S. Murphy, Democrat of Connecticut, said during the NATO meetings. He was referring to the current goal of member states of spending 2 percent of their economic output on the military by the end of 2024.“What really matters is how they are spending on their defense,” Mr. Murphy said. “How do we fight Russian election propaganda, or energy bribery?”



      By JONATHAN MAHLER and 
    
JIM RUTENBERG

APRIL 3, 2019

Murdoch and his children have toppled governments on two continents and destabilized the most important democracy on Earth. What do they want?


          
            Part 1: Imperial Reach
            
        
        Murdoch and his children have toppled governments on two continents and destabilized the most important democracy on Earth. What do they want?
          
      By JONATHAN MAHLER and JIM RUTENBERG APRIL 3, 2019Rupert Murdoch was lying on the floor of his cabin, unable to move. It was January 2018, and Murdoch and his fourth wife, Jerry Hall, were spending the holidays cruising the Caribbean on his elder son Lachlan’s yacht. Lachlan had personally overseen the design of the 140-foot sloop — named Sarissa after a long and especially dangerous spear used by the armies of ancient Macedonia — ensuring that it would be suitable for family vacations while also remaining competitive in superyacht regattas. The cockpit could be transformed into a swimming pool. The ceiling in the children’s cabin became an illuminated facsimile of the nighttime sky, with separate switches for the Northern and Southern Hemispheres. A detachable board for practicing rock climbing, a passion of Lachlan’s, could be set up on the deck. But it was not the easiest environment for an 86-year-old man to negotiate. Murdoch tripped on his way to the bathroom in the middle of the night.Murdoch had fallen a couple of other times in recent years, once on the stairs while exiting a stage, another time on a carpet in a San Francisco hotel. The family prevented word from getting out on both occasions, but the incidents were concerning. This one seemed far more serious. Murdoch was stretchered off the Sarissa and flown to a hospital in Los Angeles. The doctors quickly spotted broken vertebrae, which required immediate surgery, as well as a spinal hematoma, increasing the risk of paralysis or even death. Hall called his adult children in a panic, urging them to come to California prepared to make peace with their father.Few private citizens have ever been more central to the state of world affairs than the man lying in that hospital bed, awaiting his children’s arrival. As the head of a sprawling global media empire, he commanded multiple television networks, a global news service, a major publishing house and a Hollywood movie studio. His newspapers and television networks had been instrumental in amplifying the nativist revolt that was reshaping governments not just in the United States but also across the planet. His 24-hour news-and-opinion network, the Fox News Channel, had by then fused with President Trump and his base of hard-core supporters, giving Murdoch an unparalleled degree of influence over the world’s most powerful democracy. In Britain, his London-based tabloid, The Sun, had recently led the historic Brexit crusade to drive the country out of the European Union — and, in the chaos that ensued, helped deliver Theresa May to 10 Downing Street. In Australia, where Murdoch’s power is most undiluted, his outlets had led an effort to repeal the country’s carbon tax — a first for any nation — and pushed out a series of prime ministers whose agenda didn’t comport with his own. And he was in the midst of the biggest deal of his life: Only a few weeks before his fall on Lachlan’s yacht, he shook hands on a London rooftop with Robert A. Iger, the chief executive of the Walt Disney Company, consummating a preliminary agreement to sell his TV and film studio, 21st Century Fox, to Disney for $52.4 billion. But control of this sprawling empire was suddenly up in the air.The four grown children had differing claims to the throne. The 61-year-old Prudence, the only child of Murdoch’s first marriage, to the Australian model Patricia Booker (whom he divorced in 1965), lived in Sydney and London and kept some distance from the family business. But the three children from Murdoch’s second marriage, to Anna Mann (whom he divorced in 1999), had spent at least parts of their lives jockeying to succeed their father. Elisabeth (50), Lachlan (47) and James (46) all grew up in the business. As children, they sat around the family’s breakfast table on Fifth Avenue, listening to their father’s tutorials on the morning papers: how the articles were selected and laid out, how many ad pages there were. All of them had imagined that his ever-growing company might one day belong to them. As friends of the Murdochs liked to say, Murdoch didn’t raise children; he raised future media moguls.It had made for fraught family dynamics, with competing ambitions and ever-shifting alliances. Murdoch was largely responsible for this state of affairs: He had long avoided naming one of his children as his successor, deferring an announcement that might create still more friction within his family, not to mention bringing into focus his own mortality. Instead, Murdoch tried to manage the tensions, arranging for group therapy with his children and their spouses with a counselor in London who specialized in working with dynastic families. There was even a therapeutic retreat to the Murdoch ranch in Australia. But these sessions provided just another forum for power games and manipulation.[Read 6 takeaways from this story.]Over the years, Lachlan and James had traded roles, more than once, as heir apparent and jilted son. It was no secret to those close to the family that Murdoch had always favored Lachlan. (“But I love all of my children,” Murdoch would say when people close to him pointed out his clear preference for Lachlan.) But it was James who spent the first decades of the 21st century helping reposition the company for the digital future — exploiting new markets around the world, expanding online offerings, embracing broadband and streaming technology — while his older brother was mostly off running his own businesses in Australia after a bitter split from their father. When Lachlan finally agreed to return to the United States in 2015, Murdoch gave him and James dueling senior titles: All the company’s divisions would report jointly to them. It was an awkward arrangement, not only because they were both putatively in charge of a single empire. James and Lachlan were very different people, with very different politics, and they were pushing the company toward very different futures: James toward a globalized, multiplatform news-and-entertainment brand that would seem sensible to any attendee of Davos or reader of The Economist; Lachlan toward something that was at once out of the past and increasingly of the moment — an unabashedly nationalist, far-right and hugely profitable political propaganda machine.Only one of Murdoch’s adult children would win the ultimate prize of running the world’s most powerful media empire, but all four of them would ultimately have an equal say in the direction of its future: Murdoch had structured both of his companies, 21st Century Fox and News Corp, so that the Murdoch Family Trust held a controlling interest in them. He held four of the trust’s eight votes, while each of his adult children had only one. He could never be outvoted. But he had also stipulated that once he was gone, his votes would disappear and all the decision-making power would revert to the children. This meant that his death could set off a power struggle that would dwarf anything the family had seen while he was alive and very possibly reorder the political landscape across the English-speaking world.As the children hurried to their father’s bedside in Los Angeles, it seemed as if that moment had finally arrived.Media power has historically accrued slowly, over the course of generations, which is one reason it tends to be concentrated in dynastic families. The Graham family owned The Washington Post for 80 years before selling it to Amazon’s founder, Jeff Bezos. William R. Hearst III still presides over the Hearst Corporation, whose roots can be traced to his great-grandfather, the mining-baron-turned-United-States-senator George Hearst. The New York Times has been controlled by the Ochs-Sulzberger family for more than a century. The Murdoch empire is a relatively young one by comparison, but it would be hard to argue that there is a more powerful media family on earth.The right-wing populist wave that looked like a fleeting cultural phenomenon a few years ago has turned into the defining political movement of the times, disrupting the world order of the last half-century. The Murdoch empire did not cause this wave. But more than any single media company, it enabled it, promoted it and profited from it. Across the English-speaking world, the family’s outlets have helped elevate marginal demagogues, mainstream ethnonationalism and politicize the very notion of truth. The results have been striking. It may not have been the family’s mission to destabilize democracies around the world, but that has been its most consequential legacy.Over the last six months, we have spoken to more than 150 people across three continents about the Murdochs and their empire — some who know the family intimately, some who have helped them achieve their aims, some who have fought against them with varying degrees of success. (Most of these people insisted on anonymity to share intimate details about the family and its business so as not to risk retribution.) The media tend to pay a lot of attention to the media: Fox News is covered almost as closely as the White House and often in the same story. The Murdochs themselves are an enduring object of cultural fascination: “Ink,” a play about Rupert’s rise, is opening soon on Broadway. The second season of HBO’s “Succession,” whose fictional media family, the Roys, bears a striking resemblance to the Murdochs, airs this summer. But what we as reporters had not fully appreciated until now is the extent to which these two stories — one of an illiberal, right-wing reaction sweeping the globe, the other of a dynastic media family — are really one. To see Fox News as an arm of the Trump White House risks missing the larger picture. It may be more accurate to say that the White House — just like the prime ministers’ offices in Britain and Australia — is just one tool among many that this family uses to exert influence over world events.What do the Murdochs want? Family dynamics are complex, too, and media dynasties are animated by different factors — workaday business imperatives, the desire to pass on wealth, an old-fashioned sense of civic duty. But the Murdochs’ global operations suggest a different dynastic orientation, one centered on empire building in the original sense of the term: territorial conquest. Murdoch began with a small regional paper in Australia, inherited from his father. He quickly expanded the business into a national and then an international force, in part by ruthlessly using his platform to help elect his preferred candidates and then ruthlessly using those candidates to help extend his reach. Murdoch’s news empire is a monument to decades’ worth of transactional relationships with elected officials. Murdoch has said that he “never asked a prime minister for anything.” But press barons don’t have to ask when their media outlets can broadcast their desires. Politicians know what Murdoch wants, and they know what he can deliver: the base, their voters — power.The Murdoch approach to empire building has reached its apotheosis in the Trump era. Murdoch had long dreamed of having a close relationship with an American president. On the surface, he and Trump have very little in common: One is a global citizen with homes around the world, a voracious reader with at least some sense of self-awareness. (Murdoch was photographed last year on the beach reading “Utopia for Realists,” by Rutger Bregman, the Dutch historian who later told Tucker Carlson in an interview that Carlson was a “millionaire funded by billionaires.”) The other is a proudly crass American who vacations at his own country clubs, dines on fast food and watches a lot of TV. But they are each a son of an aspiring empire builder, and their respective dynasties shared the same core value — growth through territorial conquest — and employed the same methods to achieve it, leveraging political relationships to gain power and influence. In Trump’s case, these relationships helped him secure zoning exemptions, tax abatements and global licensing deals; in Murdoch’s case, they allowed him to influence and evade antimonopoly and foreign-ownership rules.Murdoch has carefully built an image during his six decades in media as a pragmatist who will support liberal governments when it suits him. Yet his various news outlets have inexorably pushed the flow of history to the right across the Anglosphere, whether they were advocating for the United States and its allies to go to war in Iraq in 2003, undermining global efforts to combat climate change or vilifying people of color at home or from abroad as dangerous threats to a white majority.Even as his empire grew — traversing oceans, countries and media — Murdoch saw to it that it would always remain a family business. Underpinning it was a worldview that the government was the enemy of an independent media and a business model that depended nonetheless on government intervention to advance his interests and undermine those of his competitors. The Murdoch dynasty draws no lines among politics, money and power; they all work together seamlessly in service of the overarching goal of imperial expansion.It would be impossible for an empire as sprawling as Murdoch’s to be completely culturally and ideologically consistent. He is a businessman who wants to satisfy his customers. His assets also include entertainment companies, sports networks and moderate broadsheets. Murdoch embodies these same contradictions. He’s an immigrant stoking nationalism, a billionaire championing populism and a father who never saw any reason to keep his family separate from his business, and in fact had deliberately merged the two.Most dynasties break apart eventually, as decision-making power is dispersed across individuals and generations with different attitudes about their family business and the world in general. No one knows this better than Murdoch, who in 2007 took over Dow Jones, publisher of The Wall Street Journal, by exploiting divisions within the Bancroft family, which had run the paper for more than a century. Murdoch thought he had protected himself from a similar fate by keeping a controlling interest in his empire; no one could take it away from him.The challenge would be holding it together.To understand how the Murdoch empire works, it is essential to return to its origins. On the day in 1931 that Rupert Murdoch was born, his father, Keith Murdoch, was in the midst of his first campaign to elect a prime minister from his newsroom in Australia. As a young newspaperman, Keith gained fame by evading military censors to report on the slaughter of his countrymen during the British-led Gallipoli campaign of World War I. He leveraged that fame to become a powerful executive at the Melbourne Herald and Weekly Times news company, a position that he in turn leveraged to punish his enemies and reward his allies: The candidate he was supporting for prime minister, Joseph Lyons, earlier helped Keith overcome regulatory restrictions to start a radio station for his company in Adelaide, according to the historian Tom Roberts’s 2015 biography of Murdoch’s father, “Before Rupert.” Lyons won, and as Keith saw it, Australia’s new leader served at his pleasure: “I put him there,” he reportedly said when the two later squabbled. “And I’ll put him out.”As Keith was creating one of the country’s first national news chains, a regional Australian newspaper editorialized about the danger of his ambitions, warning, Roberts wrote, that he was creating “a press dictatorship for all Australia with Murdoch-inspired leaders and Murdoch-trained reporters.” Bound up with Keith’s business interests were ideological inclinations not just about how power should work but also about who should be allowed to exercise it: He was a member of the Eugenics Society of Victoria and in an editorial once wrote that the great question facing Britain was “will she, if needs be, fight — for a White Australia?”Keith never built a true media empire. He did own two regional newspapers, one of which had to be sold to pay off his death duties when he died suddenly in 1952. That left only the 75,000-circulation News of Adelaide for his 21-year-old son, who was finishing his degree at Oxford. But Rupert Murdoch had already received something much more valuable from his father: an extended tutorial in how to use media holdings to extract favors from politicians.His first order of business was to establish a proper Murdoch-owned empire in Australia. After buying a couple of additional local papers, he founded the country’s first national general-interest newspaper, The Australian, which gave him a powerful platform to help elect governments that eased national regulations designed to limit the size of media companies. He would eventually take control of nearly two-thirds of the national newspaper market. With the construction of his Australian media empire underway, Murdoch moved on to Britain and Fleet Street, using his newest acquisitions, The News of the World and The Sun, to successfully promote Margaret Thatcher’s candidacy for prime minister. Once elected, her government declined to refer his acquisition of The Times of London to antimonopoly regulators, giving him the country’s leading establishment broadsheet to go with his mass-circulation tabloids.Television was next. After Murdoch lost the bidding for the British government’s sole satellite broadcasting license, Thatcher again came to his rescue, looking the other way when he started a rival service, Sky Television, which beamed programming into Britain from Luxembourg. The bigger Murdoch’s empire became, the more power he had to clear away obstacles to further its expansion. His influence became an uncomfortable fact of British political life, and Murdoch seemed to revel in it. “It’s The Sun Wot Won It,” The Sun declared on its front page in 1992, after helping send the Tory leader John Major to 10 Downing Street by relentlessly smearing the character of his opponent, Neil Kinnock. (“Nightmare on Kinnock Street,” The Sun headlined a savage nine-page package that included a satirical endorsement from the ghost of Joseph Stalin.) Murdoch could switch parties when it suited his purposes and ably supported Britain’s “New Labor” movement in the 1990s: Conservatives at the time had proposed regulations that would have forced him to scale back his newspaper operations in order to expand further into TV.Murdoch used the same playbook in the United States. In 1980, he met Roy Cohn — the former adviser to Senator Joseph McCarthy and a Trump mentor — who introduced him to Gov. Ronald Reagan’s inner circle. It was a group that included Roger Stone Jr., another Trump confidant and the head of Reagan’s New York operations, who said in a later interview that he helped Murdoch weaponize his latest tabloid purchase, The New York Post, on Reagan’s behalf in the 1980 election. Reagan’s team credited Murdoch with delivering him the state that year — Murdoch gave Stone an Election Day printing plate from The Post over a celebratory meal at the 21 Club — and his administration subsequently facilitated Murdoch’s entry into the American television market, quickly approving his application for American citizenship so he could buy TV stations too.The Reagan administration later waived a prohibition against owning a television station and a newspaper in the same market, allowing Murdoch to hold onto his big metro dailies, The New York Post and The Boston Herald, even as he moved into TV in both cities. The administration of George H.W. Bush suspended rules that forbade broadcast networks to own prime-time shows or to profit from them. That move allowed Murdoch to build the nation’s fourth broadcast network by rapidly filling out his schedule with shows from his newly acquired 20th Century Fox studio — “The Simpsons,” “21 Jump Street” — while also earning substantial profits from the production unit’s syndicated rerun hits like “M*A*S*H” and “L.A. Law.”Maybe more than any media mogul of his generation, Murdoch exploited the seismic changes transforming the industry during the waning years of the 20th century (another lesson from Keith, an early adopter of radio and newsreels). These changes were driven by technology: It was now possible to transmit endless amounts of content all over the world in an instant. But they were also driven by regulatory changes, in particular the liberation of TV and radio operators from the government guidelines that ruled the public airwaves. The Reagan administration’s elimination of the Fairness Doctrine, which had for decades required broadcasters to present both sides of any major public-policy debate, spawned a new generation of right-wing radio personalities who were free to provide a different sort of opinion programming to a large, latent conservative audience that was mistrustful of the media in general. It was only a matter of time until similar programming started migrating to the burgeoning medium of 24-hour-a-day cable television. And it was of course Murdoch who imported it.Murdoch had watched enviously as his younger rival, Ted Turner, built his own cable news network, CNN. In 1996, he and Roger Ailes, a former media adviser for Nixon and George H.W. Bush, started their conservative competitor, Fox News, which catered to those Americans whose political preferences had gone unaddressed on television news. Another political favor was crucial. When Time Warner, which owned CNN, refused to carry the new network on its cable system in New York, the city’s Republican mayor, Rudolph W. Giuliani — another future Trump adviser and a lion in the pages of The Post — publicly pressured the cable company as the two sides moved toward an eventual deal.A round-the-clock network with a virtual monopoly on conservative TV news, Fox conferred on Murdoch a whole new sort of influence that was enhanced by politically polarizing events like the Monica Lewinsky scandal and the post-Sept. 11 war in Iraq that marked its early years. If Murdoch’s papers were a blunt instrument, Fox’s influence was in some ways more subtle, but also far more profound: Hour after hour, day after day, it was shaping the realities of the millions of Americans who treated it as their primary news source. A 2007 study found that the introduction of the network on a particular cable system pushed local voters to the right: the Fox News Effect, as it became known. In a 2014 Pew Research poll, a majority of self-described conservatives said it was the only news network they trusted. Murdoch’s office above the Fox newsroom in Midtown Manhattan became a requisite stop on any serious Republican presidential candidate’s schedule.Fifty years and an untold number of deals after taking possession of The News of Adelaide, Murdoch had arrived at the pinnacle of global influence. “Republicans originally thought that Fox worked for us,” David Frum, a former speechwriter for George W. Bush, said in an interview with “Nightline.” “And now we’re discovering we work for Fox.”Murdoch’s success in building his empire inevitably raised the question of who would rule it after he was gone. As he grew older, he would often say privately that he didn’t want to become another Sumner Redstone, the aging media mogul who had refused to cede control of CBS and Viacom, even as he was losing the ability to speak or eat unassisted. But as he turned 75, and then 80, Murdoch, too, had declined to lay out a plan for the future of his empire.Initially he favored Lachlan, installing him as the general manager of one of his Australian newspaper chains at age 22 and overseeing his rise to the post of deputy chief operating officer of News Corp by age 33. But Lachlan’s rise was cut short after he clashed repeatedly with seasoned executives who viewed him as an entitled princeling. Furious at his father for siding against him in these disputes, Lachlan left the company — and the United States — in 2005, returning to the Murdochs’ ancestral homeland with a $100 million payout from the family trust. James, then the chief executive of British Sky Broadcasting — formerly Sky Television, later shortened to Sky — took over the mantle of heir apparent.But by the summer of 2015, Murdoch, now 84, had changed his mind: James was out, and Lachlan was once again next in line. The news was delivered to James not by his father but by Lachlan and the company’s president, Chase Carey, over lunch in Manhattan: Lachlan was moving back to the United States to take over the business. James would report to him.James was livid. The two brothers and their father had explicitly discussed succession not even two years earlier. James was supposed to take over, and Lachlan would never assume more than a symbolic role. As James saw it, he had not only been promised the job; he had earned it. He had devoted years of his life to trying to build the company — moving his family to Hong Kong and London, making monthly trips to Mumbai to push the family’s satellite-TV businesses into emerging technology and new markets — while his brother was off in Australia spearfishing and making dubious investments. Angry and appalled, James threatened to quit, heading straight from lunch to the airport for a flight to Indonesia.With a clipped, near-British accent and a penchant for wearing bluejeans and espadrilles, James reads as an archetype of today’s global power elite. Years ago, he was the family rebel, piercing his ears, dyeing his hair and having a light bulb tattooed on his right arm. As an undergraduate at Harvard, James flirted with becoming a medieval historian and joined the staff of The Harvard Lampoon before dropping out in 1995 to follow the Grateful Dead and start an independent hip-hop label, Rawkus Records, whose artists included Talib Kweli and Mos Def. A year later, his father bought Rawkus and brought James into News Corp, ending his short-lived foray outside the family business. In 2000, James married Kathryn Hufschmid, a fashion-marketing executive and part-time model from Oregon, whom he met on a mutual friend’s yacht bound for Fiji and whose more liberal politics made her an outlier in the Murdoch family. She argued frequently with her father-in-law over Fox’s politics. The constant sparring grew tiresome for Murdoch, who worried that Kathryn had too much influence over his younger son. He would often suggest to James that the two of them just go out to dinner alone when they needed to discuss something, according to a person close to Murdoch.Even inside his father’s empire, James continued to view himself in idealistic terms, as the one best suited to drag the sprawling, often backward-thinking company into the future, whether that meant making all of its offices carbon-neutral, leading investments in digitally oriented businesses like Hulu or moderating the wilder impulses of Fox News. A self-described political centrist, James saw the network as one of the biggest obstacles to his efforts to diversify and expand the company. In a meeting of senior executives, one attendee recalled, he said he wanted to change the image of the Murdoch empire so that it was no longer viewed as a company “defined by a single product with a charismatic founder.”Lachlan identified closely with that charismatic founder. His trajectory was very different from James’s. He shared his father’s attachment to Australia, both to his family’s long history inside the country and to its hypermasculine, rough-hewed culture. When he was younger, he worked as a jackeroo, herding and vaccinating sheep and lambs in rural Australia, and culled kangaroos from the family’s ranch in Cavan with a shotgun. (His father stuck to clay pigeons.) After graduating from Princeton, Lachlan returned to Australia to work in the family business, becoming an instant celebrity, known for wearing outback boots with his suits, riding a Kawasaki motorcycle to work, showing off his armband tattoo while rock climbing and courting the Australian model Sarah O’Hare, whom he married in 1999.Lachlan doesn’t speak publicly about his politics, but his employees in Australia found that he took a hard line on many issues. Chris Mitchell, the longtime editor of The Australian, recalled in his 2016 memoir, “Making Headlines,” that “Lachlan’s conservatism is more vigorous than that of any Australian politician” and that his views were usually to the right of his father’s. Lachlan once presented himself at one of the family’s papers to express displeasure with its decision to run an editorial in support of same-sex marriage, according to three people who knew about the interaction at the time. (Lachlan said through a representative that he had no recollection of the incident and that he supports same-sex marriage.) According to people close to him, Lachlan questions what he sees as the exorbitant cost of addressing climate change and believes that the debate over global warming is getting too much attention.Lachlan viewed his brother as a good executive, but he felt that he was the one who had taken risks and proved himself in Australia. It was true that some of his investments had failed — he’d bought a TV network, Ten, that went into receivership after losing $232 million in six months — but others, including a group of Top-100 and easy-listening radio stations, were earning tens of millions of dollars a year.Murdoch had been trying for years to coax Lachlan back from Australia. Murdoch’s 2013 divorce from his third wife, Wendi Murdoch, helped change Lachlan’s mind. He and James had tried to talk their father out of marrying Wendi over a 1999 dinner at the Manhattan restaurant Babbo — she was the rare subject on which the two sons agreed — and both of them had grown even less fond of her in the years that followed. James and at least one other company executive had heard from senior foreign officials that they believed she was a Chinese intelligence asset. And family members felt that she treated their father terribly, calling him “old” and “stupid.” (A spokesman for Wendi Murdoch denied these claims.)Apart from Wendi, the sons were at odds about almost everything. They were not only fighting over control of their father’s empire; they were fighting over one of his homes, a 8,651-square-foot Spanish-style mansion in Beverly Hills. Murdoch bought the house furnished in the 1980s from the music mogul Jules Stein, and his sons had a sentimental attachment to it, having spent a lot of time there as children. According to six people close to the family, James and Lachlan were upset to learn that their father had put the house on the market and had a $35 million offer on it from Leonardo DiCaprio. The brothers briefly discussed buying the house together; whoever happened to be in L.A. at any given moment could use it. James finally agreed to buy the house himself at a discounted price of $30 million, though after he and Kathryn did so, they learned that it needed four new retaining walls, costing them millions of dollars more. Lachlan was upset that his brother had gotten the house. As a gift, Murdoch gave him some of the antique furniture inside, even though James and Kathryn thought they had bought it furnished.While James was overseas, ready to quit, his father and brother came up with a compromise: All of 21st Century Fox’s divisions would report to both of them. James would be chief executive, while Lachlan would share the more exalted title of co-chairman with his father. The announcement would be carefully worded to suggest that they were coequals, to protect James from the public humiliation, even though Lachlan was technically the senior executive. Their salaries were identical, roughly $20 million a year to start. Each would have access to corporate planes for professional and personal use. James would be based in the company’s corporate offices in Midtown Manhattan, Lachlan on the other side of the country, in the vast chairman’s office formerly occupied by his father in Building 88 on the 21st Century Fox lot, which he decorated with a picture of the Cavan ranch and a 1979 black-and-white photograph of Murdoch standing in front of a New York Post printing press.James warily agreed to the terms, but the question of succession was not fully resolved. The news coverage of their promotions made no distinction between the seniority of their respective positions: Publicly at least, James was still seen as the heir apparent. When the dust finally settled, the two sons sat down for an interview with The Hollywood Reporter headlined, “The New Age of Murdochs.”Lachlan described the transition as “seamless.”In early 2015, Murdoch got a call from Ivanka Trump, proposing lunch with her and her father.They met soon after in the corporate dining room of the Fox News building in Midtown Manhattan. Ivanka’s husband, Jared Kushner, came, too. Just as the first course was being served, Trump told Murdoch that he was going to run for president.Murdoch didn’t even look up from his soup, according to three people who independently shared the story. “You have to be prepared to be rapped up badly,” Murdoch replied, using an expression for taking some knocks.Murdoch was deeply entwined with the Trump family. Trump had aggressively cultivated The Post during his rise to celebrity in New York in the late ’70s and ’80s. Kushner became close to Murdoch after he purchased The New York Observer in 2006. An improbable friendship blossomed between the octogenarian mogul and the 30-something publishing parvenu, with Murdoch and Wendi even taking Kushner and Ivanka on vacation in the Caribbean on Murdoch’s yacht. After Murdoch’s divorce in 2013, Kushner, who was also in the real estate business, helped him find a decorator for his new bachelor apartment. Ivanka was one of five individuals designated to oversee the trust for Murdoch and Wendi’s two daughters, which held $300 million in stock in News Corp and 21st Century Fox. (She relinquished her role as a trustee in 2016.)Murdoch recognized Trump’s appeal as a tabloid character and ratings driver, but he did not see him as a serious person, let alone a credible candidate for president. “He’s a [expletive] idiot,” Murdoch would say when asked about Trump, three people close to him told us (Through a spokeswoman, Murdoch denied that he ever used this phrase to describe Trump.).Roger Ailes, the longtime head of Fox News, was no more generous, at least when Trump was out of earshot. Ailes was close to Trump, too: Their alliance dated back to Rudolph Giuliani’s 1989 New York mayoral campaign, for which Ailes worked as a media adviser and Trump as a fund-raising figurehead. It was Ailes who, in 2011, gave Trump his regular Monday-morning slot on “Fox &amp; Friends,” which Trump used to advance his “birther” campaign. Still, Ailes ranted indignantly about the notion of a Trump presidency, saying that he wasn’t remotely worthy of the Oval Office, a person close to him at the time told us.Fox News’s initial resistance to promoting his candidacy came as an unpleasant surprise to Trump, who had assumed that his relationships with Murdoch and Ailes would ensure positive coverage. Ailes had even written Trump an email asking what he could do to help him. (After scrawling an enthusiastic note on top, Trump sent a printout of that email to his campaign manager, Corey Lewandowski.)During the campaign’s early months, it fell mostly to Ailes to manage the network’s tumultuous relationship with Trump, who complained constantly that Fox favored Ted Cruz and Marco Rubio. Trump was driven into a near-weekly rage by the Fox News host Bret Baier’s Friday-night segment, “Candidate Casino.” Opening with a graphic of a spinning roulette wheel and Vegas-style lights, Baier and his round table of political analysts would place bets on the probable party nominees. Even though Trump was winning in most of the polls, Baier’s parlor of experts regularly placed him toward the bottom of the pack.It was especially galling to Trump because he and Baier had golfed together, and Baier had briefly been a member at the Trump International Golf Club in West Palm Beach. (Baier dropped his membership when it became clear that Trump was likely to run for the presidency.) After the Fox contributor and Weekly Standard editor Stephen F. Hayes called Trump “a clown,” Trump faxed Baier a copy of his résumé, with a note scrawled across it in black marker: “Tell Hayes no clown could have done all this!” Trump even complained about Fox while appearing on Fox, ticking off, during a live interview with Sean Hannity, the contributors who should be fired because they were “biased” against him.Trump wasn’t without leverage in his relationship with Fox. The Murdoch formula was to deliver the enthusiasm of reactionary readers and viewers to chosen candidates, but Trump was already generating plenty of enthusiasm on his own. His hard-core supporters made up Fox’s core audience, and his social media accounts gave him a direct connection to them. If these supporters had to choose between Trump and Fox, Ailes might not like the results. At the same time, a new crop of right-wing outlets — Breitbart, Gateway Pundit, One America News, Sinclair — were embracing his candidacy, and mainstream broadcasters were no less aware of what he could do for their ratings. “I can go on the ‘Today’ show in my pajamas, and five million people will watch,” he warned Ailes, a former Trump campaign official recalled.After the Fox News anchor Megyn Kelly asked Trump, during the first Republican primary debate in the summer of 2015, to defend his comments about women — “You’ve called women you don’t like fat pigs, dogs, slobs and disgusting animals” — Trump demanded that Ailes force her to publicly apologize, according to the former Trump campaign official. (She didn’t.) Six months later, on the eve of another Republican debate in Des Moines, which Trump was boycotting because Kelly was once again moderating, Ailes tried desperately to persuade Trump to change his mind. His hopes were dashed when Trump called him from the tarmac in Iowa to refuse, having just watched the Fox News contributor Charles Krauthammer mock him on the network. Without Trump, the event drew just half the viewership of Fox’s first debate.Kushner was privately lobbying Murdoch to reconsider his attitude toward his father-in-law, showing him videos of the candidate’s overflowing campaign rallies on his iPhone. Even as Trump gained momentum, Murdoch continued to look for alternatives. Over the summer of 2015, he wrote a personal check for $200,000 to the super PAC of Gov. John Kasich, the relatively moderate Republican from Ohio, according to Federal Election Commission filings.Aware of her father-in-law’s dim view of Trump, James’s wife, Kathryn, tried to broker a meeting between Murdoch and Hillary Clinton. Having worked for the Clinton Climate Initiative, she knew both the Clintons and their inner circle of advisers and hoped Murdoch might consider an endorsement, or at least commit to staying neutral. The idea was not so far-fetched. Murdoch had, after all, backed Tony Blair, a Clinton-style Labor Party centrist, and had once even hosted a Senate fund-raiser for Hillary. Murdoch felt he didn’t need his daughter-in-law’s help. In fact, he called Clinton personally, leaving a message at her campaign headquarters. Clinton called back almost immediately but declined his invitation to meet with him. (A spokesman for Clinton did not respond to a request for comment.)During the primaries, Trump honed his political identity, railing against military intervention, free trade and immigration. They were all positions that directly contradicted Murdoch’s own, more neoconservative views. Murdoch had enthusiastically supported the Iraq War, evangelized for open immigration policies — even urging Australia to avoid the “self defeating” anti-immigration debate in the United States — and endorsed international trade agreements like the Trans-Pacific Partnership. His attitude toward Trump’s emergent ideology was often captured on the unremittingly anti-Trump editorial page of The Wall Street Journal. The page’s editor, Paul Gigot, was in frequent contact with his paper’s owner, according to sources familiar with the conversations. And yet Murdoch was in a sense responsible for unleashing the forces that were now propelling Trump’s rise. During the Obama years, Fox News had found ratings and profits with its wall-to-wall coverage of raucous Tea Party rallies and the opinion shows that advanced the campaign to delegitimize the country’s first African-American president. As the Republican nominating process progressed, this populist, anti-establishment energy was unmistakably coalescing around Trump.By March 2016, Donald Trump, the man Murdoch had so quickly dismissed a year earlier, was now the clear front-runner, and Murdoch was taking his first tentative steps toward embracing him.“If he becomes inevitable, party would be mad not to unify,” he tweeted.Across the Atlantic, a similar right-wing wave was threatening to drive Britain out of the European Union. Murdoch had a hand in that as well. His most influential tabloid, The Sun, had long been advocating for an exit from the E.U., and so had Murdoch himself, distilling his opposition to the E.U. into a single quote to Anthony Hilton, a columnist at The Evening Standard: “When I go into Downing Street, they do what I say; when I go to Brussels, they take no notice.” (Murdoch subsequently denied saying this; Hilton stood by the quote.) Prime Minister John Major told a judicial inquiry that in 1997 Murdoch said that he could not support him if he didn’t change his stance toward Europe, which the prime minister took as a demand for an E.U. referendum. (Murdoch denied this, too.) As the summer of 2016 approached, that referendum was finally coming.The idea of Britain’s splitting from the E.U. had always seemed more like a nativist fever dream than a realistic political goal. But in 2016, Brexit proponents could scan the globe and see cause for optimism. Not only was Trump’s campaign surging in the United States, but reactionary nationalism was also gaining supporters worldwide: In Austria’s presidential elections, the candidate of the Freedom Party, founded by former Nazi officers, narrowly lost in a runoff. The Philippines had just elected as president Rodrigo Duterte, following a campaign during which he inveighed against the country’s business and political elites and promised to kill so many criminals that the fish in Manila Bay would “grow fat” from feeding on their dead bodies. Hungary’s prime minister, Viktor Orban, had already built his own version of a border wall, miles of barbed wire aimed at turning back what he later called “Muslim invaders.”In the weeks leading up to the vote, The Sun led the London tabloids in hammering the case for leaving the European Union. It cast Brexit as a choice between the “arrogant europhiles” and the country’s working class, while railing against “mass immigration which keeps wages low and puts catastrophic pressure on our schools, hospitals, roads and housing stock.” It still looked like a long shot, and Murdoch’s other British newspaper, the more sober Times, had encouraged its wealthier and more politically moderate readers to vote in favor of remaining in the European Union. But The Sun was where Murdoch’s heart — and influence — lay.How much influence he still wielded in British politics was an open question. Murdoch had effectively been chased out of London five years earlier in the wake of the biggest crisis of his career: the revelations that his News of the World tabloid had, in search of dirt, been systematically hacking into the phones of politicians, celebrities, royals and even a 13-year-old schoolgirl. The scandal that followed, itself fit for tabloid headlines, would permanently alter the course of both the family and its empire. One of Murdoch’s executives, Rebekah Brooks, a virtual seventh child to Murdoch, was arrested, tried and acquitted. Andy Coulson, a former Murdoch editor who had gone to work for Prime Minister David Cameron, was sent to prison for encouraging his reporters to engage in illegal practices. In a futile effort at damage control, the company spent millions of dollars settling claims from hacking victims. Murdoch and James, who was running the company’s European and Asian operations from London at the time, were grilled in a public hearing before Parliament. James denied knowing that the phone-hacking was widespread but was publicly confronted with an email he was sent in 2008 alerting him to the potential severity of the problem. (He said that he had not reviewed “the full email chain.”)It was a corporate scandal, but because of the nature of this corporation, it was also a family matter. James blamed his father for having allowed the freebooting, anything-goes culture to take root at the paper and for forcing him to absorb so much of the blame for the scandal, when the hacking itself took place before he took charge. As James saw it, his father was angry that he wouldn’t conduct a cover-up; James went so far as to tell some members of the board that he was concerned about Murdoch’s mental health. For his part, Murdoch blamed James for surrounding himself with feckless, sycophantic advisers who failed to neutralize the crisis when it still could have been contained. Elisabeth, having long been out of the succession mix, reinserted herself, urging her father to fire James and replace him with her, four people familiar with the conversations told us. (Through a spokesperson, Elisabeth denied that she encouraged her brother’s firing or asked for his job.) Murdoch agreed to fire James but reversed his decision before it became public. Lachlan used the opportunity to play the family savior in a time of crisis, calling his father from Bangkok — en route to Britain from Australia — to urge him not to do anything rash. He swept into the company’s London offices looking tan, fit and rested, despite the daylong flight from Australia. His presence appeared to be an instant comfort to his father.The public shaming did not end with the scandal — a worldwide news event for months — or the interrogation by Parliament. A judicial inquiry investigated the practices of the British press, with Murdoch’s papers front and center. The resulting document, the Leveson Report, depicted a country in which a single family had amassed so much power that it had come to feel that the rules did not apply to them. “Sometimes the very greatest power is exercised without having to ask,” the report said. In their discussions with Murdoch, “politicians knew that the prize was personal and political support in his mass-circulation newspapers.”By the time the Leveson Report was released in 2012, Murdoch had shut down The News of the World and was keeping a low profile in Britain. Several factors accounted for his return in 2016, including his recent marriage to his fourth wife, Jerry Hall. They met in Australia, where Hall was playing Mrs. Robinson in a stage adaptation of “The Graduate.” Hall had a teenage son in London, and she and Murdoch were spending a lot of time in the 26-room house that she owned with her former partner, Mick Jagger.Now back in the city where he once wooed Margaret Thatcher, Murdoch used Britain’s largest tabloid to rally readers to vote to leave the European Union. The Sun’s cover on the day of the Brexit referendum was a picture of corporate synergy: “Independence Day: Britain’s Resurgence,” it read, over a mock version of the poster for the 21st Century Fox movie “Independence Day: Resurgence,” which opened in Britain that day. Murdoch flew in to London from Cannes for the vote and soon visited the newsroom of the anti-Brexit Times to gloat, joking to his reporters about their glum faces. Later, he likened the country’s decision to leave the European Union to “a prison break” and celebrated the vote with Nigel Farage, a leading architect of Brexit (and a future Fox News contributor), at a garden party at the London mansion of the Russian oligarch Evgeny Lebedev.The referendum represented the realization of a long-deferred dream for Murdoch. But it also returned him to a position of influence in British politics that seemed inconceivable just a few years earlier. Not only had The Sun played a critical role in delivering the Brexit vote, but in the ensuing political upheaval, it had swung behind Theresa May, helping ensure her election as prime minister. Once in office, she found time for a private meeting with Murdoch on one of her first foreign trips: a less-than-36-hour visit to New York to address the United Nations.Days after the vote, Trump, who had seemed to be struggling with the basic principles of Brexit in an interview with The Sun a few weeks earlier, visited Scotland for a victory lap of his own: “I said this was going to happen, and I think that it’s a great thing.” He, too, found time for Murdoch, inviting him and Jerry Hall to dinner with Kushner and Ivanka at his golf course in Aberdeen. Photographers captured them riding off in a golf cart, with Trump at the wheel and Murdoch lounging in the back.The summer of 2016 was a good time to be a network with a dedicated audience of right-wing viewers. And yet the future of Fox News had never seemed more uncertain: Murdoch’s flagship network was now backing a Republican presidential nominee who not only represented a radical departure from the party’s traditional platform but who also seemed destined to lose in a few months. What’s more, that network’s lodestar, Roger Ailes, had just been forced out following multiple claims of sexual harassment.It was James and Lachlan who teamed up to push Ailes out, over the initial objections of their father. Ailes was another rare subject on which the two sons agreed, though they disliked him for different reasons. Lachlan had clashed repeatedly with Ailes early in his career in New York. He told friends that he reached his breaking point with his father in 2005 when he learned that Murdoch had said to Ailes, “Don’t worry about the boy.” For his part, James saw Ailes as a boorish showman who embodied many of the most retrograde impulses of the network’s opinion programming: its nativism; its paranoiac attitude toward Muslims and undocumented immigrants; its embrace of conspiracy; and, maybe most of all, its climate-change denialism.James saw in Ailes’s exit an opportunity to push the network in a new direction. He wanted to bring in an experienced news executive who would reposition it as a more responsible, if still conservative, outlet — one whose hosts would no longer be free to vent without adhering to basic standards of accuracy, fairness and, as he saw it, decency. One candidate he had in mind was David Rhodes. Then the president of CBS News, Rhodes was a former Fox News executive, as well as the brother of Ben Rhodes, a foreign-policy adviser for Obama. Both Murdoch and Lachlan dismissed the idea. They wanted continuity, not change. Like his father, Lachlan considered the idea of meddling with such an important profit driver a form of madness.Rather than replace Ailes with a new executive, Murdoch moved into his office and took over the job himself, a short-term solution intended to reassure both shareholders and talent. He was soon back in the newsroom, attending meetings and visiting sets — “my retirement job,” he called it — and was having more fun than he’d had in years.Having once dismissed Trump’s candidacy, Murdoch now threw himself wholly behind it. During the final stretch of the campaign, Fox cut back appearances by anti-Trump analysts and contributors and added pro-Trump ones, while also ramping up its attacks on Hillary Clinton. Sean Hannity built shows around the same sorts of false claims that were circulating on far-right internet sites and suspected Russian social media accounts, suggesting that Clinton was suffering from a possibly life-threatening illness and that one of her Secret Service agents was carrying a diazepam pen, which is commonly used to treat seizures. (It was actually a flashlight.) One anti-Clinton segment was built around an appearance by Jeff Rovin, who had for years been the editor in chief of The Weekly World News, the supermarket tabloid best known for claiming that Hillary Clinton was possessed by Satan and had carried on an affair with a space alien named P’Lod. Other Murdoch outlets were swinging behind Trump, too: At The Wall Street Journal’s editorial page, Trump critics felt increasing pressure to moderate their positions. (The Journal’s news side, by contrast, broke the first story about The National Enquirer’s role in Trump’s efforts to buy the silence of women claiming affairs with him.)With Clinton taking on an air of inevitability, James and Kathryn invited Kushner and Ivanka to a small dinner salon they were hosting at their Upper East Side townhouse with a guest speaker: Adm. James Stavridis, a Democrat who had been talked about as a possible vice-presidential pick for Clinton. James and Kathryn knew Kushner and Ivanka socially and considered the invitation a gesture of empathy, a person who attended the dinner told us. They had endured their own public humiliation during the hacking scandal in London and wanted to show solidarity with the couple, and they also let them know that they would be welcomed back into polite Manhattan society after Trump lost.As the early returns came in on election night, Kathryn received a text message from her father-in-law, who was in the Fox newsroom: “Looks like your girl’s going to win.”Continue reading Part 2, when Trump’s presidency cements Murdoch’s global influence — and the bitter struggle between his sons threatens to tear the company apart.April 3, 2019April 3, 2019April 3, 2019Jonathan Mahler is a staff writer for the magazine who has previously written about the relationship between CNN and Donald Trump. Jim Rutenberg is the Times media columnist and a writer at large for the magazine, writing about media and political organizations.Photo illustrations by Joan WongPhoto illustrations by Joan Wong

Supported byMueller laid out the evidence for members of Congress to take action against President Trump. Will they?By Michelle GoldbergOpinion ColumnistIn 2017, a brilliant visual effects expert created a video montage called “It’s Mueller Time! Trump Administration Season Ending.” Set to the crooning of the 1963 song “From Russia With Love,” it shows F.B.I. agents rounding up the central figures who brought us Donald Trump’s presidency, culminating in Trump himself being led away with his hands behind his back.I’ll admit to having watched this over and over again; it’s one of the most satisfying bits of wish fulfillment I’ve ever seen. Wish fulfillment is all it was, though. It’s a national disgrace that Trump sleeps in the White House instead of a federal prison cell, but it has been a while since I had any expectation that the special counsel Robert Mueller’s findings, many of which were finally released to the public on Thursday, could set things right. Instead, I’d desperately hoped for something more modest: clarity. A rough public consensus on what happened in the 2016 election and its aftermath, akin to the Warren Commission report on the assassination of President John Kennedy, or the 9/11 Commission Report. A set of facts that serious people could agree on, leaving conspiracy theories at least somewhat marginalized.There are a lot of reasons Trump’s election remains a festering wound. It was a horrifying shock to many of us and, given his decisive loss in the popular vote, an insult to democracy. But there was also so much destabilizing weirdness surrounding it. Trump’s relationship with President Vladimir Putin of Russia has long been suspect; as Kevin McCarthy, the California Republican who was the House majority leader at the time, told colleagues in a secretly recorded 2016 conversation, “There’s two people I think Putin pays: Rohrabacher and Trump.” (He was speaking of Dana Rohrabacher, the slavishly pro-Putin former Republican congressman.)Several weeks before Trump was inaugurated, America’s intelligence agencies reported that Russia had engaged in cyberoperations to help him win. In the months that followed, there was one staggering revelation after another about secret conversations between Trump’s circle and various figures linked to Russian intelligence.At the same time, the new administration unleashed on the public a degrading cacophony of lies, of the sort many of us associate with authoritarian countries like Russia. The day after the new president was sworn in, Sean Spicer, Trump’s first press secretary, stood in the White House briefing room and insisted that the inauguration crowd had been unprecedented in size. This was terrifying, despite the petty stupidity of the untruth, because Americans were not yet used to being told to believe government diktats over the clear evidence of their senses.[Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]This quickly became our new normal. Once Republicans realized the power they could amass by collaborating in Trumpian mendacity, most of them gleefully abandoned any sense of epistemological solidarity with their fellow Americans. There’s a reason “gaslighting” has become one of the most overused terms of the Trump era. And perhaps the biggest lie of all was that Mueller’s investigation, rather than the events that precipitated it, was the real scandal, an attempt to frame Trump rather than an effort to get to the bottom of an assault on our democracy.It was probably naïve to think that Mueller could cut through such a thick web of falsity. But if anyone could have, it would have been him, the embodiment of a set of old-fashioned virtues that still ostensibly command bipartisan respect. Over the months of the investigation, he came to represent for many an ideal of manliness that rebuked Trump’s insecure machismo. He was a war hero, Trump was a shirker. He was a public servant, Trump a venal con man. He was honest, Trump a liar. America doesn’t have a Walter Cronkite anymore, a person whose word is trusted implicitly across the political spectrum. Mueller was as close as we were going to get.He and his team have now given us the clearest picture yet of the murky events surrounding Trump’s ascension. “The Russian government interfered in the 2016 presidential election in sweeping and systematic fashion,” they wrote. The Trump campaign welcomed this interference, but, we now know, did not assist in it. “Although the investigation established that the Russian government perceived it would benefit from a Trump presidency and worked to secure that outcome, and that the Campaign expected it would benefit electorally from information stolen and released through Russian efforts, the investigation did not establish that members of the Trump campaign conspired or coordinated with the Russian government in its election interference activities.” Once in office, Trump sought to thwart the investigation into what Russia had done. He believed — correctly, as it happens — that Russia’s actions cast doubt on the legitimacy of his victory. The report says he may also have feared that what appears to be his advance notice of the WikiLeaks dumps of hacked Democratic emails and his campaign’s now infamous Trump Tower meeting with Russian emissaries offering dirt on Hillary Clinton “could be seen as criminal activity by the President, his campaign, or his family.” Further, although “the President publicly stated during and after the election that he had no connection to Russia,” his company was negotiating to build a Trump Tower Moscow throughout most of the campaign, a fact that could have hurt him politically if it got out.Numerous commentators have said that the report reads like a road map for impeachment, and in a remotely functional country that’s what it would be. Mueller makes it clear that because of the Office of Legal Counsel’s opinion that a sitting president cannot be indicted, “we determined not to apply an approach that could potentially result in a judgment that the President committed crimes.” Instead, the evidence is laid out for congressional action, or even for prosecutors to indict after Trump leaves office.The test for us now is how much evidence still matters. Before the report came out, William Barr, Trump’s attorney general, created a fog of disinformation around it, blatantly misleading the public about what it contained.Weeks before anyone else could read the report, he tried to close the door on obstruction, implying falsely that Mueller meant to leave the decision to him. In a news conference on Thursday, Barr repeatedly said that Mueller had found no “collusion” between the Trump campaign and Russia. Mueller, however, never examined the case through the lens of “collusion,” which isn’t a term in criminal law: “In evaluating whether evidence about collective action of multiple individuals constituted a crime, we applied the framework of conspiracy law, not the concept of ‘collusion,’” the report says. Barr claimed that “evidence of non-corrupt motives weighs heavily against any allegation that the President had a corrupt intent to obstruct the investigation.” The report is overstuffed with evidence of corrupt motives.But most people aren’t going to read the nearly 500-page report. Republicans have already seized on Barr’s words — and on the lack of criminal charges in a document that was never going to contain criminal charges — to claim total vindication for Trump. The president’s manifest disloyalty to the country in trying to halt an investigation into a foreign attack on an American election is, to the right, of no account. Nor are the counterintelligence implications of Mueller’s findings, which aren’t part of the report. In the eyes of the president’s supporters, his campaign did not participate in the criminal conspiracy that helped elect him, so no more needs to be said.The reaction to the report shows that between the minority of Americans who support Trump and the majority who do not, there may no longer be even the possibility of a shared sense of reality or national purpose. Even as exemplary a figure as Mueller cannot change that.Compounding the problem, Republicans are willing to act unilaterally on their perception of reality, but Democrats are not. As Hannah Arendt wrote in 1951, “Totalitarianism will not be satisfied to assert, in the face of contrary facts, that unemployment does not exist; it will abolish unemployment benefits as part of its propaganda.” The same logic underlies Republican threats to actualize fantasies about an attempted deep-state coup by opening an investigation into the Mueller investigation’s origins.Most Democrats, conversely, have facts on their side, but not conviction. They are reluctant to begin an impeachment inquiry into Trump because majorities, in polls, don’t support it, and there is no Republican buy-in. Whether or not this is politically wise, failing to impeach would be a grave abdication. If you want people to believe that the misdeeds enumerated in the Mueller report are serious, you have to act like it. To not even try to impeach Trump is to collaborate in the Trumpian fiction that he has done nothing impeachable. On Friday, Senator Elizabeth Warren took the lead among Democratic presidential candidates in calling for impeachment proceedings to begin. Others should follow her. Mueller has given us the truth of what Trump has done, and in that sense the hokey faith the Resistance put in him was not misplaced. But right now only a political fight can make that truth matter.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Michelle Goldberg has been an Opinion columnist since 2017. She is the author of several books about politics, religion and women’s rights, and was part of a team that won a Pulitzer Prize for public service in 2018 for reporting on workplace sexual harassment issues.  @michelleinbklyn 

Supported byTech FixHere’s a comprehensive comparison of the two services to help you choose your go-to app for hitching rides.By Brian X. ChenLead consumer technology writerUber and Lyft recently made clear that they are in the ride-hailing business for the long haul. Shortly after Lyft went public with plenty of fanfare last month, Uber shared its plans for its own initial public offering.So now feels like the right time to ask: Is one of the apps definitively superior for hitching rides? While both services look identical, there are major differences. Uber is richer in features and available in more cities. Yet Lyft is more transparent in its receipts about the details of a trip, which can help consumers understand when prices increase; Uber’s opaque receipts could leave people perplexed.I have used Uber and Lyft to hitch hundreds of rides over the last seven years. To take a closer look, I made them my only mode of transportation for the last week, using the apps to get around town while comparing their features, rewards programs, pricing structures, reputations and availability. In the end, I concluded that Uber had an edge, though the best app for you will depend largely on where you live and how often you need rides. Here’s a rundown of how the apps compare.Uber and Lyft are, for the most part, neck and neck in terms of their core features. To summon a car, you tap the app on your smartphone and enter a destination and pickup location. Then you choose the type of car you want: economy, luxury or larger vehicles with more seats like S.U.V.s. To streamline requests, both apps let you save frequently used locations, like your home or office. They both also let you add multiple drop-off points if you are sharing a car with a couple of friends. And to lower costs, both apps let you hail a car to share with a stranger who is going somewhere along your route: Uber calls its feature UberPool, and Lyft calls it a Shared ride. When a trip is complete, payment happens through the app, and you get an emailed receipt documenting the route.But that’s where the similarities end. Here are the notable differences: Uber includes a button to let you split the cost of the fare with multiple riders, which is handy when you’re out with a group. Lyft discontinued its fare-splitting feature last year and said it planned to release an improved version this year. In addition to UberPool, Uber includes a car-sharing feature called Express Pool, where you agree to walk a short distance from your actual location, like to a street corner, and be dropped off somewhere close to your destination. In other words, you save money by walking a bit to make the route more efficient for the driver. Lyft is currently testing a similar feature in three cities. (This isn’t a game-changing feature: In my tests, Uber’s Express Pool option was not available in many locations.) Most important, Uber lets people request wheelchair-accessible cars in about 15 of its top cities. In my tests in San Francisco, wheelchair-accessible cars were available in many areas. Lyft, which declined to comment for this column, has a very limited wheelchair-accessibility program; I wasn’t able to summon one here. The verdict: In terms of ride-summoning features, Uber wins hands down. Its broader wheelchair-accessibility feature is similar to the option offered by traditional taxicabs. And Lyft’s lack of fare splitting makes Uber the app of choice for group outings. Fundamentally, Uber and Lyft charge roughly the same rates: Riders pay a fare based on the duration and distance of a ride. It’s when the companies raise prices that things get more confusing.When not enough cars are available in an area with high demand, both companies use a system known as dynamic pricing, which scales up costs in accordance with supply and demand. So if you’re outside a popular museum and dozens of others are trying to summon cars, Uber and Lyft will raise prices to nudge additional drivers to come to the area. Uber calls its practice surge pricing, and Lyft’s version is labeled Prime Time. In the past, when Uber fares “surged,” the app showed a multiplier — for example, 3X, meaning the fare was triple the normal cost. When prices surge now, Uber does not show a multiplier and instead quotes only the higher price up front. Lyft marks up its Prime Time pricing with a percentage: If the rate is 50 percent, a fare that would normally be $10 costs $15.The verdict: Lyft wins, in part for greater transparency. Its receipts break out details like the duration of the trip and the distance traveled, which helps riders better understand overall costs. In its receipts, Uber does not show the length and duration of the trip; it shows a fare price. The vagueness can make things more confusing, especially when prices are higher because of unexpected circumstances like heavy traffic.In addition, because Uber is generally more popular in most cities, in my experience its surge markup is often significantly higher than Lyft’s, meaning riders are typically better off summoning a Lyft when cars are in high demand. Uber declined to comment, citing a quiet period before its I.P.O.Like airlines that reward loyal customers, Uber and Lyft offer some goodies to frequent riders.Uber provides a tiered rewards system. For most rides, you earn two points for every dollar spent, and the points help you climb toward higher statuses with different perks. At 2,500 points, for example, you reach platinum status, which gives you priority access to drivers at airports, among other things. Uber also offers Uber Cash, a program that gives discounts to those who buy credits that can be applied toward rides. So if you buy $100 of credits, Uber will give you $105 in Uber Cash, effectively a 5 percent discount. Lyft’s rewards program is limited. Last year, it started a program for people who set up business profiles, a tool that made it easier for riders to expense Lyft rides to their companies. For every five business rides that people took, they got $5 in personal ride credit. Late last year, Lyft said it would expand its rewards program so that all rides accrued points that could earn perks, like savings on future rides or upgrades to fancier cars. But so far the feature is available in only a few cities, and Lyft customers can join the program only once they receive an invitation via email or the app.The verdict: Frequent riders will benefit more from Uber’s rewards program, which is more comprehensive and compelling. If you are the conscientious type of consumer, take a look at the companies’ histories.In 2017, Uber was mired in scandal after scandal. Among them: A former employee detailed a rampant culture of sexual harassment; the company was revealed to have used a secret program to identify law enforcement officials and evade sting operations; and it disclosed that hackers had stolen data from 57 million driver and user accounts and kept the breach secret for more than a year. Uber’s former chief executive, Travis Kalanick, was forced to resign.Lyft has a cleaner track record. Last year, The Information reported that some Lyft employees had improperly gained access to user data, including rides taken by their romantic partners and high-profile executives like Facebook’s Mark Zuckerberg. The company investigated the allegations and added restrictions to employee access to data.The verdict: Though neither company is innocent, Lyft wins by a long shot.Uber has an advantage because of its broad availability worldwide. The company, which has operations in 63 countries, is a behemoth compared with Lyft, which is available in just the United States and Canada. The bottom line: In terms of features, reward programs and availability, Uber has an edge over Lyft. Even if you prefer Lyft in your hometown for ethical reasons, it may be practical to keep the Uber app on your phone in case you travel somewhere like London, Paris or Tokyo. Or you could try to hail an old-school taxicab wherever you travel, assuming you can find one. An earlier version of this article misstated how the Uber app reflects the company's so-called surge fares. When prices surge now, the app simply quotes only the higher price. It does not show a multiplier — for example, 3X, meaning the fare was triple the normal cost — as it did in the past.Brian X. Chen is the lead consumer technology writer. He reviews products and writes Tech Fix, a column about solving tech-related problems. Before joining The Times in 2011 he reported on Apple and the wireless industry for Wired.  @bxchen 

Supported byAttorney General William P. Barr sent a letter to Congress last month citing brief fragments from the Mueller report. Now that the document is public, his selections are coming under scrutiny.By Charlie SavageWhen Attorney General William P. Barr sent Congress a four-page letter last month describing his take on the conclusions of Robert S. Mueller III’s special counsel investigation, he quoted several fragments of Mr. Mueller’s then-secret report.But none of the excerpts were in context or even complete sentences, raising the question of whether he was portraying their thrust and tone accurately or skewing them to make them sound better for President Trump.Now that the report is out, readers can see where Mr. Barr plucked those phrases from. From William P. Barr“In making this determination, we noted that the special counsel recognized that ‘the evidence does not establish that the president was involved in an underlying crime related to Russian election interference,’ and that, while not determinative, the absence of such evidence bears upon the president’s intent with respect to obstruction.” From Robert S. Mueller IIIVol. II, Page 157: Obstruction of justice can be motivated by a desire to protect noncriminal personal interests, to protect against investigations where underlying criminal liability falls into a gray area, or to avoid personal embarrassment. The injury to the integrity of the justice system is the same regardless of whether a person committed an underlying wrong. In this investigation, the evidence does not establish that the president was involved in an underlying crime related to Russian election interference. But the evidence does point to a range of other possible personal motives animating the president’s conduct. These include concerns that continued investigation would call into question the legitimacy of his election and potential uncertainty about whether certain events — such as advance notice of WikiLeaks’ release of hacked information or the June 9, 2016, meeting between senior campaign officials and Russians could be seen as criminal activity by the president, his campaign or his family.Mr. Barr, in explaining why he was declaring Mr. Trump cleared of obstructing justice, cited this sentence fragment about how the evidence Mr. Mueller had gathered did not prove there had been any conspiracy with Russia for Mr. Trump to cover up. This use of Mr. Mueller’s words turned the special counsel’s meaning on its head: The brief excerpt came from a list of other possible reasons Mr. Trump might have had to corruptly impede the investigation, and which Mr. Barr did not mention.From William P. Barr“The special counsel’s investigation did not find that the Trump campaign or anyone associated with it conspired or coordinated with Russia in its efforts to influence the 2016 U.S. presidential election. As the report states: ‘[T]he investigation did not establish that members of the Trump campaign conspired or coordinated with the Russian government in its election interference activities.’”From Robert S. Mueller IIIVol. I, Page 1: The investigation also identified numerous links between the Russian government and the Trump campaign. Although the investigation established that the Russian government perceived it would benefit from a Trump presidency and worked to secure that outcome, and that the campaign expected it would benefit electorally from information stolen and released through Russian efforts, the investigation did not establish that members of the Trump campaign conspired or coordinated with the Russian government in its election interference activities.Mr. Barr took a larger passage in which the Mueller report suggested that the Trump campaign and the Russian government were knowingly dancing together at a distance, and then excerpted a fragment to make it look like a cleaner exoneration.From William P. Barr“In assessing potential conspiracy charges, the special counsel also considered whether members of the Trump campaign ‘coordinated’ with Russian election interference activities. The special counsel defined ‘coordination’ as an ‘agreement — tacit or express — between the Trump campaign and the Russian government on election interference.’”From Robert S. Mueller IIIVol. I, Page 2: We understood coordination to require an agreement — tacit or express — between the Trump campaign and the Russian government on election interference. That requires more than the two parties taking actions that were informed by or responsive to the other’s actions or interests.In the second sentence, which Mr. Barr omitted, Mr. Mueller again emphasized that there can be a type of complicit conduct that falls short of how the special counsel defined coordination.From William P. Barr“After making a ‘thorough factual investigation’ into these matters, the special counsel considered whether to evaluate the conduct under department standards governing prosecution and declination decisions but ultimately determined not to make a traditional prosecutorial judgment.”From Robert S. Mueller IIIVol. II, Page 2: Second, while the O.L.C. opinion concludes that a sitting president may not be prosecuted, it recognizes that a criminal investigation during the president’s term is permissible. The O.L.C. opinion also recognizes that a president does not have immunity after he leaves office. And if individuals other than the president committed an obstruction offense, they may be prosecuted at this time. Given those considerations, the facts known to us, and the strong public interest in safeguarding the integrity of the criminal justice system, we conducted a thorough factual investigation in order to preserve the evidence when memories were fresh and documentary materials were available.In his letter to Congress, Mr. Barr did not explain that Mr. Mueller was trying to leave open the possibility that prosecutors in the future, after Mr. Trump leaves office, could look at the evidence he gathered and decide then whether to indict Mr. Trump. That rationale — which stemmed from the view of the Justice Department’s Office of Legal Counsel, or O.L.C., that sitting presidents cannot be indicted but former presidents lose such immunity — conflicted with Mr. Barr’s move to pronounce Mr. Trump cleared now. From William P. Barr“The special counsel therefore did not draw a conclusion — one way or the other — as to whether the examined conduct constituted obstruction. Instead, for each of the relevant actions investigated, the report sets out evidence on both sides of the question and leaves unresolved what the special counsel views as ‘difficult issues’ of law and fact concerning whether the president’s actions and intent could be viewed as obstruction. The special counsel states that ‘while this report does not conclude that the president committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him.’” Mr. Mueller used those two phrases twice, in slightly different formulations:From Robert S. Mueller IIIVol. II, Page 2: Fourth, if we had confidence after a thorough investigation of the facts that the president clearly did not commit obstruction of justice, we would so state. Based on the facts and the applicable legal standards, however, we are unable to reach that judgment. The evidence we obtained about the president’s actions and intent presents difficult issues that prevent us from conclusively determining that no criminal conduct occurred. Accordingly, while this report does not conclude that the president committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him.Vol. II, Page 8: Because we determined not to make a traditional prosecutorial judgment, we did not draw ultimate conclusions about the president’s conduct. The evidence we obtained about the president’s actions and intent presents difficult issues that would need to be resolved if we were making a traditional prosecutorial judgment. At the same time, if we had confidence after a thorough investigation of the facts that the president clearly did not commit obstruction of justice, we would so state. Based on the facts and the applicable legal standards, we are unable to reach that judgment. Accordingly, while this report does not conclude that the president committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him. In his letter, Mr. Barr did not explain why the special counsel had demurred from making any prosecutorial judgment on obstruction beyond a cryptic reference to what he said Mr. Mueller had described as “difficult issues” of law and fact. His suggestion was that these unspecified issues prevented Mr. Mueller from making a call “one way or the other.” In fact, Mr. Mueller made clear that the difficulties resided in accusing Mr. Trump of committing a crime; if the facts had exonerated him, he would have been willing to say so.Charlie Savage is a Washington-based national security and legal policy correspondent. A recipient of the Pulitzer Prize, he previously worked at The Boston Globe and The Miami Herald. His most recent book is “Power Wars: The Relentless Rise of Presidential Authority and Secrecy.”  @charlie_savage • Facebook 

Supported byOn Politics With Lisa LererBy Lisa LererHi. Welcome to On Politics, your guide to the day in national politics. I’m Lisa Lerer, your host.I have to open this newsletter with a shameful admission.So, I’m sitting at my desk in The New York Times’s Washington bureau, waiting, like everyone in town, for the release of Robert S. Mueller III’s report. CNN is on, Twitter is open and the office is wired.This is a moment, people: It’s a major crossroads in Donald J. Trump’s presidency. It’s the conclusion of 23 months, 34 indictments and guilty pleas, 500 search warrants and 2,300 subpoenas.Finally it drops. I open the 448-page document, with all its legalese and redactions, breathe in the history of the moment and … immediately open five different tabs of junk on the internet. I mean, this thing is long. And overwhelming.Of course, I did eventually dive into it — this is my job, after all — and man, does it paint a picture of an administration with a culture of stretching, if not undermining, the truth.(If you read only one section, make it pages 290-299, which detail Mr. Trump’s attempts to fire the special counsel.)For the rest of you with a life outside of politics, journalists at The Times spent all day digging through the report. Here’s a recap of what we found.Perhaps the most dramatic passage is an account from May 2017. Jeff Sessions, then the attorney general, told Mr. Trump that Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general, had appointed Mr. Mueller as special counsel.According to notes written by Jody Hunt, Mr. Sessions’s top aide, Mr. Trump slumped into his chair.“Oh my God. This is terrible. This is the end of my presidency,” he said, finishing the thought with a word we can’t print in a family newsletter.Mr. Trump then “lambasted” Mr. Sessions for recusing himself from the investigation, saying his attorney general had let him down.“Everyone tells me if you get one of these independent counsels it ruins your presidency,” Mr. Trump said. “It takes years and years and I won’t be able to do anything. This is the worst thing that ever happened to me.”[Get On Politics delivered to your inbox.]The Trump campaign didn’t coordinate with the Russian government. But the two talked a lot.In the report, Mr. Mueller’s team wrote that they were not looking for “collusion” — a term they said was used in the press but has no clear legal definition. Instead, they examined whether anyone associated with Mr. Trump “coordinated” with Russians, defined as an agreement between both parties to break the law.The report does not find evidence of coordination. But it does offer a rather damning list of interactions between Trump allies and Russians.One noteworthy mention?Those infamous tapes from a Moscow hotel. In October 2016, a Russian businessman, Giorgi Rtskhiladze, texted Michael Cohen, Mr. Trump’s longtime lawyer, to say that he had “stopped flow of tapes from Russia,” a reference to claims that Mr. Trump was caught on video with prostitutes in 2013. The report notes, though, that the tapes were likely “fake.”The report also details a search by Mr. Trump’s associates for Hillary Clinton’s deleted emails, which Mr. Trump, in July 2016, publicly asked Russia to help him obtain.The president said at the time that he was joking, but in the report, Michael T. Flynn, who would later work as national security adviser, said he was asked repeatedly by Mr. Trump to find the emails. Mr. Flynn contacted multiple people to help his search, including Peter Smith, a longtime Republican operative.Mr. Smith created a company, raised tens of thousands of dollars and recruited security experts and business associates. He claimed “he was in contact with hackers ‘with ties and affiliations to Russia’ who had access to the emails, and that his efforts were coordinated with the Trump Campaign,” the report says.The special counsel couldn’t establish if that was true. But they did establish that Mr. Smith wrote to the Trump campaign’s co-chairman, Sam Clovis, among others, about his efforts.Here’s a much more expansive selection of excerpts and highlights from the report.The report doesn’t clear Mr. Trump of charges that he obstructed justice, as Attorney General William P. Barr did last month — in fact, it shows that he certainly tried to interfere.“The President’s efforts to influence the investigation were mostly unsuccessful, but that is largely because the persons who surrounded the President declined to carry out orders or accede to his requests,” wrote Mr. Mueller’s team.“If we had confidence after a thorough investigation of the facts that the president clearly did not commit obstruction of justice,” they wrote, “we would so state.”Here’s some of what they’re describing:• For 13 days after Mr. Trump asked Mr. Session to resign in May 2017, the president held on to his resignation letter, showing it to aides on Air Force One, a decision that he was warned could function as a “shock collar” to influence the Justice Department. Finally, on May 30, the president returned the letter with a notation: “Not accepted.”• Mr. Trump repeatedly called Donald F. McGahn II, the White House counsel, at home and ordered that he have Mr. Mueller removed. Mr. McGahn didn’t follow the direction, deciding he would rather resign than trigger what he regarded as a potential “Saturday Night Massacre.”• Perhaps the most damning: After reports that the president directed Mr. McGahn to remove Mr. Mueller circulated in the press in early 2018, Mr. Trump asked Mr. McGahn to deny the stories — showing that he was trying to craft a false narrative in the press about his actions. Mr. McGahn refused.Here’s a full look at the key moments in the investigation into whether Mr. Trump obstructed justice.What, exactly, is this thing?The two-volume document is a redacted version of the report written by Mr. Mueller, the special counsel, presenting the findings of his team’s investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election, and into Mr. Trump’s possible effort to influence the outcome.Mr. Barr, the attorney general, released a four-page summary of Mr. Mueller’s report last month, in which he said the investigation did not find that the Trump campaign had colluded with the Russian government and cleared the president of the charge of obstruction of justice. He reiterated those conclusions in a news conference Thursday morning before the report was released.A lot of Democrats were skeptical of Mr. Barr’s summary — particularly on the obstruction issue — and pushed for the release of the full report.What’s up with all the redactions?Mr. Barr has said the redactions — or blacked out portions of the report — were necessary to protect sensitive information, grand jury information and third parties who could be unfairly damaged. He color-coded them, using different colors to represent different types of redactions. (They have, of course, already become a meme.)A less-redacted version will be made available to a bipartisan group of congressional leaders, Mr. Barr said Thursday.What comes next?Democrats said they’re going to push for an unredacted version of the report and the underlying evidence, an effort that’s likely to end up in court — possibly the Supreme Court.Mr. Barr wants to investigate the origins of the F.B.I. investigation into Russia’s election interference, while Democrats in Congress want to probe the special counsel, attorney general and Mr. Trump’s behavior.Mr. Barr is already scheduled to testify before Congress in early May; the House Judiciary Committee said Thursday they’ll call Mr. Mueller, too. And lawmakers in the House and Senate are busy with their own investigations into matters related to the inquiry.“The responsibility now falls to Congress to hold the president accountable for his actions,” said Representative Jerry Nadler, the House judiciary chairman.Is this going to change anyone’s mind about the president?Probably not. Mr. Trump’s approval ratings have barely budged since Mr. Barr issued his summary, which left voters nearly evenly split over whether Mr. Trump had committed any serious wrongdoing — a reflection of the partisan divide over the issue. In a Washington Post-Schar School poll released last month, 51 percent of respondents said the investigation will have no effect on their 2020 vote.We know from a variety of polls that the investigation isn’t a priority for voters on either side, who are far more likely to list health care and the economy as major issues. And we also know that impeachment proceedings seem unlikely, as Speaker Nancy Pelosi signaled last month.Yes, parts of the report show Mr. Trump in an unflattering light. (He lies to aides, tries to get Mrs. Clinton’s emails and yells at his staff. A lot.) but are Americans really going to read all the fine print?[Sign up here to get On Politics in your inbox.]• Read the full report here.• Mr. Barr has played a large part in the report’s release, and has become a target of Democrats. Here are five things to know about him.• Mr. Mueller did not come to a conclusion on the charge of obstruction. But he left the door open to the possibility that after Mr. Trump leaves office, prosecutors could re-examine the evidence gathered and charge him.• Democrats running for president reacted to the day’s events, though they mostly focused on Mr. Barr’s news conference Thursday morning.• Here’s how writers on the left, right and center of the political spectrum responded to thereport.To give you a sense of scale, here’s the whole Mueller report on one page._____________________Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox.Thanks for reading. Politics is more than what goes on inside the White House. On Politics brings you the people, issues and ideas reshaping our world.Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.

Supported byHere are the key moments in the investigation into whether President Trump obstructed justice. By Michael S. Schmidt and Maggie HabermanRobert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, examined an array of actions President Trump took in office that could have constituted obstruction of justice. Ultimately, Mr. Mueller declined to make a decision about whether Mr. Trump broke the law and Attorney General William P. Barr stepped in to cleared the president of wrongdoing. Regardless of whether Mr. Trump should have been prosecuted, the episodes show a president seeking to use his power to insulate himself from a sprawling investigation that examined ties between his campaign and Russia. Yet his aides often refused to heed his commands, protecting Mr. Trump from causing significant damage to the investigation. 2016 CAMPAIGNMr. Mueller examined episodes dating back to Mr. Trump’s candidacy and showed how he misled the public on the campaign trail. During the election, Mr. Trump cast doubt about whether Russia was behind the release of emails hacked from Democrats. But according to the report, his campaign was seeking more information about how the anti-secrecy group WikiLeaks planned to release more batches of emails. At the time, Mr. Trump insisted he had no ties to Russia. But the report said that was false because “as late as June 2016 the Trump Organization had been pursing a licensing deal for a skyscraper to be built in Russia called Trump Tower Moscow.”Feb. 14, 2017Less than a month after taking office, Mr. Trump cornered the F.B.I. director, James B. Comey, in a one-on-one encounter in the Oval Office. He asked Mr. Comey to end an investigation into his first national security adviser, Michael T. Flynn. Mr. Trump called Mr. Flynn a good guy who had been through a lot, according to a memo Mr. Comey wrote at the time documenting the encounter. Mr. Comey demurred, and Mr. Flynn later pleaded guilty to lying to investigators and agreed to cooperate with Mr. Mueller. march 2017The report shows Mr. Trump’s obsession with having someone loyal to him overseeing the Russia investigation. After Mr. Trump learned that Attorney General Jeff Sessions was considering recusing himself from the investigation because of his role in Mr. Trump’s campaign, the president sought to prevent it from happening. “The president told White House counsel Donald McGahn to stop Sessions from recusing,” the report said. “And after Sessions announced his recusal on March 2, the president expressed anger at the decision and told advisers that he should have an attorney general who would protect him.” march 2017Despite Mr. Sessions’s recusal, Mr. Trump continued to lean on him. The weekend after Mr. Sessions recused himself, Mr. Trump cornered him in a meeting at Mar-a-Lago, the president’s club in Palm Beach, Fla., asking him to “unrecuse” himself from the investigation. In the weeks and months that followed, Mr. Trump sought to pressure Mr. Sessions to reassert control over the investigation. Despite the pressure, Mr. Sessions never went along with Mr. Trump’s wishes. Mr. Sessions fell out of favor with the president, who then began an effort to get Mr. Sessions to resign. march 2017The report shows how Mr. Trump tried to use all the instruments at his disposal to protect himself. After Mr. Comey testified before Congress in March 2017 that the F.B.I. was investigating links between Mr. Trump’s campaign and Russia, the president pushed his top intelligence officials — including the C.I.A. director, Mike Pompeo — to put out the word to knock down the notion that his campaign coordinated with the Russians. Around that time, Mr. Trump also reached out to Mr. Comey, despite guidance from Mr. McGahn that the president should avoid talking directly to Justice Department officials. “The president asked Comey to ‘lift the cloud’ of the Russia investigation” by saying publicly that he was not under investigation, the report said. Mr. Comey refused.May 9, 2017Mr. Trump struggled to get Mr. Comey to say publicly that he was not under investigation. Those frustrations finally came to a head in May 2017 when the president decided Mr. Comey needed to be fired. The president first said he fired Mr. Comey because of how he handled the investigation into Ms. Clinton’s emails, but he soon strayed from that explanation. Within days, Mr. Trump appeared to say in an NBC News interview that Russia was on his mind when he dismissed Mr. Comey; at another point, he told senior Russian officials in the Oval Office that, by firing Mr. Comey, he had relieved great pressure on himself. The report said that even though the White House relied on so-called independent recommendations for the dismissal from Mr. Sessions and deputy attorney general, Rod J. Rosenstein, Mr. Trump had decided to fire Mr. Comey regardless of what they said. “The day after firing Comey, the president told Russian officials that he had ‘faced great pressure because of Russia,’ which had been ‘taken off’ by Comey’s firing,” the report said. June 17, 2017After learning in May 2017 that Mr. Mueller had been appointed, Mr. Trump told advisers that it was “the end of my presidency” and demanded Mr. Sessions resign. Mr. Sessions submitted a resignation letter to Mr. Trump, who began carrying it around and asked advisers what he should do with it.In the weeks after Mr. Mueller began his work, Mr. Trump tried to force Mr. McGahn to have the Justice Department fire Mr. Mueller, citing what the president perceived as conflicts of interest. Mr. McGahn thought the president’s assertions carried little weight and refused to follow his instructions, he has told investigators. On Saturday, June 17, 2017, Mr. McGahn said, the president called him at home and insisted he have Mr. Mueller fired. Fed up with the repeated directive, Mr. McGahn drove to the White House, packed up his office and told senior White House officials that he planned to quit. They advised Mr. McGahn to ignore Mr. Trump, and the lawyer remained in his post another year.Mr. McGahn told investigators he would rather resign than “trigger what he regarded as a potential Saturday Night Massacre.”July 8, 2017Flying aboard Air Force One with aides as he returned to Washington from a Group of 20 summit meeting in Europe, Mr. Trump thrust himself into the crafting of a response to a New York Times article about a campaign meeting arranged by his son Donald Trump Jr. with a Russian lawyer promising damaging information on Hillary Clinton. Over his son’s wishes, Mr. Trump wanted the statement to give as little information as possible; his lawyers told Mr. Mueller’s team that the president “personally dictated” the response. The initial statement said only that the meeting had been “primarily” about adoptions, without acknowledging the part about Mrs. Clinton. JULY 2017Mr. Trump made two attempts to have Corey Lewandowski, his former campaign manager, influence the behavior of Mr. Sessions, according to the report. In a meeting at the White House on June 19, 2017, the president “dictated a message” for Mr. Lewandowski to deliver to Mr. Sessions, the report said. “The message said that Sessions should publicly announce that, notwithstanding his recusal from the Russia investigation, the investigation was ‘very unfair’ to the president, the president had done nothing wrong,” the report said, adding that Mr. Sessions was to announce he would let the special counsel investigation on election interference continue. A month later, in another meeting on July 19, 2017, Mr. Trump asked Mr. Lewandowski about the status of the message, and Mr. Lewandowski said it would be delivered soon. Hours later, Mr. Trump criticized Mr. Sessions in an interview with The Times. Mr. Lewandowski was “uncomfortable” delivering the message, the report said, and he asked a White House official, Rick Dearborn, who had worked previously with Mr. Sessions, to do it. Mr. Dearborn chose not to.jan. 26, 2018Mr. Trump asked aides to disavow a Times article reporting that investigators had learned of the president’s attempt to fire the special counsel and threatened to fire Mr. McGahn if he refused to rebut the news publicly. The president insisted he had never given the firing directive, and when Mr. McGahn disagreed, Mr. Trump said he did not remember it that way.april 2018The special counsel included Mr. Trump’s various interactions with his former personal lawyer, Michael D. Cohen, as part of his obstruction review. That included praise for Mr. Cohen early on, as well as Mr. Cohen’s false testimony to Congress about the length of time that a possible Trump Tower project in Moscow was being worked on during the 2016 campaign. Mr. Cohen, according to the special counsel, said he was told by a personal lawyer for the president to “stay on message.” The president’s aides had said the project discussions ended before the Iowa caucuses in January 2016. They also noted that Mr. Trump publicly called Mr. Cohen a “rat” after he cooperated with prosecutors.Michael S. Schmidt is a Washington correspondent covering national security and federal investigations. He was part of two teams that won Pulitzer Prizes in 2018 — one for reporting on workplace sexual harassment and the other for coverage of President Trump and his campaign’s ties to Russia.  @NYTMike Maggie Haberman is a White House correspondent. She joined The Times in 2015 as a campaign correspondent and was part of a team that won a Pulitzer Prize in 2018 for reporting on Donald Trump’s advisers and their connections to Russia. Previously, she worked at Politico, The New York Post and The New York Daily News.  @maggieNYT 

Supported byBy Inyoung Kang(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning,We’ve got breaking news on two continents today, a crisis at the southwestern border, and a new Brexit deadline.The WikiLeaks founder faces one count of conspiracy to hack a computer related to his role in the 2010 release of classified U.S. documents, according to court documents unsealed today shortly after his arrest in London. He was arrested at the Ecuadorean Embassy, where he had lived since 2012, after Ecuador withdrew the asylum it had granted him.President Lenín Moreno of Ecuador said that his country had decided to stop sheltering Mr. Assange after “his repeated violations to international conventions and daily-life protocols.” The background: After WikiLeaks released the classified material in 2010, Mr. Assange, 47, took refuge in the embassy two years later to avoid extradition to Sweden, where he faced questions about sexual assault allegations. He is also suspected of aiding Russian interference in the 2016 election by releasing material stolen from the Democrats.The country’s military ousted President Omar al-Bashir today, ending a 30-year authoritarian rule in the face of mass street protests.Mr. al-Bashir, 75, is accused of war crimes and is wanted by the International Criminal Court in connection with genocide in Darfur, where hundreds of thousands were killed. He was taken into custody, the government was dissolved and the Constitution suspended, the defense minister said.Some of the protesters called for caution while awaiting a statement from the military.“The uprising continues,” a spokeswoman said, adding that they would continue “until there is a complete step down of the whole regime.”Go deeper: Mr. al-Bashir liked to play up his humble origins to project a folksy image that contrasted with his image in the West, where he was often seen as a heartless warmonger.There had been warnings for years that America’s immigration system was on the brink of failure.That moment may have arrived: The country is now failing to provide either necessary humanitarian relief or basic controls on the number and nature of who comes in.By the numbers: At the current pace of nearly 100,000 migrants a month, officials say more than a million people will have tried to enter the country in a 12-month period. The flow of migrant families has reached record levels — as many as 27,000 children are expected to arrive in April.Voices: “Infectious disease is everywhere,” a Border Patrol union leader said. “It’s dangerous for our agents. It’s dangerous for the detainees that don’t have anything.”William Barr said on Wednesday that the government had surveilled Donald Trump’s presidential campaign, and that he was preparing to review “both the genesis and the conduct” of that inquiry. “I think spying on a political campaign is a big deal,” he said.Mr. Barr also offered more details of the Russia investigation by the special counsel, Robert Mueller, adding that he hoped to release the redacted report next week.Yesterday: The Treasury Department declined to immediately give President Trump’s tax returns to Congress, saying it needed more time to assess the lawfulness of the request. Here’s what we might learn from the documents.Looking ahead: Gregory Craig, a White House counsel during the Obama administration, is expected to be indicted on charges related to his work for Ukraine, his lawyers said. The case stemmed from an investigation initiated by Mr. Mueller’s office.As companies and governments gain new abilities to follow people across the internet and around the world, the costs and benefits of technological advances are becoming clearer.The Times is beginning a project to explore the debate around those changes.See for yourself: What do you think should be private? Take our survey.Quote of note: “We in the West are building a surveillance state,” our columnist writes. “But while China is doing it through government, we are doing it through corporations and consumer products, in the absence of any real regulation that recognizes the stakes at hand.”Huaraz, a Peruvian city of 130,000, sits about 14 miles below this swelling glacial lake. Many residents live in fear that an avalanche could cause a flood that would wipe away their homes.Our Sunday Magazine’s climate issue looks at how and why a Peruvian farmer sued a German utility company — and what the effort might teach us about litigating a complex global problem.Brexit extension: European Union leaders have agreed to push the deadline for Britain’s departure from the bloc to Oct. 31, staving off a potentially chaotic, no-deal exit that had been scheduled for Friday.Aftermath of Israeli vote: With nearly all of the votes from Tuesday’s election counted, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu was poised for a fifth term. The results attest to the starkly conservative vision of Israeli voters, our Jerusalem bureau chief writes in a news analysis.Elections in India: Voting began today in the world’s largest democracy. Here’s a guide to the election, which lasts five weeks and involves 900 million voters.Uber I.P.O.: The ride-hailing giant told some investors that a public stock sale could give the company a $100 billion valuation — below a $120 billion that investment bankers had floated. Its shares are expected to begin trading next month.National Enquirer: The tabloid is nearing a sale, the publisher said. Its owner is said to have grown uncomfortable being at the center of a federal inquiry over claims by Jeff Bezos that it had threatened him.Snapshot: Above, scientists on Wednesday released the first-ever view of a black hole, at the heart of a galaxy some 55 million light-years from Earth. “We have seen what we thought was unseeable,” said Shep Doeleman, the director of the effort to capture the image.Late-night comedy: Samantha Bee drew on “The Wizard of Oz” in discussing the departure of Kirstjen Nielsen, who “stepped down as Homeland Security secretary, presumably to spend more time with her family after a house fell on her sister.” What we’re reading: Comic strips on Instagram. Michael Roston, a science editor, writes: “If you really miss the funny pages in newspapers of yore, try Instagram. For months, my feed has been dominated by comics made for the medium, and I couldn’t be happier. Once you follow a few, Instagram’s algorithm will serve up more. Here’s a starter pack: Strange Planet, Rubyetc and They Can Talk.”Cook: Lemony whipped feta pairs well with pita chips or raw vegetables.Watch: A boy discovers his superpowers in a scene from “Shazam!,” with commentary from the film’s director, David F. Sandberg.Listen: Tayla Parx has helped several pop stars, including Ariana Grande, refresh their sound. Her own debut album is “We Need to Talk.”Read: “The Heart of a Boy,” a collection of photographs celebrating boyhood by Kate T. Parker, debuts on our paperback nonfiction best-seller list.Smarter Living: A computer science professor offers clear guidance on digital decluttering: Remove most apps from your phone and use them on a browser instead. And spend leisure time doing activities that have nothing to do with glowing screens.Here are five things to help you free yourself from smartphone dependence.“Star Wars” aficionados, some in Wookiee fur, are gathering for Celebration, a marketing stunt in galactic disguise, organized by Disney’s Lucasfilm. The 13th installment begins in Chicago today.Disney wants to rally the faithful for the December release of the next “Star Wars” episode. The title is to be announced on Friday.Billions of dollars in movie tickets, merchandise and video-on-demand rentals are on the line.Safe to say it will not be “Episode IX — We Will Keep This Going Until Tatooine Freezes Over.”“Make Alderaan Great Again”? Or a musical? “A Death Star Is Born.”Fans have spent months guessing. A Reddit user floated “Balance of the Force,” citing coding buried on StarWars.com. The subtitles do tend to be something of the something — “Return of the Jedi,” “Attack of the Clones,” “Revenge of the Sith.”The promotion can either help fans to move past their grouchiness about the eighth movie, “The Last Jedi,” or prompt another rebellion that will send Disney marketers to battle positions.This morning has been busy, but that’s it for this briefing. See you next time.— InyoungThank youTo Chris Stanford, who helped compile today’s briefing, and to Mark Josephson, Eleanor Stanford, Chris Harcum and James K. Williamson for the break from the news. Brooks Barnes, our reporter for all things Hollywood, wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about Israel’s election.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Swirl of water (4 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • The New York Times Company named a vice president of corporate security last week: Jason Reich, the former director of global security for BuzzFeed Inc.Inyoung Kang is an editor and producer based in London.  @inyoungk 

Supported byLet us help you start your day. By Melina Delkic(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning,We start today with the arrest of Julian Assange, the second launch of the world’s most powerful rocket and a very good dog.After Julian Assange, the WikiLeaks founder, was charged with conspiracy to hack a government computer, a picture emerged of his seven years of hiding in the Ecuadorean Embassy in London.He lived with his cat in a small corner room, as the world’s most famous self-proclaimed political refugee. He continued to run his internet group, held news conferences and hosted a parade of visitors, including Lady Gaga.Ultimately, he became an unwanted houseguest. He skateboarded around the halls and played soccer with guests, causing damage to the building. The Ecuadorean president accused him of gaining access to the embassy’s security files without permission and mistreating personnel.The case: American prosecutors said that, in March 2010, Mr. Assange agreed to help Chelsea Manning crack a password on a Defense Department computer to reach restricted classified government documents and communications. Press freedom advocates were relieved the charge was narrow. Read our explainer about the concerns around press freedoms.The country’s defense secretary, Lt. Gen. Awad Mohamed Ahmed Ibn Auf, announced a two-year transition period after the military ousted President Omar Hassan al-Bashir on Thursday, ending his 30-year authoritarian rule in the face of mass street protests.Mr. al-Bashir, 75, is wanted by the International Criminal Court in connection with a genocide in the Darfur region that killed hundreds of thousands of people.What’s next: Protesters’ jubilation has been tempered by uncertainty about the future. The military dissolved the government and suspended the Constitution. A curfew between 10 p.m. and 4 a.m. is in effect. The defense minister who took over had also been accused of perpetrating war crimes and was a confidant of Mr. al-Bashir.Go deeper: Mr. al-Bashir has long promoted a folksy image at home that was a jarring contrast with his image in the West, where he was seen as a heartless warmonger and as a coddler of terrorists like Osama bin Laden.The SpaceX Falcon Heavy rocket lifted off for a second time, improving on its first test launch last year. It carried a Saudi Arabian communications satellite that will relay television, internet and mobile phone signals to the Middle East, Africa and Europe. Watch the video of the blastoff and landing of the most powerful rocket in operation.Next flight: One more Falcon Heavy flight is scheduled for this year — a mission for the U.S. Air Force carrying 25 small satellites.In other space news: For 340 days, the astronaut Scott Kelly gathered data about himself while aboard the International Space Station. On Earth, his brother completed the same tests. They offered a comparison of what happens to the human body in space. Some changes in his body — including genetic mutations and, after his return, declines in cognitive test scores — did not correct themselves, provoking concern among scientists.As companies and governments gain new powers to follow people across the internet and around the world, The Times is embarking on a monthslong privacy project to explore the technology and where it’s taking us. “It seems like a good moment to pause and consider the choices we’ve already made, and the ones that lie ahead,” the editor of our editorial page explains in an introduction.Our publisher, A. G. Sulzberger, says The Times is examining its own data collection, too.Where would you draw the line? Take our survey about what you think should be private. We are also collecting stories of how lives have been altered by this sharing of information, whether by our own choice or by theft.Indians have at times seemed fond of kicking their leaders to the curb. Prime ministers serve without term limits, but only seven have made it through a single full term. Does that mean voters are fickle?Not according to Prannoy Roy, co-founder of India’s NDTV news channel and one of the country’s most respected poll analysts. He chalks it up to something else: increasing maturity.“In the first 25 years, governments and prime ministers used to be re-elected quite frequently,” he said in a phone interview. Voters were at the time buoyed by post-independence optimism.But over time they became less starry-eyed and began going against ruling parties at national and state levels more than 70 percent of the time, said Mr. Roy, co-author of “The Verdict: Decoding India’s Elections.”The earlier years after India gained independence in 1947 were marred by slow growth and corruption, and angry voters started throwing out almost everyone in power.Today, though, that anger has tempered and voters “are much more discerning,” Mr. Roy said. They are looking for politicians who deliver real, on-the-ground results.And that, he said, is a sign of “a vibrant, working democracy.” — Alisha Haridasani GuptaSend us your feedback or questions on this series here.Russia: Lawmakers approved a bill that some worry will open the door to sweeping censorship. The legislation is designed to route web traffic through filters controlled by the state communications watchdog. It also provides for an independent Russian internet that could function even if cut off from the global web.Vatican: Pope Benedict XVI, who declared he would remain “hidden to the world” in retirement, put the blame for the clerical sexual abuse crisis on the sexual revolution of the 1960s, liberal theology and the disappearance of God from public discourse in the West.Brexit: Prime Minister Theresa May prepared for backlash after accepting a second delay to Britain’s departure from the European Union. But what exhausted lawmakers really want is a vacation. Germany: An artist who built a replica Holocaust memorial next to the home of a far-right politician was the subject of a 16-month criminal inquiry. Prominent figures want to know why.Snapshot: The very good dog above, Cactus, has been running alongside humans in the Marathon des Sables, a 140.7-mile race through the Sahara in southern Morocco. “That dog was a beast,” one envious runner said. “He ran right past me and I couldn’t keep up.”Women in science: Capturing the first image of a black hole was an effort that required more than 200 researchers. About 40 of them were women, and one, Katie Bouman, became a face for the massive project when she posted a picture of herself celebrating the effort.What we’re reading: This excoriating essay in The Atlantic. “The writer, Caitlin Flanagan, was once an unhappy college counselor at a private school in Los Angeles,” says Lynda Richardson, an editor for Travel. “She’s uniquely equipped to dissect the parental behavior in the college cheating scandal. Entitlement doesn’t even begin to cover what she finds in the court documents.”Cook: Have a birthday coming up? No? This rainbow sprinkle cake doesn’t need an occasion.Watch: Alex Ross Perry’s new feature, “Her Smell,” focuses on an all-female band’s lead singer (a raw, charismatic Elisabeth Moss) as she runs off the rails.Listen: George Crumb, one of the most beloved voices in contemporary music, turns 90 this year. The Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center is presenting two concerts in tribute, but if you can’t make those, we’ve included a Spotify playlist of his compositions.Read: In “Horizon,” the environmentalist Barry Lopez reconstructs decades’ worth of his observations of the natural world, from the Arctic to Australia. It’s one of eight new books we recommend this week.Smarter Living: Your environmental impact extends out your front door. Even if you don’t share the American passion for care-intensive grassy lawns, there are ways to go greener. Try low-maintenance ground cover and plants native to your area — but take care to avoid invasive ones. Whatever you plant, avoid pesticides and aerate the soil instead.And we have guidance on how to go paperless on tax records — securely. Want to go to a party tonight? You could say yes, but you could also say “Poyekhali!” (poe-YEK-hoe-lee). That’s “Let’s go!” in Russian.That’s what the cosmonaut Yuri Gagarin radioed to controllers during liftoff for the world’s first manned spaceflight, 58 years ago today. The term will be bandied around the world this evening, in Yuri’s Night celebrations.The Soviet Union commemorated the flight by establishing Cosmonautics Day, which has been celebrated since with parades and space-themed events.The hipper Yuri’s Night began in the U.S. in 2000, with raves and parties for scientists. It caught on. The crew of the International Space Station sometimes sends greetings.Parties are planned on (at least) five continents, including at a research station in Antarctica.Loretta Hidalgo Whitesides, a writer, public speaker and spaceflight proponent who founded Yuri’s Night with her husband, urges partyers to “have a beer with a rocket scientist.”That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.— MelinaThank youTo Mark Josephson, Eleanor Stanford and James K. Williamson for the break from the news. Andrew Kramer, our Moscow correspondent, wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” The latest episode is about Israel’s election.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Fruit sometimes added to salsa (5 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • Dennis Overbye, who writes about the cosmos for The New York Times, answered readers’ questions on black holes and his life as a science reporter on Reddit. Melina Delkic is a senior staff editor.  @MelinaDelkic 

Supported byBy Stephen Hiltner(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning,We start today with the arrest of Julian Assange, the ousting of Sudan’s authoritarian president and a new ruling on abortions in South Korea.Mr. Assange is in custody in London, after being arrested at the Ecuadorean Embassy, where he had lived since 2012.He faces an extradition warrant filed by the U.S., which unsealed an indictment of one count of conspiracy to hack a computer, related to his role in the 2010 release of classified U.S. documents. The charge is narrow, to the relief of press freedom advocates. Read the indictment.Timing: Relations with his hosts had frayed badly, including disputes over his cat and personal hygiene, and his behavior in the embassy’s small offices. President Lenín Moreno said that the decision to drop asylum protections for Mr. Assange came after “his repeated violations to international conventions and daily-life protocols.” Watch: Mr. Assange’s removal from the embassy was recorded by Ruptly, the video service of Russia’s state-financed international cable network RT. Background: Mr. Assange, 47, took refuge in the embassy seven years ago to avoid extradition to Sweden, where he faced questions about sexual assault allegations. He is also suspected of aiding Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. presidential election by releasing material stolen from the Democrats.The country’s defense secretary, Lt. Gen. Awad Mohamed Ahmed Ibn Auf, announced a two-year transition period after the military ousted President Omar Hassan al-Bashir on Thursday, ending his 30-year authoritarian rule in the face of mass street protests.Mr. al-Bashir, 75, is wanted by the International Criminal Court in connection with a genocide in the Darfur region that killed hundreds of thousands of people.What’s next: Protesters’ jubilation has been tempered by a wary uncertainty about the future. The military dissolved the government and suspended the Constitution. A curfew between 10 p.m. and 4 a.m. is in effect for at least a month.Go deeper: Mr. al-Bashir has long promoted a folksy image at home that was a jarring contrast with his image in the West, where he was seen as a heartless warmonger and as a coddler of terrorists like Osama bin Laden.The country’s Constitutional Court on Thursday gave Parliament until the end of 2020 to revise a 66-year-old law that made abortion a crime. If lawmakers do not meet that deadline, the law will become null and void. The law remains in force, but the ban has rarely been enforced. On the books, a woman who undergoes an abortion can be punished by up to one year in prison or face a fine of up to 2 million won, or about $1,750.Context: Calls to enforce the law have grown as the country has tried to reverse its falling birthrate, now one of the lowest in the world.As companies and governments gain new abilities to follow people across the internet and around the world, the costs and benefits of technological advances are becoming clearer.The Times is beginning a project to explore the debate around those changes.See for yourself: What do you think should be private? Take our survey.Quote of note: “We in the West are building a surveillance state,” our columnist Farhad Manjoo writes. “But while China is doing it through government, we are doing it through corporations and consumer products, in the absence of any real regulation that recognizes the stakes at hand.”At The Times: Our publisher, A.G. Sulzberger, addresses how we think about the privacy of our readers. Indians have at times seemed fond of kicking their leaders to the curb. Prime ministers serve without term limits, but only seven have made it through a single full term. Does that mean voters are fickle?Not according to Prannoy Roy, co-founder of India’s NDTV news channel and one of the country’s most respected poll analysts. He chalks it up to something else: increasing maturity.“In the first 25 years, governments and prime ministers used to be re-elected quite frequently,” he said in a phone interview. Voters were at the time buoyed by post-independence optimism.But over time they became less starry-eyed and began going against ruling parties at national and state levels more than 70 percent of the time, said Mr. Roy, co-author of “The Verdict: Decoding India’s Elections.”The earlier years after India gained independence in 1947 were marred by slow growth and corruption, and angry voters started throwing out almost everyone in power.Today, though, that anger has tempered and voters “are much more discerning,” Mr. Roy said. They are looking for politicians who deliver real, on-the-ground results.And that, he said, is a sign of “a vibrant, working democracy.” — Alisha Haridasani GuptaSend us your feedback or questions on this series here.Brexit extension: European Union leaders have agreed to push the deadline for Britain’s departure from the bloc to Oct. 31, staving off a chaotic, no-deal exit that had been scheduled for today.Australia: Prime Minister Scott Morrison declared a federal election for May 18, kicking off a short campaign in a country wrestling with issues such as climate change and how to contend with China’s reach.Terrorism trials: U.S. prosecutors have made a renewed effort to charge three prisoners at the Guantánamo Bay prison, including a captive known as Hambali, with conspiring in two deadly terrorist bombings in Indonesia in 2002 and 2003.Snapshot: Above, Chongqing, a sprawling metropolis in southwestern China where, our Shanghai bureau chief writes, a younger generation has come to expect both prosperity and personal fulfillment.Geoffrey Rush: The actor won a defamation case against the parent company of a tabloid newspaper in Sydney that published articles accusing him of sexual harassment.Space travel: NASA scientists compared the astronaut Scott Kelly to his earthbound twin, Mark. The results hint at what humans will have to endure on long journeys through space.Morocco: The Marathon des Sables, a 140.7-mile race across the Sahara, is for people — but try telling that to Cactus, the dog that loves to run.From The Times: After a recent article about the gender imbalance in domestic work in Japan, we asked readers to share their experiences. Several mothers and fathers shared their tips for a more equitable relationship.What we’re reading: This excoriating essay in The Atlantic. “The writer, Caitlin Flanagan, was once an unhappy college counselor at a private school in Los Angeles,” says Lynda Richardson, an editor for Travel. “She’s uniquely equipped to dissect the parental behavior in the college cheating scandal. Entitlement doesn’t even begin to cover what she finds in the court documents.”Cook: Have a birthday coming up? No? This rainbow sprinkle cake doesn’t need an occasion.Watch: A boy discovers his superpowers in a scene from “Shazam!,” with commentary from the film’s director, David Sandberg.Listen: Tayla Parx is a 25-year-old former child actress who’s been helping pop stars, including Ariana Grande, refresh their sound. Her own newly released debut album is “We Need to Talk.”Read: “The Heart of a Boy,” a collection of photographs celebrating boyhood by Kate T. Parker, debuts on our paperback nonfiction best-seller list.Smarter Living: Your environmental impact extends out your front door. Even if you don’t share the American passion for care-intensive grassy lawns, there are ways to go greener. Try low-maintenance ground cover and plants native to your area — but take care to avoid invasive ones. Whatever you plant, avoid pesticides and aerate the soil instead.And we have guidance on how to go paperless on tax records — securely.Want to go to a party tonight? You could say yes, but you could also say “Poyekhali!” (poe-YEK-hoe-lee). That’s “Let’s go!” in Russian.That’s what the cosmonaut Yuri Gagarin radioed to controllers during liftoff for the world’s first manned spaceflight, 58 years ago today. The term will be bandied around the world this evening, in Yuri’s Night celebrations.The Soviet Union commemorated the flight by establishing Cosmonautics Day, which has been celebrated since with parades and space-themed events.The hipper Yuri’s Night began in the U.S. in 2000, with raves and parties for scientists. It caught on. The crew of the International Space Station sometimes sends greetings.Parties are planned on (at least) five continents, including at a research station in Antarctica.Loretta Hidalgo Whitesides, a writer, public speaker and spaceflight proponent who founded Yuri’s Night with her husband, urges partyers to “have a beer with a rocket scientist.”That’s it for this briefing. See you next time. (Or, for the Yuri’s Nighters among you: Do svidaniya!)— StephenThank youTo Mark Josephson, Eleanor Stanford and James K. Williamson for the break from the news. Andrew Kramer, our Moscow correspondent, wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” The latest episode is about Israel’s election.• Here’s the latest mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Swirl of water (4 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • Dennis Overbye, who writes about the cosmos for The New York Times, answered readers questions on black holes and his life as a science reporter on Reddit. Stephen Hiltner is a reporter and photographer for the Surfacing column. A graduate of the University of Oxford and the University of Virginia, he joined The Times as a staff editor in 2016 after editing for six years at The Paris Review.  @sahiltner • Facebook 

Supported byGood Monday. (Want this ny email? Sign up here.)Saudi Aramco began a road show to pitch prospective investors on a $10 billion bond offering, providing a peek into the state-owned oil company’s books — and showing how incredibly profitable it is.Aramco made $111.1 billion in profit last year, according to data provided to credit ratings agencies. That means it was the world’s most profitable company in 2018, Bloomberg notes, making more than Apple and Alphabet combined.The company produced 13.6 million barrels of oil equivalent a day last year, which far surpasses any other producer, such as Royal Dutch Shell or BP.The disclosures finally shed light on the oil company’s finances and operations. (They were necessary as part of the bond offering that will support Aramco’s $69 billion deal to buy control of a Saudi chemical company, Sabic.)Credit ratings agencies were impressed. Moody’s assigned Aramco’s bonds an A1 rating (though still below the Aaa that it gave to Exxon Mobil). The agency said the biggest risk to the rating was any downgrade to Saudi Arabia’s own financial picture.Facebook’s C.E.O. wrote an opinion piece for the WaPo on Saturday laying out how he believes his company should be treated. His top policy executive, Nick Clegg, echoed its points in an interview with Politico. Here’s how Mike Isaac of the NYT reads between the lines:• Harmful content. Mr. Zuckerberg called for lawmakers to decide “what counts as terrorist propaganda, hate speech and more.” By adhering to the letter of the law, Facebook can effectively shield itself from blame if something goes awry.• Election protection. “Our systems would be more effective if regulation created common standards for verifying political actors,” Mr. Zuckerberg wrote. That would serve Facebook well, Mr. Isaac writes: “When the next erroneous outburst inevitably occurs, Facebook could point toward the law it was forced to follow.”• Privacy and data protection issues. “I believe it would be good for the internet if more countries adopted regulation such as G.D.P.R. as a common framework,” Mr. Zuckerberg wrote, referring to Europe’s data protection rule. If laws are enacted to limit data collection in the future, Mr. Isaac notes, Facebook might be able to squash smaller competitors.• Data portability. “Regulation should guarantee the principle of data portability,” Mr. Zuckerberg wrote. Facebook claims its users would be able to freely take their information from one network to the next, Mr. Isaac says. But in reality, data portability could help the company combine its platforms, which include Instagram and WhatsApp.More: Facebook will start explaining why people are being shown content in their news feed. The company “mistakenly deleted” many of Mr. Zuckerberg’s old posts. And lawmakers in Australia and New Zealand want to ban “weaponized” social media.As the two countries nudge ever closer to striking an agreement, Ana Swanson and Keith Bradsher of the NYT explain how one of its key tenets could undercut Washington’s vision:• “Any agreement seems certain to involve China’s promise to purchase hundreds of billions of dollars of American goods. For Mr. Trump, this is an essential element that will help reduce the United States’ record trade deficit with China.”• “But those purchases will be ordered by the Chinese state, and most will be carried out by state-controlled Chinese businesses, further cementing Beijing’s role in managing its economy and potentially making United States industries even more beholden to the Chinese.”“Both sides are trying to iron out an agreement by next week, to coincide with a visit to Washington by Liu He, the Chinese special envoy charged with negotiating the deal,” Ms. Swanson and Mr. Bradsher write. The goal is reportedly “to have an agreement by the end of that meeting, with a signing ceremony between Mr. Trump and President Xi Jinping of China potentially later this month.”But there are still sticking points. “Those include how an agreement will be monitored and enforced, and how many of Mr. Trump’s tariffs come off and when,” according to Ms. Swanson and Mr. Bradsher.The ride-hailing company began trading on the public markets on Friday, with its stock closing up about 9 percent. But the file of winners is bigger than just those who bought into the stock before it listed:• Gig economy start-ups. Lyft showed that there’s interest in the public markets for companies that rely on part-time employees. (But the big question is still whether they can ever make money.)• The Golden State, truly. Lyft’s success bodes well for its home state, California, which is set to collect a capital-gains tax bonanza from the tech companies planning to go public this year. Alejandro Lazo of the WSJ reports that the state is already expected to draw nearly 10 percent of its revenue for the next fiscal year from tech I.P.O.s — a figure that could grow if the offerings perform better than expected.• Uber. The world’s largest ride-hailing company will probably be heartened by Lyft’s success. One unnamed investor told the FT that a $120 billion valuation for Uber now “doesn’t look too unreasonable.”Who didn’t win: Anyone who bought shares in Lyft after it listed on the Nasdaq.More: Meet the V.C.s who are expected to be big winners from the coming wave of tech I.P.O.s.After rejecting Prime Minister Theresa May’s withdrawal deal for a third time on Friday, British lawmakers will attempt again to come up with an alternative.Parliament will vote on options later today. There are eight proposals, none of which won a majority when they were voted on last week. John Bercow, the speaker of the House of Commons, may trim down the options, which could force cohesion around a plan. Mrs. May continues to scramble. The FT reports that she is considering a fourth vote on her deal, while she grapples with a breakdown of trust inside her Conservative Party.If Parliament remains deadlocked, Britain faces a choice: Leave the European Union without a deal on April 12, or ask Brussels for another extension.There is a feeling of anger and embarrassment. “In interviews, many Britons expressed despair over the inability of the political system to produce a compromise,” Ellen Barry and Benjamin Mueller of the NYT write. “No one feels that the government has represented their interests. No one is satisfied. No one is hopeful. It has amounted to a hollowing out of confidence in democracy itself.”More:  There is at least one Brexit winner in Britain: the corporate law industry, which is profiting from companies trying to prepare.The Amazon chief’s security consultant accused the Saudi government of gaining unauthorized access to Mr. Bezos’ phone, Karen Weise of the NYT reports:• “In an opinion article in The Daily Beast on Saturday, Gavin de Becker, Mr. Bezos’ security chief, alleged the Saudis wanted to hurt Mr. Bezos because he owns The Washington Post. The Post has aggressively reported on the murder of Jamal Khashoggi, one of its columnists, who was killed last year in Turkey.”• “Mr. de Becker’s claims about the Saudis are difficult to verify and raise many questions. Throughout his article, the security consultant was vague on details.”• “On Sunday, American Media Inc., the parent company of The National Enquirer, which first reported earlier this year that Mr. Bezos was having an extramarital affair, issued a statement denying ‘the false and unsubstantiated claims of Mr. de Becker.’ ”State lawmakers reached a $175 billion budget deal over the weekend. It promises sweeping changes to the way New Yorkers commute, shop and live, the NYT reports.Congestion pricing — a first in the U.S. — will subject vehicles traveling below 60th Street in Manhattan to a toll. The revenue will go toward the subway and other transportation projects. Specifics, like what the charge will be, have been deferred to other authorities.The state also banned single-use plastic shopping bags, following California and Hawaii.But it dropped plans for a recurring “pied-à-terre tax” of 5 percent on the value of high-end second homes, after opposition from the real estate industry. Instead, lawmakers adopted a “mansion tax” and a real estate transfer tax, two one-time charges that would top out at 4.15 percent on the sale of properties worth at least $25 million.The Louis Dreyfus Company reportedly ousted Gonzalo Ramírez Martiarena as C.E.O. after he started holding deal talks with rivals.Alok Sama, the C.F.O. of SoftBank’s international arm, is reportedly leaving the Japanese tech giant.Deals• The activist hedge fund Starboard Value has dropped its campaign against Bristol-Myers Squibb’s deal to buy Celgene. (CNBC)• The talent agency Endeavor is reportedly preparing an I.P.O. later this year. (WSJ)• Vivendi withdrew a motion to replace directors of Telecom Italia, conceding defeat to Elliott Management. (Bloomberg)• Jonathan Lavine, a managing partner of Bain Capital, worries that private equity firms are piling too much debt onto their deals. (FT)• European lenders are starting to grow wary of giving money to WeWork. (Bloomberg)Politics and policy• President Trump reportedly thinks that a lawsuit to overturn the Affordable Care Act — which his administration is backing — will fail. (Axios)• A federal judge ruled against the White House’s plan to open up the Arctic Ocean for oil drilling. (NYT)• Joe Biden scrambled to defend himself after a former Nevada lawmaker accused him of inappropriately kissing and touching her. (NYT)• Senator Elizabeth Warren has lost her presidential campaign’s finance director after a disagreement over abandoning big-ticket donors. (NYT)• Mr. Trump reportedly wants to “save” Ruth Bader Ginsburg’s seat on the Supreme Court for Amy Coney Barrett, a conservative federal judge who opposes abortion. (Axios)Boeing• The inquiry into the fatal Ethiopian Airlines crash is said to believe a faulty anti-stall sensor was to blame. (NYT)• “Pitch up, pitch up”: the final minutes of the doomed flight. (WSJ)• U.S. and Ethiopian investigators are reportedly clashing over the investigation. (WSJ)Tech• The initial coin offering market has ground to a halt. (WSJ)• Google has stopped serving ads in China for two websites that help bypass censorship. Skeptics say the move is an attempt to appeal to Beijing. (FT)• Alphabet’s A.I. subsidiary, DeepMind, is readying its first commercial product: a device that will diagnose some complex eye diseases in real time. (FT)• Some consumers are accusing Tesla of using upselling tricks to move more expensive cars. (Quartz)Best of the rest• Michael Avenatti has taken on many high-profile legal fights, but his biggest yet is his own court case. (NYT)• How the financier Morrie Tobin became the whistle-blower in the college admissions scandal. (LAT)• A federal judge wants to limit PG&amp;E’s dividends to force the utility to reduce the risk of causing California wildfires. (WSJ)• How tens of thousands of far-right extremists helped swindle $1 billion from the federal government. (NYT)• Burger King is introducing a meat-free “Impossible Whopper.” (NYT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.

Supported byGood Tuesday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)That was fast: On their second day of trading yesterday, shares in Lyft fell 12 percent, to $69.01, below their I.P.O. price. That darkens the outlook for the ride-hailing company, and for other tech unicorns planning to go public.Lyft crashed below its I.P.O. price quickly. Other tech companies with big losses, like Groupon, Twitter and Snap, have suffered the same fate, but it took a while — almost two weeks, for Groupon.Investors may be worried about Lyft’s losses. The company lost nearly $1 billion last year. And it can’t say when it will turn a profit, as it plans to invest heavily in technology like autonomous vehicles.Other I.P.O. candidates have reason to worry, too. Lyft’s troubles suggest that no one — not underwriters nor investors — knows how to value a company with such sharp growth and steep losses. “The ones following in the wake of Lyft will be priced more reasonably,” Kathleen Smith of Renaissance Capital said.Lyft should expect more pain. Short-sellers, who profit when a company’s stock price goes down, are expected to bet against it within days.Facebook still hasn’t solved its many problems with hosting false or misleading information, but Mark Zuckerberg says that it may start a dedicated news service.• In India, Facebook is struggling to cope with disinformation and hate speech circulating ahead of elections. When local news outlets have raced to post “exclusive” information about hostilities between India and Pakistan, for instance, much of it has been false.• Singapore has stopped waiting for Facebook to clamp down on false information and introduced draft legislation that would, among other things, require websites to run corrections alongside “online falsehoods” and would “cut off profits” of sites that spread it.Against that backdrop, Mr. Zuckerberg is pitching the idea of a dedicated news service on Facebook. In an interview with Mathias Döpfner, the C.E.O. of the German publisher Axel Springer, he explained how a dedicated tab on the social network could feature content from third-party publishers — which Facebook might pay for.“It’s important to me that we help people get trustworthy news and find solutions that help journalists around the world do their important work,” Mr. Zuckerberg said.The plane maker has pushed back the timeline for updating the anti-stall software under suspicion in two recent fatal crashes, David Gelles of the NYT reports.Boeing was hoping to submit a fix to the Federal Aviation Administration this week.  But employees who reviewed the update appear to have raised concerns about it, Mr. Gelles reports. It isn’t clear what their issues were.“Time is needed for additional work by Boeing as the result of an ongoing review of the 737 Max Flight Control System to ensure that Boeing has identified and appropriately addressed all pertinent issues,” the F.A.A. said in a statement yesterday.Meanwhile, Boeing’s problems are growing. “Some airlines are demanding that Boeing compensate them for lost revenues as they cancel flights and their planes sit idle. At least one airline is seeking to cancel its deal to buy more Max jets,” Mr. Gelles writes.And lawyers are preparing for battle. Families in the Ethiopian Airlines crash are likely to sue Boeing and the carrier.More: After the crash of a Lion Air flight last year, Boeing reportedly suggested foreign pilots were at fault. And Singapore Airlines grounded two Boeing 787-10s after inspections revealed premature engine deterioration.A year ago several big names in the world of finance were making grand plans to enter the cryptocurrency markets. Most of those efforts are now faltering, Nathaniel Popper of the NYT reports.• “Goldman Sachs said it was opening a Bitcoin trading operation to serve clients. A year later, customer interest has been weak, and the bank has not received regulatory approval to buy and hold actual Bitcoins for customers.”• “The parent company of the New York Stock Exchange has been forced to delay the opening of the cryptocurrency exchange it announced last year, and there is still no clear sign of when it will get the approval needed from regulators.”• “The Chicago Board Options Exchange said last month that it was going to stop offering a Bitcoin trading contract that it started with great fanfare in late 2017.”“The smart money knows that crypto is not ready,” Ciaran Murray, a cryptocurrency trader in London, told Mr. Popper.Enthusiasts had hoped Wall Street would legitimize cryptocurrencies and encourage more traditional investors to buy them. But the second-guessing at big financial institutions shows how hard it is to take a technology “from the fringes of the internet into the mainstream financial world,” Mr. Popper writes.Britain’s Parliament reached no majority yesterday on proposals for the country’s exit from the E.U., worsening the disarray over Brexit less than two weeks before the deadline to depart, Stephen Castle of the NYT reports.“The plan that lost most narrowly was for a customs union that would keep Britain in the same tariff system as the rest of the European Union countries, tying the country closely to the bloc. It failed 276-273.”“The failure to agree on any of them means Britain is facing the deadline with nothing resolved and all the options remaining on the table,” Mr. Castle writes. “It also underscores the stalemate in Parliament where different factions appear unable to compromise enough to swing behind any one vision for Brexit.”“Something will have to give soon, however. By April 10, Mrs. May needs to get a Brexit agreement through Parliament or ask the leaders of the European Union for a longer delay if she wants to avoid leaving without a deal,” Mr. Castle adds. A last-resort option: a general election.Mrs. May’s cabinet will hold a five-hour meeting today, which the FT says “is likely to be a brutal and potentially decisive meeting to discuss what route, if any, can be charted.” Parliament is expected to debate Brexit again tomorrow, and may attempt to wrest control from Mrs. May once more.More: Brexit hasn’t officially happened, but it has already cooled investment and damaged the nation’s reputation as a haven for commerce. And banks haven’t moved many people in the run-up to the departure from the E.U. — yet. As the M.&amp;A. boom declines, top investment bankers are scrounging around for much smaller transactions than they once handled, Liz Hoffman of the WSJ reports.• “ ‘Every 10 years or so, the big banks get the idea to move in,’ said Mark Brady, head of mergers and acquisitions at William Blair &amp; Co., a Chicago-based firm where the average deal is $400 million. ‘As soon as there’s a down-cycle, they disappear.’ ”• JPMorgan Chase bankers, who helped arrange the $74 billion sale of Celgene, sought business from Cianna, a medical company with $40 million in revenue. “I kept saying, tell me again why you’re interested in this deal?” Cianna’s then-C.E.O. told the WSJ.• And “a Goldman Sachs Group Inc. partner cold-called his way onto a $162 million stock-offering deal for a Texas-based chemicals company.”• There’s an advantage to smaller deals, Ms. Hoffman writes: “While fees in the middle market are smaller, they are typically split between fewer banks. Deals also close faster and require fewer staff than complex, trans-Atlantic takeovers.”Trump administration officials worry that the world’s wireless networks will be dominated by Huawei, the Chinese telecom company they have tried to block as a security threat, Ellen Nakashima and Souad Mekhennet of the WaPo report.• “Officials have begun discussing ways to use encryption, segmented network components and stronger standards to protect key systems.”• “Officials have not let up on their campaign to urge other countries to block Huawei — a firm with close ties to the Chinese government — from their burgeoning 5G networks, which will power everything from self-driving cars to military operations.”• “But they are cognizant that many countries already use low-cost Huawei equipment and will probably continue to rely on it as they transition to the next generation of mobile telecommunications.”• “ ‘You have to presume a dirty network,’ Sue Gordon, a senior U.S. intelligence official, said recently. ‘That’s what we’re going to have to presume about the world.’ ”Michael Cerda, the head of product for Goldman Sachs’s consumer division, Marcus, has reportedly quit.Deals• Paul Jacobs, the former chairman of Qualcomm, has finally given up his quest to buy his old employer. (WSJ)• Kellogg agreed to sell its Keebler and Famous Amos cookie brands to Ferrero for $1.3 billion. (CNBC)• Andreessen Horowitz is celebrating after having backed Lyft, PagerDuty and other unicorns now set to go public in big I.P.O.s. (FT)• Tencent plans to sell $5 billion in bonds to raise money and fight new rivals. (FT)• Toast, which makes restaurant management software, has raised $250 million at a $2.7 billion valuation from investors like TCV and Tiger Global Management. (TechCrunch)Politics and policy• President Trump tweeted that Republicans wouldn’t try to replace the Affordable Care Act until after 2020. (Axios)• The Trump administration is moving to limit claims of employment-law violations by franchisees and contractors. (NYT)• A federal judge sealed the divorce records of Stephen Moore, President Trump’s pick for the Fed, after the Guardian posted them online. (NYT, Guardian)• A White House whistle-blower has told lawmakers that the Trump administration gave at least 25 individuals security clearances despite objections from staffers. (NYT)• Senator Kamala Harris’s campaign said it raised $12 million in the first quarter, vaulting her into the upper tier of 2020 Democratic candidates. (NYT)Trade• The E.U. is dragging its heels over trade discussions with the U.S., which could anger President Trump. (Bloomberg)Tech• Who’s fighting whom in video streaming? This Venn diagram explains. (WSJ)• The Chinese tech giant Tencent has been quietly testing a game-streaming platform. (CNBC)• Researchers say small stickers on the road could trick Tesla’s Autopilot software into steering into oncoming traffic. (Ars Technica)• A group of former American government hackers reportedly helped the U.A.E. spy on prominent media figures. (Reuters)• Google’s new A.I. ethics council hasn’t impressed employees. (MIT Technology Review)Best of the rest• While investigating Carlos Ghosn, the Renault-Nissan alliance reportedly discovered that it had three more jets than it previously knew. (FT)• Mr. Ghosn’s lawyers asked that his trial be held separately from that of a former colleague, Greg Kelly. (Reuters)• Dubai’s rulers are worried that the emirate’s building boom is ending. (FT)• A peek into Saudi Aramco’s books showed it to be vastly profitable, but investors now wonder: What are its sustainability plans? (FT)• A British government report suggests breaking up the country’s four big accounting firms. (FT)• Manufacturing activity in the U.S. and China has picked up, easing fears about a coming global recession. (WSJ)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.

Supported byBy The New York TimesAlmost two years after the Mueller investigation began, the special counsel’s findings, submitted last month, have become public. On Thursday, Attorney General William P. Barr released a redacted version of the more than 400-page report. [Read about the report delivered to Congress and the public.]We asked readers what they wanted to know about it and received nearly 900 questions. Our journalists in Washington who covered the investigation and what came after answered a selection. How much was redacted?Rosalie Baine, AtlantaAs journalists, we would say too much was redacted. We naturally want the public to know everything. But the redactions generally hewed closely to what the Justice Department predicted. Grand jury material was excised, as was material related to a few ongoing matters. We don’t know what we aren’t seeing, of course, but we didn’t see an obvious effort to black out material that was damaging or embarrassing to the president. — Matt ApuzzoAre redacted portions of a report like this ever open to the public? Is that going to be 100 years from now? Stacie Scholz, Edmonds, Wash.As far as we know, the redacted portions will never be open to the public. Congressional leaders should be able to see a less redacted version — meaning everything except grand jury material — but that is still not supposed to be made public. — Maggie HabermanWhat about the summaries prepared by Mueller’s team? Have they been released and are they redacted? Mark Correll, Boulder, Colo.Yes, executive summaries written by Mr. Mueller’s team have been included in the report. The more than 400-page document is divided into two volumes, each of which begins with an introduction and executive summary of the contents. Several sentences in each summary have been redacted, in almost every case because of what Mr. Barr deemed would cause potential “harm to an ongoing matter.” — Nicholas FandosI’m curious to know what it took to make all the redactions in the report. Was it a team as big as the New York Times one reviewing the report?Carl Williams, Newark, N.J.We don’t know the answer to that yet, and may not for a while. — Maggie HabermanI’m having a hard time reconciling Barr’s comments with the report’s contents and obvious spinning in favor of Trump. Barr’s behavior seems bizarre; how will this be reconciled? Congress makes the laws, not Barr. His comments seem in conflict with Mueller’s report? Confused.Monica Spencer, Vancouver, Wash.In theory, the attorney general is subject to censure or impeachment by Congress. In reality, given the ideologically diverse Democratic majority in the House and the Republicans’ control of the Senate, the chances of that happening are unlikely. — Maggie HabermanI would like to know if the special counsel’s team was asked, ordered or pressured to complete the investigation within a certain time frame. If they had more time, say, to issue a grand jury subpoena to obtain the president’s testimony, would investigators have been better positioned to make a prosecutorial judgment on obstruction of justice? Liz Mazucci, Hoboken, N.J.We don’t know of any directives that the Justice Department gave to the Mueller team about the timing of the investigation’s completion. But as it pushed into 2019, the special counsel’s investigation risked bumping into the start of the president’s re-election campaign. It’s worth noting that there are other ongoing federal investigations; the Mueller report says the team made 14 criminal referrals, only two of which are known. — Maggie HabermanShould Americans blame Mueller for his failure to make a concrete deduction on whether Trump obstructed justice? With no substantial deduction, the report will be open to various interpretations across the political divide for the rest of its life. Musinguzi Blanshe, Kampala, UgandaSome legal commentators are already making that case. The result of Mr. Mueller’s investigation was not a matter of evidence falling short of the high legal bar needed to indict. Rather, Mr. Mueller said that because the Justice Department’s Office of Legal Counsel has declared that sitting presidents cannot be indicted, it would be inappropriate for him to analyze his evidence, lest it “potentially result in a judgment that the president committed crimes.” Yet Mr. Mueller also said that if he thought the evidence he gathered had exonerated Mr. Trump, he would have said so. — Charlie SavageWhat was holding Mueller from the obstruction charge? Kathryn O’Brien, West Newton, Mass.Great question. Mr. Mueller made clear that Mr. Trump tried a number of tactics to influence or even sabotage the investigation. But this posed a dilemma because so much of what might be considered obstruction was tied up in Mr. Trump’s authority as president, such as firing the F.B.I. director. That executive authority did not give Mr. Trump a free pass, Mr. Mueller said, but it made the prosecutorial calculation different from a typical charging decision. — Matt ApuzzoWhat was the evidence apparently relied on by Barr and Rosenstein to conclude Trump did not obstruct? Tom Blinkhorn, Hanover, N.H.In the summary that Mr. Barr gave Congress a few weeks ago, he said he and Mr. Rosenstein determined there was no obstruction of justice because there was no evidence of a conspiracy between the Trump campaign and Russians. In other words, Mr. Barr said, there was no underlying crime to obstruct.— Maggie HabermanIs Mueller not charging the president with obstruction of justice only because a sitting president cannot be charged, or because there isn’t enough evidence? In other words, if this were a civilian being investigated, would they be in handcuffs at this point? Joyce Harms, Port Washington, Wis.Mr. Mueller said it would be inappropriate for him to decide whether Mr. Trump committed obstruction of justice, because carrying out that analysis would create the risk of concluding that the president committed a crime. This would be a problem, Mr. Mueller concluded, because the Justice Department holds that the Constitution implicitly prevents sitting presidents from being indicted. He reasoned it would be unfair to accuse Mr. Trump of a crime if the president would have no immediate opportunity to clear his name in a trial. Notably, however, Mr. Mueller said that if the facts he gathered exonerated Mr. Trump of obstruction, he would have said so. — Charlie SavageWas there any explanation of the president’s motives for his actions? John Brooks, DallasThe written answers that the president gave to the Mueller team on Nov. 20, 2018, which are appended to the report, address specific actions. But more broadly, and particularly in the firing of James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director, the president’s lawyers have said over the last two years that Mr. Trump’s actions were among broad executive powers afforded to him under Article II of the Constitution. His advisers have also said Mr. Trump fired Mr. Comey in reaction to investigations of issues related to his presidency since before it began, a sentiment that Mr. Barr echoed in his news briefing on Thursday. — Maggie HabermanHow does Mueller’s team reason that the June 2016 Trump Tower meeting with Donald Trump Jr., Jared Kushner, Paul Manafort and the Russian lawyer not constitute an attempted conspiracy, when the whole purpose was to discover dirt on Hillary Clinton? Danny Weisbaum, Cologne, GermanyThis meeting was set up so a Russian lawyer could give politically damaging information about Hillary Clinton to the Trump campaign. Prosecutors analyzed it as a possible violation of federal campaign laws. But Mr. Mueller said he could not prove the campaign officials “knowingly and willfully” intended to commit a crime. It’s also worth noting that investigators found no evidence linking the meeting to the hacking or the release of Mrs. Clinton’s emails. Mr. Trump denied knowing about this meeting, and investigators uncovered no evidence that he did. — Matt ApuzzoWill collusion with WikiLeaks continue to be investigated? If the Trump campaign and WikiLeaks knew the information was illegally obtained, isn’t it criminal to disseminate that information? Claire O'Neill, Shrewsbury, Mass.A fair amount of material about WikiLeaks is redacted, likely because it is related to the ongoing case against Roger Stone, a former adviser to Mr. Trump. So we don’t know if Mr. Mueller found evidence of the Trump campaign coordinating with WikiLeaks. But Mr. Barr said on Thursday that any such coordination could not amount to a criminal conspiracy because WikiLeaks’ publication of the stolen material was not a crime unless the group helped Russia steal it. — Matt ApuzzoHow much of what was sent to other jurisdictions by Mueller was not included in this report? Jon Gelberg, North Caldwell, N.J.Mr. Mueller referred 14 cases to other prosecutors to investigate. We already know about the prosecutions of Michael Cohen, Mr. Trump’s former lawyer and fixer, and Gregory B. Craig, who was the White House counsel under President Barack Obama and is charged with lying in a lobbying investigation that grew out of the special counsel inquiry. The remaining 12 cases are still secret. Details of those cases were redacted but were not given much real estate in the report. We will probably see more charges trickle out over time, but Mr. Mueller said he only referred cases that were unrelated to the key issues in this investigation: Russian interference, the 2016 campaign and obstruction of justice. — Matt ApuzzoSince Barr rejects the idea of pursuing an obstruction-of-justice charge against President Trump, can a different prosecutor (perhaps at the state level) elect to file those charges? Does Barr get the final say? Mohit Sethi, OttawaFor now, yes, Mr. Barr has the final say on whether to bring federal charges against Mr. Trump. But Mr. Mueller’s rationale for not pursuing obstruction charges leaves the door open to the possibility that after the president leaves office, prosecutors could re-examine the evidence that the special counsel gathered and charge Mr. Trump. — Charlie Savage and Michael S. SchmidtWhat follows if congressional Democrats decide that Trump’s conduct constitutes obstruction, contradicting Barr’s conclusion? Ahir Verma, Green Brook, N.J.Democrats who control the House are preparing to treat Mr. Mueller’s report as a de facto referral for Congress to issue a judgment about the extent, if any, the president and his associates should be held accountable. The House is already investigating whether the president obstructed justice or abused his power. For now, Mr. Mueller’s findings will be included in that investigation. But Democrats who have the power to impeach Mr. Trump will soon face a decision about whether there is political support to do so, and put the president on trial in the Republican-controlled Senate. — Nicholas FandosWhat does this bode for Trump? What happens next?Sarah Chan, SingaporeCongress will continue its investigations, and there will be efforts by the Democrat-controlled House to obtain an unredacted version of Mr. Mueller’s report. There are also separate but ongoing federal investigations related to, or stemming from, Mr. Mueller’s inquiry. The president’s advisers have acknowledged privately that earlier reporting on revelations that were considered potential acts of obstruction of justice helped desensitize people before the report’s publication. The advisers believe that helped Mr. Trump. — Maggie HabermanWill the Democrats in Congress get an unredacted version of the report? Caroline Petti, WashingtonWe don’t know yet. In the near term, Democrat and Republican lawmakers are likely to have private access to a fuller version of the report that includes classified information and material that could harm an ongoing investigation — content that was blacked out in the public document. But lawmakers will likely face a fight, and potentially a long one, to view secretive grand jury material that was collected by investigators and included in the report. It is generally illegal to release grand jury information, and to do so for Congress would almost certainly require court approval. — Nicholas FandosWhat is the likelihood that Mueller will testify in open session before Congress? And if he does, will he have to steer clear of issues that Barr redacted? Skip Heaps, AtlantaA high-stakes, nationally televised hearing with Mr. Mueller appears increasingly likely. Two Democrats who chair House committees on Thursday invited the special counsel to testify, and Mr. Barr, who has a say over whether or not Mr. Mueller can accept, indicated that he would not stand in the way. How expansive Mr. Mueller is willing to be — or is allowed to be beyond the details of his report — remains to be seen.— Nicholas FandosThough not technically “criminal,” isn’t this activity — the threats, the firing, the WikiLeaks collusion, the half-billion-dollar Trump Tower Moscow denials during the campaign — impeachable? Isn’t that the real intent of Mueller’s position — that a sitting president cannot be indicted anyway, so it all comes down to impeachment? Randall Walker, Rochester, Minn.While it’s the Justice Department’s policy that presidents can’t be indicted, Mr. Mueller would almost surely dispute the notion that he is simply handing an impeachment road map to Congress. Mr. Mueller was tasked with investigating Russian interference and possible coordination with the Trump campaign. Many Russians and campaign officials have been charged. Impeachment is a political issue, though. Having covered Mr. Mueller as F.B.I. director, I am pretty confident he would say that he did his job and will leave the political questions to the politicians. — Matt ApuzzoIt would be interesting to know how many New York Times staff members have been dedicated to reading through the 400+ pages. Steve Kay, OhioWe had at least a dozen people dedicated to reading through the report for our stories and briefing. I’m confident the number was even larger than that throughout the day. — Maggie HabermanIs there anything in this report that wasn’t already known or reported by the press? Susan Jonas, Wilmington, Del.There is a fair amount of new information, particularly details of what Mr. Mueller learned during the course of the probe into whether Mr. Trump obstructed justice. — Maggie HabermanA note to readers who are not subscribers: This article from the Reader Center does not count toward your monthly free article limit.Follow the @ReaderCenter on Twitter for more coverage highlighting your perspectives and experiences and for insight into how we work.

Supported byGame of ThronesBy Jennifer VineyardI’ve done my part. I’ve brought ice and fire together. Oh, I will return, dear Watcher. One last time.Welcome back to our guide through an epic “Game of Thrones” rewatch. If you’ve just joined us, you can catch up with recaps of past seasons with our ultimate watching guide, which also includes suggested episodes to rewatch throughout Seasons 1-7. Or you can consult scrolls in the restricted section of the library for a look at Season 7.Novices beware: This article is dark and full of spoilers. And now our watch continues.Concentrate on the installments that are central to the famously complicated plot and provide all the feels. Here are four must-watch episodes.Episode 3, “The Queen’s Justice” — Jon and Dany finally meet, sparking a battle of royal titles. And it’s payback time for the murders of Joffrey and Myrcella. Bonus: Bran shows us how creepy he can be. (Recap.)Episode 4, “The Spoils of War” — For spectacular action scenes both large (Dany, Drogon and the Dothraki taking on the Lannister loot train) and small (Arya sparring with Brienne). Also, what is wrong with Bran?! Poor Meera. (Recap.)Episode 6, “Beyond the Wall” — Remember how thrilling it seemed the first time our magnificent seven raiding party risked everything to bring back proof of the wights for Cersei? Good times. Now revisit the despair of learning that their losses were for naught. Cry for Thoros. Cry for Viserion. Cry, cry. (Recap.)Episode 7, “The Dragon and the Wolf” — Try to stir up some hope for the dragon-pit summit — a chance for Westeros’s best people to come together for the sake of humanity’s survival, even if the effort might be doomed and Viserion can still make short work of the Wall. Also: Stark powers activate! Goodbye, Littlefinger. (Recap.)All the key players are back in Westeros, but the place is in shambles as invasions are underway. Trying to pick apart the complex narrative? Thinking along these themes and schemes might help.Food for ThoughtWinter is here, and that means it’s already late to be stocking up on food supplies. But where is the food coming from, when the harvests have been so disrupted by war? At Dragonstone, Team Stannis left the larders empty before departing north. How are Dany’s armies and three dragons going to eat while they camp out there? What about when they travel?At Winterfell, Sansa’s asking the local farmers to help build up the grain stores with regular shipments, planning ahead to feed both the armies of the North and local refugees. “If the entire North has to flee to Winterfell, they won’t have enough time to bring wagon loads of grain with them,” she reasons. At King’s Landing, the Lannisters aren’t asking the farmers for food — they’re stealing it. Part of Cersei and Jaime’s Highgarden scheme was to get the gold to repay the Iron Bank, but also to empty the granaries and collect the harvests from the farms in the Reach. Which in itself is a kind of warfare: The capital hopes to withstand a long siege, but the people in the Reach won’t be able to survive a long winter.Listen to the background chatter at the Inn at the Crossroads before Arya reunites with Hot Pie. Two men speculate that “prices will triple” and what they mean are the prices of food in King’s Landing. Remember what Bronn explained to Tyrion and Varys in Season 2? “The thieves, they love a siege. Soon as the gates are sealed, they steal all the food. By the time it’s all over, they’re the richest men in town.” Noble women will sell their diamonds for a sack of potatoes. If it gets really bad, Bronn says, the poor will start to eat each other. “Food’s worth more than gold.”Realizing that she won’t be able to feed her armies “because Cersei has taken all the food,” Dany decides to hit back. Instead of attacking King’s Landing, she attacks the loot train, though Drogon blasts the wagons containing grain and food supplies. Now no one has that precious resource. Starvation is one of the biggest threats to Westeros. This is partly why the farmer that the Hound revisits in Season 7 has killed himself and his daughter. When the Hound robbed them of their silver in Season 4, estimating they would be dead come winter, he ensured their fate. With or without war, food prices are about to skyrocket.Clear and Present DangerJon Snow is trying to recruit allies in the fight against the army of the dead, but he’s having trouble rallying people to his cause. It might be because he’s not great at describing his own White Walker experiences or using other witnesses to corroborate.Perhaps Jon needs to think back to the Night’s Watch back in Season 1, when they sent Alliser Thorne with a letter and a wight hand to show the Small Council. (The Small Council only saw the letter in Season 2 — no Thorne, no hand.) It’s curious Tyrion doesn’t bring this up, since he was the one who read the letter and tried to vouch for Lord Commander Jeor Mormont’s credibility. But perhaps this incident is what gives Tyrion the idea to go beyond the Wall and capture a wight in the first place.Tyrion thinks this would provide proof for Cersei, but he should also remember from past dealings with her that she’s not going to care. It’s not Cersei who needs the information anyway — it’s the realm. Sam realizes this when he makes his case at the Citadel, and Archmaester Ebrose, while complacent, believes him. But the maesters aren’t moved to action when Sam tries to convince them to spread the word. His mistake is telling the Citadel maesters that they should ask the various lords to send men to defend the Wall during a time of war.There’s another option: Use the ravens as an Emergency Broadcast System to inform folks how to protect themselves. Tell them what works in their defense — fire, dragonglass, Valyrian steel (in case they have a spare ancestral sword). Urge them to burn, not bury, their dead, to clear out their crypts.Perhaps the House maesters will disregard the information at first, but better that they know the basics. At the very least, time to repair the ravenries!‘Robert’s Rebellion was built on a lie’When Bran and Sam combine their respective intel from visions and old scrolls, they realize that Jon Snow is the legitimate son of Rhaegar Targaryen and Lyanna Stark. This leads Bran to a couple of conclusions: One, Jon is the heir to the throne, and two, that the war that put Robert Baratheon on the throne was built on a lie — which makes Jon’s claim seem even more legitimate.But as good as Bran is at seeing things, he’s not so good at processing the information. For example, he seems to have forgotten about the Mad King. Robert’s Rebellion didn’t erupt only because Rhaegar and Lyanna ran off together (although that definitely was an instigating factor). If Rhaegar had wanted to abandon his wife Elia Martell and two kids to marry another woman, he should have informed a few people what he was up to — maybe send a raven to the bride’s family?Instead, he disregarded customs, laws and Lyanna’s own betrothal, leaving everyone to assume the worst, which is why Brandon Stark — Lyanna and Ned’s older brother — went to court to protest and demand Lyanna’s release. That situation should have been simple to clear up but instead, King Aerys had Brandon arrested, summoned his father and then publicly incinerated them both, an event that looms large over Jon and Dany’s first meeting. It also explains Sansa’s shock that Jon would even answer a Targaryen summons: “Have you forgotten what happened to our grandfather? The Mad King invited him to King’s Landing and roasted him alive.”So it wasn’t Rhaeger’s supposed kidnapping as much as Aerys’s murdering of the nobles that convinced a coalition of several Houses that the king was unfit to rule, and that they had to remove him and end his royal line. “There have been few rulers in history as cruel as the Mad King,” Varys notes.But Rhaegar was cruel, too. He could have married both women — the Targaryens had a history of polygamy. By annulling his marriage, Rhaegar delegitimized his first two children and took them out of the line of succession. Then, adding insult to injury, he married Lyanna in Elia Martell’s homeland of Dorne. Bran and Sam begin to frame the Rhaegar-and-Lyanna elopement as a romance, but that can only work if one ignores all the injured parties. How romantic is it that Rhaegar basically ensured the deaths of his abandoned wife and two kids (left unprotected, surrounded by enemies)? How romantic is it that Rhaegar actively supported and fought on the side of the man who murdered Lyanna’s father and brother? Oberyn Martell never bought the “romance” — he remembered the murdered children. And even if Ned Stark was late in realizing the relationship was consensual, he, too, remembered those dead kids.Ned’s whole arc was about preventing the deaths of more innocent children — he committed treason to protect Jon, fought to save Dany from assassination and warned Cersei in order to give her a chance to save her three offspring. That’s the honor Cersei remembers, and even grudgingly respects, when she refers to Jon Snow as “Ned Stark’s son.” Rhaegar might be Jon’s bio-dad, but when it comes down to it, Jon will always be Ned Stark’s son.Children in ChargeThe Starks’ key allies — House Mormont, House Umber, House Karstark and House Arryn — are all led by minors now, even if they have adults influencing them. (Little Ned Umber doesn’t even look like he’s hit puberty, the poor thing.)That doesn’t necessarily make them less fierce — Lyanna Mormont has plenty of spunk — but it does make them less experienced, especially when it comes to issues related to running their households, managing their lands or preparing for a siege, let alone all-out war. Sansa, who is a little older and wiser in some ways, less wise in others, observed a lot during her time in King’s Landing. Not all the lessons she learned in the court of an immature boy-king were good ones. Joffrey punished her for her father and brother’s alleged treasons, just to send a message, causing her to beg and plead for mercy. Now that Sansa’s in a position of power herself, she is far from merciful. She suggests that Ned Umber and Alys Karstark be punished for the actions of their relatives. Sansa is less violent about it, but her form of punishment would actually be crueler — she would cast them out of their ancestral homes and strip them of their lands just as winter has come. Where would these kids go?But a better argument for Sansa to make — beyond feudal politics of loyalty versus treason — would be practical concerns. How are these kids going to know how to winter-proof their castles? Might it be better to put some adults in charge of these first lines of defense? Or at least make sure the kids are teamed up with some especially good maesters or other advisers? Don’t leave little Ned Umber to sort these issues out on his own.Watching with younger viewers? Here are some scenes you might want to skip in Season 7.Episode 1About 30 minutes in, there are two scenes at the Citadel that might be hard to stomach, although mileage could vary — one is a poop-soup montage that may induce a gag reflex, lasting about two minutes, and following it is an autopsy with a naked male corpse, his genitals in full view. More disturbing might be the removal of his internal organs. The Hound comes across the corpses of a farmer and his daughter at about 45 minutes in — a murder-suicide to save themselves from starvation.Episode 2Grey Worm might be a eunuch, but that doesn’t mean he can’t have a sex life — as he demonstrates with Missandei. (About 29 minutes in.) Euron Greyjoy’s surprise attack on the rebel Greyjoy fleet is pretty vicious, with a couple dozen folks — including two Sand Snakes — getting killed within the space of five minutes. (About 53 minutes in.)Episode 3Cersei gets aroused by killing her enemies, so she offers sex to Jaime about 30 minutes into the episode. The siege of Casterly Rock is less violent than most battles but still includes about 20 soldiers dying in quick succession. (About 53 minutes in, lasting two-and-a-half minutes.)Episode 4The loot train sequence might be spectacular to watch, but it’s also horrific given the large amount of people who die a fiery death. The action starts at about 41 minutes in, when Drogon starts to barbecue a line of Lannister soldiers. Skip until the end of the episode, around 49 minutes in, if you want to come back to see Jaime charge a grounded Drogon and nearly get hit by a fireball.Episode 5Dany tells Randyll and Dickon Tarly to bend the knee or die. When they refuse allegiance, Drogon burns them alive. (About 11 minutes in.) During a little smuggling operation, Gendry dispatches two guards with his war hammer. (About 40 minutes in.)Episode 6A zombie polar bear attacks our men beyond the Wall, mauling Thoros of Myr. (About 26 minutes in.) The big wight attack on the frozen lake kicks in around 48 minutes in, and Viserion is struck at 54 minutes in. If you want to come back to see Jon ride off to safety, that’s at 59 minutes in.Episode 7As punishment for his various crimes against the Stark family, Arya executes Littlefinger by slashing his throat. (About 60 minutes in.) Jon and Dany commit incest while Tyrion creepily hangs out in the corridor. (About 72 minutes in.)• A primer. [NY Times]• Littlefinger’s primer. [Vanity Fair]• How they make “Thrones.” [Time]• Lena Headey’s power moves. [NY Times]• The life of a “Thrones” recapper. [NY Times]• Hackers threaten “Thrones.” [NY Times]• The embroidery. [New Yorker]• The metalwork. [Broadly]• How “Thrones” is more empathetic in its final leg. [Vulture]What did you think of Season 7? What was your reaction when the Wall came down? Any burning questions? Send a raven to gameofthrones@nytimes.com.

Supported byThe novelist fled Revolutionary Russia a century ago this week. How did the experience shape his writing?By Stacy SchiffMs. Schiff is the author, most recently, of “The Witches: Salem, 1692.”Amid frantic, last-minute negotiations, under a spray of machine-gun fire, Vladimir Nabokov fled Russia 100 years ago this week. His family had sought refuge from the Bolsheviks in the Crimean peninsula; those forces now made a vicious descent from the north. The chaos on the pier at Sebastopol could not match the scene that met the last of the Russian imperial family, evacuated the same week: In Yalta, terrified families mobbed a quay littered with abandoned cars. Nor were the Nabokovs’ accommodations as good. The Romanovs made their escape on a British man-of-war. The Nabokovs crowded into a filthy Greek cargo ship. Overrun by refugees, Constantinople turned them away. For several days they lurched about on a rough sea, subsisting on dog biscuits, sleeping on benches. Only the family jewelry traveled comfortably, nestled in a tin of talcum powder. On his 20th birthday, Nabokov disembarked finally in Athens. He would never again set eyes on Russia.At the time of the evacuation he had spent 16 quiet months in the Crimea, the last speck of Russia in White hands. Already the Bolsheviks had murdered any number of harmless people; Nabokov’s jurist father, as his son would later note, was anything but harmless. In February 1917 riots had delivered a revolution. The czar abdicated, replaced by a liberal government, swept into power on a tide of popular support. Nabokov’s father, Vladimir Dmitrievich, played a prominent role in that administration. Months afterward Lenin returned from exile, disembarking at St. Petersburg’s Finland Station. Within the year, what had begun as an idealistic, progressive uprising would end — like Iran’s, like Egypt’s — in totalitarianism. With Lenin arrived another 20th-century staple: a one-party system in which hacks and henchmen replaced the competent and qualified.The terror began immediately. On seizing power the Bolsheviks made their first victims the intellectuals who had preceded them. In a scene that sounds to have been lifted from one of his son’s future novels, Nabokov’s father managed a narrow escape; he turned out to have been high on the Bolshevik list of deputies to be shot. From Russian shores that year began one of the great exoduses that would mark the century. Nabokov was never to mourn the immense wealth from which he had been separated, only the lost, liberal chapter of Russian history, obliterated by Soviet propaganda.The family made their way across Europe to England. Nabokov had on his side the gift of privilege: As he liked to put it, he had been raised “a perfectly normal trilingual child.” At the same time, he had fled without the documents required for university admission. He would matriculate at Cambridge thanks to a borrowed (and no doubt opaque; it was in Cyrillic) transcript. On graduation he joined his family — and the greater part of the Russian emigration — in Berlin. There Nabokov met Vera Slonim, his future wife, who had made a harrowing St. Petersburg escape of her own, compounded by the fact that she was Jewish. In 1919 even Russian liberals were infected with anti-Semitism, the Jews having been credited — in their customary role amid populist unrest — with having turned the country upside-down. Slonim had traveled through Ukraine at a time of widespread pogroms. Also in Berlin, Nabokov would lose his father, assassinated at a political meeting by a right-wing fanatic. (The meeting topic was “America and the Restoration of Russia.”)In the 1920s Berlin absorbed a Russian community so large that the city supported not only Russian grocers but Russian pawnshops, soccer teams and orchestras. Eighty-six Russian publishers set up shop there. To some it seemed the émigrés had taken over the town. There was no need to venture beyond the expatriate community, and Nabokov did not: He never learned more than a few words of German. (Fortunately Vera had led a perfectly normal quadrilingual childhood.) Theirs seemed in any event a provisional existence. Married in 1925, the couple expected to return as soon as the Bolsheviks fell; into the early 1930s, they still faced impatiently east.In the meantime Nabokov wrote and wrote, in a void. The writers might well be in Europe, but the readers were in Russia. It would be easy, he remarked later, to poke fun at “all those hardly palpable people who imitated in foreign cities a dead civilization.” Theirs was generally a disorienting, vaguely counterfeit existence; it bore an air of “fragile unreality.” The Germans struck the beholden newcomers as largely spectral, “as flat and transparent as figures cut out of cellophane.” No communication took place between them.Himself a “semiphantom in a light foreign suit,” Nabokov taught English, boxing and tennis. He translated “Alice in Wonderland” into Russian. Vera found a series of secretarial jobs. Officially the couple were stateless, having been issued Nansen passports, a document that in Nabokov’s view essentially identified its holder as “a criminal on parole.” Those documents turned travel into a herculean labor; whole correspondences would be devoted to the procurement of visas. Nabokov missed his mother’s funeral, in Prague, for want of one. The authorities seemed to view the foreigners among them, he noted, “with the preposterous disapproval with which certain religious groups regard a child born out of wedlock.”While there would be some debate later as to whether the Nabokovs constituted genteel or dire poverty, their finances were undeniably delicate, the more so after their son was born in l934. By that time history had again begun to overtake them. Vera lost her job when the Nazis dismissed the Jewish owners of her firm. With some urgency the couple began to cast about for a new address. The second city of the Russian emigration, Paris, seemed the obvious refuge. The situation grew grimmer in the fall of 1936, when the man who had murdered Nabokov’s father was named to Hitler’s Department of Émigré Affairs. His mandate, Vera explained, was to register every Russian in Berlin.Nabokov began a full-scale campaign for the right person, lectureship or publishing contact that might propel the family from Germany. By November he pronounced their position “desperate in the extreme.” He searched everywhere for a foothold. “I am not afraid of living in the American boondocks,” he assured a Massachusetts acquaintance, both men deaf to any hint of prophesy. Nabokov might just as easily have become a great writer of the subcontinent: Was there work anywhere, he pleaded late in the year, if not in Britain or the United States, then in India or South Africa? The couple remained officially stateless, culturally orphaned. A gust might have nudged them in any direction.“We’re slowly dying of hunger and nobody cares,” Nabokov confided to a Paris-based cousin in 1937, shortly before the appeals paid off. While France was unhappy about the influx of foreigners — it had been less welcoming to foreigners than Berlin — Nabokov managed to secure a work visa. Vera arrived to be greeted by immense swastikas flying before Albert Speer’s pavilion at the International Exposition. The family split up, camping at separate addresses so as not to overwhelm their generous hosts.Nabokov had meanwhile acquired a literary agent in New York. She made no headway placing translations of his Russian novels. His latest, she informed him, was “dazzlingly brilliant” and hence wholly without promise for the American market. She suggested something more topical, an idea that left her client hyperventilating. “Nothing,” he would roar later, “bores me more than political novels and the literature of social unrest.” He was, he enlightened his representative, neither Sinclair Lewis nor Upton Sinclair. (Ultimately he tossed the two over the cliff together, as “Upton Lewis.”) Weeks later, in the bathroom of a Paris studio apartment, he began — “a champion figure skater switching to roller skates,” as he complained, speaking for whole cadres of displaced professionals — to write in English.Neither an academic post nor a publisher materialized. Nabokov was again offering English lessons in September 1939 when gas masks were handed out and air raid alarms began to sound. How was it possible, he wailed, that no one understood their straits? Émigré publishing shuddered to a halt. He was nearly mobilized. In Russian that winter he wrote a novella about a 40-year-old seducer of prepubescent girls. It did nothing to speed him to the continent on which it would blossom, though another fiction did: An American refugee organization promised him a lecture series, understood to be purely “metaphysical.” The visas came through though still the family could not afford steamer fare. Two charitable organizations chipped in. “I have sound reasons to believe that I shall be able to make good in America,” Nabokov assured the American Committee for Christian Refugees.On May 19, 1940, the day that Winston Churchill announced that the Germans had trampled the Maginot Line, as bewildered Belgians filled the Paris streets, the Nabokovs sailed to America. They arrived bedraggled, gaunt, a little suspect. (“Stranger always rhymes with danger,” Nabokov observed.) For a third time a world had come crashing down behind them as they escaped, at the 11th hour, through a trap door. A month after their departure the Germans marched into Paris. The Nabokovs had themselves crossed an invisible, if indelible, divide. Briefly evacuees, for two decades émigrés, they were now refugees.In New York, Vera found part-time work. Nabokov tutored college students. And then he was off and running, briefed by his new friend Edmund Wilson on the secret of circumventing “that man named Ross” who persisted in editing people at The New Yorker. Nabokov set about perfecting a brand of English that had not existed before and has not been seen since. In that realm he acknowledged his plight: “My private tragedy,” he would say, had been to have had to “abandon my natural idiom, my untrammeled, rich, and infinitely docile Russian tongue for a second-rate brand of English.”In his second-rate English he wrote several of the greatest works of the 20th century, the most popular of which propelled him back to Europe, if not to the pre-revolutionary world, now extinct. He engaged in no lamentations for it, refusing to attach himself “to his wretched country by his own twisted heartstrings.” He did not care to allow the Soviets the satisfaction of thinking they had relieved him of anything of value. Nor did he see himself as part of a mass migration, one that over the next century would surge and swell, leaving more people to read bedtime stories to their children in languages they had not spoken at birth than ever before in history.As for the stateless years, they became, in retrospect, “21 years of voluntary exile.” Tampering a little with the tenses, Nabokov explained: “I propelled myself out of Russia so vigorously, with such indignant force, that I have been rolling on and on ever since.” It was essential that the exodus feel elective, that deprivation read as renunciation. The events of 1919 left him with a light hold on the world. The man who had grown up amid lush, pre-revolutionary luxury perched always in rented houses, ultimately in a Swiss hotel. He claimed he could hear the avalanche crashing his way whenever he contemplated acquiring property. The Communists, it seemed, had relieved an immensely wealthy young man not only of his possessions, but also of the very habit of possession.Generally politics left him indifferent. He did not issue political statements. Nor did he vote. Nabokov claimed not to be able to distinguish a Republican from a Democrat. At the same time, certain things were unforgivable. In a Wellesley classroom he could not avoid stressing that Communism and totalitarianism had stunted Russian literature for a quarter-century. (Stalin had just become an American ally. Nabokov’s contract was not renewed.) The New Yorker would reject a section of his 1957 novel, “Pnin,” deemed unacceptably anti-Soviet. Nabokov could reconcile himself to a new country and a new language, to a confiscated past and a hijacked future. But he could not abide the suggestion that “Communism was an attractive new revolutionary experiment.” Nor would he for a minute forget murderous regimes, brutes, bullies, bigots or philistines of any kind.For someone who claimed his sole political credo was to loathe all forms of oppression — “I am against any dictatorship right or left, terrestrial or celestial, white, grey or black, pink, red or purple,” — the opinions could be surprising. They remained accented, sometimes heavily. The Nabokovs supported McCarthyism. “We are not with you on Vietnam,” Vera informed friends. The couple endorsed President Lyndon Johnson’s bombing of the north. They wrote the 1968 student demonstrations down to hooligans. (The Russian Revolution had begun in the universities.) Fervent patriots, the Nabokovs brooked no criticism of America. The jacket art for “Pnin,” featuring Professor Pnin standing on an American flag, would be summarily rejected. The Stars and Stripes, Vera explained to the novel’s publisher, had already suffered enough abuse from protesters. “We are the senior authorities in judging the Communist utopia,” Vera reminded a close friend, herself a more open-minded senior authority. (The sentiments read differently for being written in Russian and in pre-revolutionary spelling.) The couple reasoned like the first Cuban-Americans, or the first Vietnamese-Americans, or, no doubt tomorrow, the first Venezuelan-Americans. No one knew better how fragile was the border between idealism and totalitarianism.And then there was “Dr. Zhivago.” Published four weeks after “Lolita,” it joined Nabokov’s masterpiece at the top of the 1958 best-seller list. Nabokov wrote off Boris Pasternak’s novel as “wretched and mediocre,” or, on a better day, as “a sorry thing, clumsy, trivial, and melodramatic.” He might shrug off his losses, but 1919 still burned bright: He could not forgive Pasternak for having raced past the liberal revolution on his way to writing about the Bolshevik coup. The Nabokovs knew a Soviet plot when they saw one: They were convinced the Communists had pretended to smuggle Pasternak’s novel out of the Soviet Union. Its American publication amounted to a cunning act of currency conversion. Nabokov forbade his publisher from mentioning him and Pasternak in the same breath. It was as if the Cold War played out weekly in America’s bookstores. Edmund Wilson wrote off Nabokov’s denunciations as sour grapes. “He wants to be the only Russian writer in existence,” he sniffed. A hint of envy would have been in order: “Zhivago” strode past “Lolita” on the best-seller list. That fall Pasternak won the Nobel Prize. No page of Nabokov could be read in Russia at the time.But Wilson misunderstood his old friend. By some migratory magic, despite the bullies, brutes and philistines, he had reconstituted himself. Swindled by history, Nabokov had — thanks to the late-arriving roller skates, over a skin-shedding century, from a land where more people who have lost worlds have ever congregated — amply settled his account. “I am,” Nabokov declared, “an American writer, born in Russia.”Stacy Schiff is the author, most recently, of “The Witches: Salem, 1692.”The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported bylettersHigh schoolers offer their views on violence in El Salvador, suicide, transgender people, leggings, Asian stereotypes and more. We invited high school students to submit a letter on any recent Times article. Popular topics included why high school doesn’t have to be boring, leggings, plastic bags, beauty, the college admissions scandal, asking kids what they want to be when they grow up, the murder of an Uber customer, basketball’s “one and done” rule and social media/technology/video games. Here is a selection of our favorites from among the more than 800 responses. To the Editor:Re “A Breaking Point for Stretchy Pants?” (Thursday Styles, April 4):“Every girl in this classroom is wearing pants!” observed my Honors English 10 teacher, contrasting today’s gender roles with those of Jacobean England. When Shakespeare wrote “Macbeth,” this was unheard-of. In 21st-century New Jersey, leggings are the norm.Maryann White, the mother who wrote a letter to a school newspaper, asserts that women should refrain from wearing you’re-asking-for-it leggings so that men can better control their primal impulses. We should avoid our favorite garment for the “greater good.” We must censor our wardrobes to help men practice self-control.Wait, what?I thought that in the epic battle for women’s equality, sometime between the 19th Amendment and #MeToo, the question of women wearing pants had been asked and answered. Merriam-Webster Dictionary defines pants as “an outer garment covering each leg separately and usually extending from the waist to the ankle.” It’s not complicated. Leggings are pants. If men have impulse-control issues, that’s not our problem.We women of Gen Z have bigger dragons to slay. Look for us pushing boundaries — seeking parity in pay and congressional representation. Look for us in the C-suites and on Capitol Hill. We’ll be the ones wearing the leggings.Elizabeth Hirschfeld, Mountain Lakes, N.J.Mountain Lakes High School, 10th gradeTo the Editor:Re “Someone Is Always Trying to Kill You,” by Sonia Nazario (Sunday Review, April 7):I was born and raised in El Salvador, where domestic violence, rape and murder became normal for women. I grew up with the fear of never seeing my grandmother when she went out to do errands. My grandmother told my siblings and me about being nearly killed by my alcoholic grandfather.Sadly, my mom and my aunts were beaten by my grandfather when he got home drunk because they complained about not having enough food after he had spent all the money on alcohol. I heard about other girls my age being raped and left in places where no one could find them. When I was 12, my family moved to America, seeking a safer and better life. Luckily, I found it. But when thinking about where I stand today and where other girls and women are in Central America, I feel angry at myself, as I am safe while there is a girl out there taking her last breath.Many families are running away because it is their only option. They are just looking to live without being hunted like animals.Alicia Argueta, Sandy Spring, Md.Sandy Spring Friends School, 12th gradeTo the Editor:Re “Is Being Trans Like Being an Immigrant?” (Op-Ed, nytimes.com, April 3):As a teenager raised by parents who immigrated from Iran, I agree with Jennifer Finney Boylan in that both immigrants and transgender people face unwarranted prejudice, causing them to often feel unwelcome and subordinate to those who have not changed their country or gender. For example, sometimes my mother tries to hide her Persian accent when she speaks, attempting to shield her Iranian roots. I can imagine that transgender people endure similar struggles, blanketing their true persona.When I think about the preconceptions that face immigrants and transgender people, I envision Walt Whitman and his words about America’s dinner table in his poem “Song of Myself”: “This is the meal equally set … I will not have a single person slighted or left away.” If an individual living in the 19th century clearly understood that America’s table isn’t complete without all who long to dine, regardless of their differences, why do we, in 2019, still struggle to be open-minded?Like Ms. Boylan, I think that we need to shrink chasms and extend bridges. We must invite those who have changed their country or their gender to our tables, respecting them for both who they were and who they have become.Nadia Farjami, Laguna Hills, Calif.St. Margaret’s Episcopal School, 11th gradeTo the Editor:Re “Stop Calling Asian Women Adorable” (Sunday Review, March 24):Growing up in a white society as an Asian-American girl, I was constantly reminded that I was different. My Caucasian peers pestered me with questions about where I was really from, why my eyes were smaller and how to say things in Chinese. They placed their fingers all over me, on my hair and my skin. I felt stripped of my individuality, like an animal showcased at the zoo.It seems to me that at this age, people should be more cognizant about their actions. Nevertheless, I, along with my other Asian friends, continue to endure dehumanizing comments. We are commonly depicted as objects to obtain or challenges to surmount. I have heard various guys say that they have always wanted to “try” an Asian because they are “exotic,” “petite” and “doll-like.” They tell me that as a Chinese girl, I would look more attractive if I put my hair in pigtails, if I used more makeup or if I wore short skirts.I am not an accessory to try on and admire — and then take off when you get bored. I am a human being with a name. I want to be seen for who I am, not for my race.Megan Ying, Rockville, Md.Richard Montgomery High School, 11th gradeTo the Editor:Re “Stop Asking Kids What They Want to Be When They Grow Up,” by Adam Grant (nytimes.com, April 1):As a high school senior, this year I am hearing a cacophony of “what are you planning to major in?” or “what do you plan to do when you’re out of college?” How am I supposed to know what I want to do for the rest of my life right now, and why do I need to know? Not having a specific profession in mind does not make me any less driven or motivated; in fact, I believe it makes me more curious and interested in the world around me. Almost every day I change my mind. Today, I want to major in anthropology, but yesterday I felt that environmental science was my calling.I love the idea of aspiring to be a “person of integrity,” but most adults in my life certainly do not think that’s enough. Today, success is often measured in terms of money. How can I possibly be successful if I am not rich? To be honest, some of the happiest people I have ever met are barely making ends meet.Is it really so terrible to simply want to be happy when you grow up?Jade Strapart, Portland, Ore.Northwest Academy, 12th gradeTo the Editor:Re “You Underestimate Yourself,” by Spencer Greenberg and Seth Stephens-Davidowitz (Sunday Review, April 7):In our current predicament as high school students, my friend and I know not only what it’s like to underestimate (and sometimes overestimate) our abilities, but also what it’s like being surrounded by over a thousand people doing the same.The end of sophomore year can mean beginning to seriously consider our future, and, in turn, questioning what we want to do and whether we’re good enough to do it. As the authors note, we humans are often overconfident about our abilities, with the exception of things outside of our comfort zones. I’m probably overconfident about my singing ability, but, like most my age, I lack confidence in something so unknown as my future, and how my decisions may determine it, for better or worse.Appropriately, as I’m pulled from my comfort zone writing my first letter to the editor, I question whether I’m as good at writing as I thought. Maybe not. Or maybe I shouldn’t be so hard on myself. My aforementioned friend constantly compares himself with others, although he told me the other day not to do so myself. Maybe he’s right, and maybe we shouldn’t be so hard on ourselves. And maybe others should follow suit.Matthew McMorrough, Ann Arbor, Mich.Skyline High School, 10th gradeTo the Editor:Re “Where’s Your Climate Plan, Mr. McConnell?,” by Michelle Cottle (Editorial Observer, March 27):I am 17 years old. I have lived on this planet for 17 years, observed for 17 years, seen increasingly frequent notices about animals becoming endangered for 17 years. I have watched news reports of deadly weather events and people being told to evacuate their homes, and I have watched politicians do nothing for 17 years.For much longer than the 17 years I have been on this planet, politicians have been trying to play a game of darts with no target. The Green New Deal may be a target that seems to many to be “far-fetched” or “too optimistic,” but at least it gives us something to aim at.Republicans such as Mitch McConnell have pointed their fingers and laughed at the few politicians aiming for a chance to stop this planet from overheating. To those laughing, I have a question: Who carries more shame? Those who aim toward a way to make life better for as many people as they can, or a 77-year-old politician who seems to have noticed less in his lifetime than a 17-year-old?Julia Herkert, Verona, Wis.Verona Area High School, 11th gradeTo the Editor:Re “Olympic Athlete. Brilliant Mind. ‘Never at Peace’” (front page, April 9):I applaud this article drawing attention to an athlete’s suicide. At the same time, it’s key that the media avoid propagating misconceptions about suicide, even accidentally.The online headline, “Olympic Cyclist Kelly Catlin Seemed Destined for Glory. Then She Killed Herself,” implies that Catlin’s talents should or could have prevented her from taking her life. Though the story does point out underlying problems in her pristine-on-the-surface life, I spotted several mentions of how strange her death seemed in the face of all her achievements.As impressive as her talents were, mental health and personal accomplishments should be sharply distinguished. As a high school student, I can say that many of the smartest, most hard-working people I know struggle with suicidal thoughts, depression and self-harm. My cousin, a captain of her Model U.N. and cross-country teams, died by suicide.Mixing achievements and health brings into play a dangerous idea: that if someone looks to be doing well on the outside, he or she must be doing well on the inside, too. I’ve done my own share of hiding how broken I was inside while masquerading as the perfect student. It’s sad that we still automatically associate a 4.0 G.P.A. with well-being.Aviva Bechky, Rockville, Md.Montgomery Blair High School, 10th gradeTo the Editor:Re “It’s Dangerous to Be a Boy,” by Michael C. Reichert (Sunday Review, March 31):I am a 17-year-old boy. When I was in my first year of high school, I was at the bottom of my “friend group.” I was the person who if he were to just disappear in the middle of a group lunch or conversation would not be missed or even noticed. I was teased, I was abused, I was excluded. But hey, boys will be boys.Once, all of the other kids in the group practically forced me to fight one of my friends. This other kid was on the bottom of the friend group with me, only kept around because of how easy it was to make fun of him. This other kid and I had a relationship in which we constantly bullied each other not out of real spite, but to gain respect and approval from the rest of the group.When they made us fight each other we were not enemies, there was no ill will between us. We were simply like dogs or bulls, animals thrown into a ring and told to fight or die. To the rest of the boys, we were not people, we were entertainment. Each member of that group was focused on one thing: getting to the top. We would step on, or fistfight, anyone we deemed a threat.It was ridiculous, it was unhealthy, but above all, it was teenage boys.Adam Winchenbach, Rockville, Md.Richard Montgomery High School, 11th gradeTo the Editor:Re “New Kind of Recruit for Rebranded Boy Scouts: Girls” (news article, March 4):Growing up, I loved to tag along with my younger brother’s Cub Scout, then Boy Scout, activities. The closest thing available for me at the time was Girl Scouts, which I quickly realized was completely different and not right for me. My brother was earning merit badges, going backpacking, camping, caving, canoeing, skiing and climbing, while my Girl Scout troop was doing arts and crafts, planning spring balls and selling cookies.As soon as I was old enough, I joined Venturing, a coed organization within the Boy Scouts for ages 14 and up. Since then, I have met some of my best friends and learned so much about outdoor skills, teamwork, physical fitness and leadership. Most of all, I’ve found a love for the outdoors that my Girl Scout troop never gave me the opportunity to explore.The Eagle rank is one of the most internationally recognized youth awards and, until now, it was unavailable for girls to earn. I am on the path to Eagle Scout, like thousands of girls across the country. As women increasingly step into corporate, academic, civic and political leadership, we will need every one of these Eagles.Tara Presnall, Chevy Chase, Md.Bethesda-Chevy Chase High School, 11th gradeTo the Editor:I thought “Rituals of Honor in Hospital Hallways” (nytimes.com, April 2), about “honor walks” for dying patients about to donate their organs, was a beautiful piece. As a registered organ donor myself, I found that thinking about the honor walk provoked mixed emotions. I felt fear that it could be me being wheeled down that silent hall. But I also felt a pride in humanity for acknowledging the sacrifice the donor made and showing respect. Too often people imagine organ donation as a grisly, thankless process that leaves behind nothing but a cotton-stuffed corpse. However, this article shows that it can be beautiful and somber, and leave behind tears of joy as well as sadness.I will never be glad to die, but should I be in such a situation, knowing that my heart could beat in a little girl’s chest or my eyes peer from the face of a young man, I could at least feel content.Grace Foskett, Hudson, OhioWestern Reserve Academy, 11th gradeTo the Editor:Re “Celebrating the ‘They’ Mitzvah” (news article, March 28):I was thrilled when I heard about the steps religious communities are taking to make traditional celebrations more inclusive and accepting. As a gender-nonconforming student living in a conservative Christian family, I am aware of the bitter, often heartbreaking sting of knowing that the people who are supposed to be closest to you would be repulsed if they found out who you truly are. The preservation of tradition is important within any community, but the creation of a b’nai mitzvah proves that these traditions can be adapted to create a sense of acceptance and support that is vital to anybody adopting an identity that is different from what society dictates as “normal.” This is especially true for teenagers, whose changing bodies provide them with conflicting signals that are often difficult to interpret.By showing that they are willing to exert the time and energy necessary to change the gender of classical Hebrew words to fit the identity of a young child, these religious officials prove they are committed to creating a community that does not discriminate against its members. A community free from bigotry and other forms of hate. A community I would be proud to live in.Danny Bean, Fort Wayne, Ind.Homestead High School, 11th gradeTo the Editor:Re “Seemingly Friendly Ride-Share Drivers Were Predators, Lying in Wait” (news article, April 5):I am not allowed to take an Uber by myself, according to my parents. But I do not argue with them on this one. The death of Samantha Josephson reaffirms my parents’ rule and my own fears. I am 17 years old and I am scared to be a teenage girl in America.My 21-year-old brother is allowed to ride in an Uber by himself. In fact, he gets a monthly allowance that goes straight to his Uber fund for his weekends while he is away at college. But the “103 Uber drivers and 18 Lyft drivers [who] had been accused of sexual assault or abuse” and the driver-imposters awaiting drunk females outside of bars and nightclubs make it so I will not be able to do so.There is a double standard in America: Boys are allowed to travel alone, yet girls are cautioned constantly to never travel on their own. “Do not walk home at night alone,” I’ve been warned, but I cannot take an Uber alone either. How is a young woman in America supposed to get home safely?Hope Kahn, Columbia, Md.Wilde Lake High School, 12th gradeTo the Editor:Re “What to Do When You’re Bored With Your Routines” (Smarter Living, nytimes.com, March 29):Thanks, Julie Fraga, for the list of psychological life hacks, but I’d rather be honest with myself. Yes, boredom is a real and very human affliction, but just like with mental illness, we often choose to medicate it instead of getting to its root. Using “chopsticks” for your life, or making small differences to everyday boring tasks, is a solution that is temporary and slightly condescending.If your commute makes you feel depressed, the answer is not to take a different train. If you feel undermined or bored by your partner, having a spontaneous dinner party is not going to turn you into Ryan Gosling and Rachel McAdams. It’s going to make you feel like a toddler given a different colored spoon when you won’t eat your applesauce.That’s not to say switching things up isn’t good for you. I think striving to be unique in everyday life is refreshing and can make you forget about harsh realities. So the next time you’re bored, don’t think about what to do on the train, or what to do about your boss. Think about what you’re doing on this planet, and know that it’s in your power to choose.Kate Jeffrey, New YorkThe Beacon School, 11th gradeTo the Editor:Re “High School Doesn’t Have to Be Boring,” by Jal Mehta and Sarah Fine (Sunday Review, March 31):Thank you for listening to students. Our thoughts, ideas and opinions are too often dismissed. Yes, school can be boring; no, we aren’t just saying that to get back to our iPhones.My generation loves social media as much as the next one, but we have other interests and passions. It shouldn’t be standard to find high school so slow, disengaging and draining. Just as the authors described, my classmates and I are full of energy and excitement when the clock hits 3. We can’t wait to break away from the factory-like routine of our school days. It’s not the teachers, and it’s not the subjects; rather it’s the way in which the whole system is set up.We are young, but we are not clueless. This country needs to stop treating us so condescendingly, as if we don’t know how to appreciate our education. We are eager and willing to learn, but schools need to work with us a little. Get us out into the world.New York City is home to countless museums, historical sites and relevant work experiences. We have six hours a day, five days a week. Let’s at least have a little fun. What, anyway, is so radical about school not being boring?Bella Irwin, New YorkMillennium High School, 11th grade



      By JONATHAN MAHLER and 
    
JIM RUTENBERG

APRIL 3, 2019

The Disney deal left the Murdochs with a media empire stripped to its essence: a hard-core right-wing news machine — with Lachlan in charge.


          
            Part 3: The New Fox Weapon
            
        
        The Disney deal left the Murdochs with a media empire stripped to its essence: a hard-core right-wing news machine — with Lachlan in charge.
          
      By JONATHAN MAHLER and JIM RUTENBERG APRIL 3, 2019This is Part 3 of a three-part story. Go back and read Part 1 and Part 2.It was in the midst of this moment — the biggest deal of his career — that the 86-year-old Murdoch tripped on his way to the bathroom on Lachlan’s yacht and had to be transported to Los Angeles. With their father laid up at the Ronald Reagan U.C.L.A. Medical Center at the start of 2018, Murdoch’s children descended on Los Angeles, unsure if this would be the end. Lachlan and his wife, Sarah, met them at the hospital. Elisabeth and her husband, Keith Tyson, came from London, James and Kathryn from New York. Murdoch’s surgery was successful. Not long after his children arrived, his condition stabilized. Following his near-death experience, Murdoch joked that he did not realize how serious his condition was until he had seen all his children gathered around his hospital bed.Murdoch would be laid up for the next few months but still in command, running things from his bedroom at Moraga. In an email to his senior management leaked to Vanity Fair’s Gabriel Sherman, he described the incident as “a sailing accident” and said that he would be working at home for a little while. “In the meantime,” Murdoch wrote, “you’ll be hearing from me by email, phone and text!”The negotiations continued. As they did, Lachlan and James adjusted to their new realities. Unable to secure a job at Disney that he wanted, and wary of its aggressively safe and hierarchical culture, James decided in the winter that he would not try to follow the family’s assets to their new home, according to three people who are close to him. Lachlan would take over what was left of the Murdoch empire without interference from his brother.In early June 2018, before the final terms were settled, another bidder emerged. Brian Roberts, the chief executive of Comcast, offered Murdoch $65 billion for 21st Century Fox, $12.6 billion more than Disney was prepared to pay. Murdoch didn’t want to sell to Comcast, according to three people familiar with his thinking. He preferred Disney for a variety of reasons, including his personal admiration for Iger, whom he viewed as a risk-taking leader in his own image. What’s more, the Comcast offer was all cash, which would create a big tax burden for Murdoch. But Murdoch did like the prospect of a bidding war. And he had a potential path to securing both a higher price and his preferred buyer in the Justice Department’s ongoing lawsuit to block a proposed merger between AT&amp;T and Time Warner.Comcast’s interest in 21st Century Fox allowed Murdoch to drive up Disney’s purchase price to $71.3 billion. Iger and his team delivered what they hoped would be their final offer personally to Murdoch in London, traveling through Ireland because they were worried that Comcast might be tracking the movement of private planes flying in and out of London from the United States. Murdoch had Disney on the hook.His back now healed, Murdoch attended the Allen &amp; Company media conference in Sun Valley, Idaho, in July 2018. With Roberts and Iger nearby, he seemed exhilarated; once again, he was in the middle of the action. The problem for Murdoch was that if Comcast made another counteroffer, he might have a fiduciary responsibility to present the offer to his board, and it might accept it, absent extenuating circumstances. He didn’t want his stalking horse to overtake his favorite.[Read 6 takeaways from this story.]The Trump Justice Department came to Murdoch’s rescue, appealing a federal court ruling in the AT&amp;T and Time Warner case. On its face, the lawsuit had nothing to do with Comcast, but because the company had its own history of tangles with government regulators, the appeal would give Murdoch the cover he needed to accept Iger’s latest bid: Comcast now looked risky. There is no evidence that the Justice Department factored Murdoch’s interests into its decision-making process; nevertheless, he had gotten another $20 billion for his company while still selling to his preferred suitor.When the deal was finalized, Murdoch would personally make roughly $4 billion, bringing his net worth to $18 billion. All six of his children would receive $2 billion each. Lachlan and James would get even more — an additional $20 million in Disney stock, plus golden parachutes worth about $70 million each. Yet neither one was getting what he had really wanted.Media empires are built on the foresight and audacity of their leaders, their ability to anticipate and embrace sudden changes in an industry that’s constantly evolving. But they are also built on something far more mundane: government regulations. More than anything, it’s the moving of lines, the lifting of caps and the rewriting of rules that enable moguls to transform businesses into empires. These decisions are invariably opaque, the product of a labyrinthine bureaucratic process and the inherently subjective definition of what’s in the public interest. Under President Trump, these decisions have almost always broken Murdoch’s way.The Time Warner-AT&amp;T deal was itself a good example of the ambiguities of this bureaucratic process. It worked out perfectly for Murdoch, but Trump had his own reason to try to block the acquisition: Time Warner was the owner of CNN, with which he was constantly feuding. He called it a “a deal that’s not good for the country,” and privately urged his chief economics adviser, Gary Cohn, to stop it, according to two people who were told about the conversation. (The exchange was first reported in The New Yorker.) Deals like this, a “vertical merger” between two companies in separate businesses, rarely face antitrust scrutiny. And yet Trump’s Department of Justice sued to prevent it, the first time the federal government had taken such a step in 40 years. The Justice Department antitrust enforcer who filed the government’s lawsuit against the deal, Makan Delrahim, was in fact on record saying earlier that he didn’t see it “as a major antitrust problem.” And yet when a federal judge, Richard Leon, dismissed the Justice Department’s case, calling one of its key arguments “gossamer thin,” the government appealed, and just in time to stave off Comcast’s next bid for 21st Century Fox. The process had dragged on for more than two years.The speed with which Murdoch’s Disney deal was approved stood in stark contrast. This type of agreement — a “horizontal merger” bringing together Hollywood’s largest and third-largest studios — would give the combined company near-monopoly power to raise consumers’ prices and limit their choices. Such deals ordinarily invite strict government scrutiny. The Department of Justice approved it in just six months. (Fox executives credit the company’s thorough preparations for its speedy and successful review.) After calling Murdoch to ensure that the deal wouldn’t affect Fox News, Trump had applauded it: “This could be a great thing for jobs,” his press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, said when asked to characterize the president’s reaction to the agreement. Wall Street analysts predicted that the deal would result in thousands of layoffs.The ambiguities of the regulatory process were also evident in another deal with major implications for Murdoch’s empire. In the spring of 2017, months before Murdoch started negotiating with Iger, the Sinclair Broadcast Group agreed to buy Tribune Media for $3.9 billion. Sinclair was already the largest owner of local TV stations in the country. It was also overwhelmingly pro-Trump: Its local stations, many of which were in key swing states, provided Trump with positive coverage during the campaign — a result, in part, of a deal that Kushner had personally struck with Sinclair’s chairman, David Smith. Murdoch had been concerned about the company’s steady growth. With Sinclair’s acquisition of Tribune, which was already in 39 percent of American households, the company would now be in more than 70 percent. What’s more, Tribune owned WGN, an unremarkable cable channel with unexploited potential: It reached nearly 80 million homes and could easily be converted into a right-wing national news network — an instant competitor to Fox News. In conversations with colleagues, Murdoch worried that Sinclair might hire O’Reilly as the marquee star of the new Fox rival.Sinclair seemed to have a friend and ally not just in Trump but also in the Federal Communications Commission’s chairman, Ajit Pai. Days after the election, when he was still just a commissioner at the agency, he appeared at a Sinclair executive retreat at the Four Seasons in Baltimore, according to a Politico story. After he became chairman in 2017, he effectively enabled Sinclair’s bid for the Tribune stations, easing limits on how many stations a single company could own. There was enough suspicion that Pai might be inclined to give Sinclair favorable treatment that the F.C.C.’s inspector general started an investigation into the commissioner’s relationship with the company. But then, in the summer of 2018, Pai basically blocked the deal, announcing that he had “serious concerns” about it. Sinclair officials said they were “shocked.”Once again, things had broken Murdoch’s way. The report cleared Pai of inappropriate conduct — either to help or hurt Sinclair — though it left some questions unanswered about Fox, like what Pai and Jared Kushner discussed during a conversation just before the deal was announced. Pai was asked if anyone from Fox News had tried to influence the ruling. He “responded in the negative,” the investigators wrote.In the middle of August 2018, Lachlan Murdoch emerged from his Gulfstream G550 in a T-shirt and jeans and climbed into a black Range Rover waiting for him on the tarmac. Australian paparazzi were waiting there, too, as they often were when Lachlan or his father arrived in Sydney. This time, they were both in town: Murdoch had landed two days earlier. They went for a company awards dinner, but they had another agenda as well.The night after his arrival, Lachlan invited a small group of Sky employees and managers to his $16 million mansion in Sydney for drinks. With its new prime-time lineup of hard-right opinion hosts, Sky had become a force in Australian politics. Its audience was still small by American standards, but it was the network of choice in the capital, Canberra, and it was finalizing a deal to expand its reach into the Australian Outback — demographically speaking, the equivalent of Trump country.It was a mirror of Fox News, with its fixation on race, identity and climate-change denial. Night after night, Sky’s hosts and their guests stirred anger over the perceived liberal bias of the media, “suicidal self-hatred” of Western civilization and the Australian equivalent of the Central American “caravans” that were dividing the United States: asylum seekers coming to the country by boat from Indonesia and Malaysia, many of them Muslim. Days before Lachlan’s arrival, a national neo-Nazi leader, Blair Cottrell — who had recently been fined for “inciting contempt for Muslims” — appeared on one of the network’s shows. Cottrell had been interviewed on Australian TV before, but his deferential treatment by Sky caused a national outcry. Under gentle questioning, he called on his countrymen to “reclaim our traditional identity as Australians” and advocated limiting immigration to those “who are not too culturally dissimilar from us,” such as white South African farmers. (Sky apologized and suspended the program.)Inside Lachlan’s living room, the talk turned to national politics. “Do you think Malcolm is going to survive?” Lachlan asked his staff. Malcolm was Malcolm Turnbull, the relatively moderate Australian prime minister who took office a few years earlier. Inside the government, a small right-wing uprising had been brewing over his plans to bring Australia into compliance with the Paris climate accord. It is well established among those who have worked for the Murdochs that the family rarely, if ever, issues specific directives. They convey their desires indirectly, maybe with a tweet — as Murdoch did in the spring of 2016 when he decided to back Trump — or a question, the subtleties of which are rarely lost on their like-minded news executives.In the days that followed, Sky Australia’s hosts and the Murdoch papers — the newspaper editors had their own drinks session at Lachlan’s mansion — set about trying to throw Turnbull out of office. Alan Jones, a Sky host and conservative radio star, called for a party “rebellion” against him on his program. Days later, the Murdochs’ major paper in Sydney, The Daily Telegraph, broke the news that a leadership challenge was in the works. Cheering on the challenge, Andrew Bolt, the Murdoch columnist who was once convicted of violating the country’s Racial Discrimination Act, told his Sky viewers that Turnbull’s “credibility is shot, his authority is gone.” Peta Credlin, the commentator who was Tony Abbott’s former chief of staff, chewed out a member of Parliament for the chaos inside Turnbull’s administration. The Australian, the Murdochs’ national newspaper, was soon declaring Turnbull a “dead man walking.”Word got back to Turnbull about Lachlan’s remark to his staff. He knew that Sky After Dark had been becoming increasingly critical of him: Months earlier, an aide showed him a video montage of promotional clips from the network questioning his leadership of the country. “Is it always like this?” the aide recalled him asking. But he now believed that this tough coverage was part of a concerted campaign. One of his senior aides confronted the Murdochs’ Australian executives in a text that was shared with us. The Turnbull camp knew, it said, that “Lachlan had made it clear at the editors drinks on Tuesday night that he would like MT to get rolled.”Turnbull heard, too, that Rupert Murdoch was miffed at him because he had not reached out to him since he landed in the country, according to three former officials in Turnbull’s government. Turnbull’s chief of staff had been trying to set up a meeting with Murdoch; he now redoubled his efforts. Turnbull settled for a phone call, pleading with Murdoch to back off. “Let me have a look at it, and let me talk to Lachlan,” Murdoch said. “I’m retired. I’ll talk to Lachlan.” (Through a spokesman, Murdoch denied that he felt slighted by Turnbull.)Two days later, Turnbull’s right-wing opponents ousted him through a definitive intraparty vote, known in Australian politics as a leadership “spill.” Chaos ensued, creating round-the-clock political theater for Sky Australia, which logged its highest ratings in the network’s history. (The Murdochs have denied any role in the ouster.)It was always difficult to separate the personal from the financial and the ideological with the Murdochs. All appeared to be in evidence in their decision to turn against Turnbull. To begin with, he took office a few years earlier by ousting Lachlan’s friend Tony Abbott, and it was Abbott who helped lead the Turnbull uprising. Turnbull’s policies were also not perfectly aligned with the Murdochs’ interests. For instance, he had expedited the construction of the country’s national broadband network, which directly threatened the family’s highly profitable cable business by giving Netflix a government-subsidized pipeline into Australian homes.The small number of Australian media outlets that the Murdochs did not own portrayed Turnbull’s ouster as a Murdoch-led “coup.” Kevin Rudd, a former prime minister whom the family had helped push out of office years earlier, described Murdoch in an op-ed in The Sydney Morning Herald as “the greatest cancer on the Australian democracy.”Turnbull was replaced by the right-wing nationalist Scott Morrison, who quickly aligned himself with Trump. The two met in person for the first time in late 2018 at the G-20 summit meeting in Buenos Aires. “I think it’s going to be a great relationship,” Trump said afterward. With a national election scheduled for May 2019, Morrison quickly staked his party’s prospects on the polarizing issue of immigration, promising a new hard-line approach. It dovetailed with Sky’s regular prime-time programming. Andrew Bolt, who previously warned of a “foreign invasion,” said in one segment, “We also risk importing ethnic and religious strife, even terrorism,” as the screen flashed an image of Australia’s potential future: rows of Muslims on a city street, bowing toward Mecca. When the opposing Labor Party managed to muscle through legislation that would allow doctors to transfer severely sick migrants in detention centers on the islands of Nauru and Manus into hospitals in Australia, Sky Australia’s prime-time hosts went on the offensive.The third generation of the Murdoch dynasty was finally taking control. The Disney deal was still pending regulatory approval in a few countries — the two companies had overlapping operations in China, Mexico, Brazil and elsewhere — but Lachlan was already shifting to his new role as chairman and chief executive of the new Fox. The empire was much smaller, but in political terms, at least, it was no less powerful, and its direction was clear.Lachlan generally avoids on-the-record interviews, but now that he was taking ownership of the family business, it seemed appropriate to make at least one public appearance. He chose the New York Times-sponsored DealBook conference about corporate leadership. On Nov. 1, less than three months after the Australian “coup,” Lachlan appeared onstage in the Time Warner Center in Midtown Manhattan. Tieless, in a white shirt, a navy suit and his trademark black outback boots, he offered a selfless account of the Disney deal. “We immediately saw that this made a great deal of strategic sense,” he told his interviewer, the New York Times columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin. He asked Murdoch if there was any part of him that was disappointed at the prospect of the shrinking of his would-be empire. “Your first thought is shareholders,” Lachlan replied. During the brief Q. and A. that followed, Lachlan dismissed the critics of Fox News as narrow-minded. “No, I’m not embarrassed by what they do at all,” he said of the network’s prime-time hosts. “I frankly feel that in this country, we all have to be more tolerant of each other’s views.”In the days leading up to the conference, some Fox News hosts and guests had been moving ever closer to openly embracing the most bigoted sentiments of the white-nationalist movement. A few days before the anti-Semitic attack on a Pittsburgh synagogue that killed 11 Jewish worshipers, a guest on Lou Dobbs’s show had said that a migrant caravan headed to the United States border from Honduras was being funded by the “Soros-occupied State Department.” (The network apologized.) The shooter, according to a post he made on social media, had come to believe that Jews were transporting members of the migrant caravans. When Tucker Carlson came under fire for his increasingly pointed attacks on immigration — “We have a moral obligation to admit the world’s poor, they tell us, even if it makes our country poorer and dirtier and more divided” — he received personal text messages of support from Lachlan, according to two people familiar with the texts.The lines between Fox News and the Trump White House were continuing to blur. At Hannity’s urging, Trump hired the unemployed Bill Shine as his deputy chief of staff for communications in the summer of 2018, ushering in a new era of increased hostility between the White House and the mainstream media: Within days of his arrival in Washington in July 2018, Shine called the Fox control room to change an onscreen chyron about Ivanka Trump that he considered unflattering, according to a source inside Fox, who says his request was denied. Shine also barred Kaitlan Collins, a CNN White House reporter, from an event after she asked Trump several questions about Michael Cohen and President Vladimir Putin of Russia.Unlike his father, Lachlan did not have a long-term relationship with Trump, but he hired the former White House communications director Hope Hicks as the new chief communications officer for the new Fox. Hicks was only 29, but she was the rare member of Trump’s inner circle who left the administration on good terms, and she remained very close to the president, the Trump family and others in the White House. (Kushner has privately told people that he provided a reference for her to Murdoch.)Lachlan’s first initiative was Fox Nation, a subscription-only, on-demand streaming service started last fall for Fox “superfans.” It would be a platform for a new generation of Fox stars and viewers. One of its most prominent personalities was Tomi Lahren, a 26-year-old recent graduate of the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, who had built a large social-media following with bite-size quips; for instance, she referred to Black Lives Matter as “the new KKK” and to refugees as “rape-ugees.” Most of its shows would be live-streamed during the day, making it a convenient alternative to the network’s daytime news programming, which was too politically neutral for many Fox watchers. And because Fox Nation was on the internet, the content could be even less restrained than the network’s evening programming. In addition to opinion-heavy political coverage, there would also be lighter fare — such as a cooking show with the “Fox &amp; Friends” host Steve Doocy — and “deep dives,” including a documentary about the former anchor of the CBS Evening News: “Black Eye: Dan Rather and the Birth of Fake News.” Lachlan’s longer-term plan was to take this undiluted, unchecked form of Fox News overseas.Roger Ailes once blocked Sean Hannity from hosting a Tea Party fund-raiser on his show. When Hannity and the Fox host Jeanine Pirro joined Trump onstage at his final rally before the November midterm elections, the old Ailesian concern that the network should keep at least some distance from its political allies had come to feel quaint. Hannity played to the crowd, referring to all the reporters in the press pen as “fake news” and praising Trump’s accomplishments. After a tepid rebuke from management for participating in the rally, he clarified his comments about the press: They were not intended to refer to Fox’s reporters at the rally, he said, just the rest of the media.At times, Fox News seemed to be dictating presidential policy, or at least channeling the base that appeared to control the White House’s agenda. In late 2018, Trump was heading toward a budget deal with the newly ascendant Democrats until guests and hosts across the network started shaming him, demanding that he not sign any government spending bills that didn’t include $5 billion for a border wall. “Don’t listen to squish advisers,” urged Pete Hegseth, a “Fox &amp; Friends” host. He didn’t. He listened to Fox instead and shut down the federal government. It was the made-for-TV climax of a campaign started months earlier. And like the enduring paralysis of the British government and the political upheaval in Australia, it was the legacy of a single family that was now descending into a chaos of its own.Having spent almost his entire adult life trying to prove that he was worthy of running the Murdoch empire, James had finally broken with it. He struck out on his own at the end of 2018, setting up his own family office in a new building in Greenwich Village to manage his vastly expanded fortune and invest in technology start-ups. By now, he and his brother were barely on speaking terms.James had always accepted as a given the interlacing of politics and business that had built his family’s fortune. He had even practiced his own version of it, however unsuccessfully, in London. He had stayed with the company for more than two decades, to prove himself to his father and because of dynastic obligation. “I can’t leave,” he told a friend during the hacking scandal. “I was brought up to do this.” The bonds were not just emotional: His fortune was tied up in his holdings in the family business. In the end, his father had chosen Lachlan. The empire that James had long sought to run was being dismantled. Lachlan had won their lifelong competition to become their father’s heir, but then, what had he really won? To friends, James dismissed his brother’s new company as “an American political project.”But even now, James couldn’t fully distance himself from the new company: He was still holding a large chunk of its voting stock, and as long as that was the case, his fortunes would be tied to Lachlan’s “American political project.” He couldn’t cash out, because Murdoch had made sure that none of his children would be able to sell their voting shares to an outsider. And yet, as levers with which to influence the company, these shares were virtually useless because their father remained the controlling shareholder in the family trust. James saw only one solution. He would sell his stock to Lachlan and his father, and maybe his sisters would join him. What was once a complex family dynasty would become a simple hereditary monarchy. Elisabeth and Prudence enthusiastically agreed. Murdoch, too, was excited about the idea, seeing it as an opportunity to rid the company of an in-house critic. He urged Lachlan to do it: The two of them, father and son, would own the company together. The documents were drawn up, but in late 2018, given the chance to have the company to himself, Lachlan balked. (Through a spokesman, Lachlan said that buying out his siblings wasn’t financially feasible.)Had Murdoch won or lost? On the one hand, Murdoch had achieved everything he wanted. He had made all his children multibillionaires, while not only keeping the division of his company that was most dear to him but also passing on control of it to his favorite son. Everyone, Murdoch included, had thought Hillary Clinton was going to win in 2016, but he had made a bet on a different candidate — and the power of a countervailing historical force — and he’d been rewarded with ratings, money and access. And yet that bet had torn apart both his family and his company. What was left was not a sprawling media empire that contained all his ambitions, but a political weapon.James and Kathryn were planning to devote some of their fortune to try to neutralize that weapon. In early 2019, their foundation, Quadrivium, announced initiatives to defend democratic nations against what they saw as the rising threat of illiberal populism and to bolster voting rights.The Disney deal was scheduled to close in the spring. During the family’s final months as the owners of the storied 21st Century Fox, they attended the Oscar festivities one last time. It had long been an annual event for the Murdochs; in an earlier era, the family hosted a few events of their own, celebrity-filled parties at their Beverly Hills home.There was a brief but memorable exchange at the Vanity Fair dinner during the ceremony. In one sense, it was a recapitulation of the ideological conflict that was dividing both the Murdochs and the world. In another, it was just a family spat. When it came to the Murdochs, was there really a difference?At the Vanity Fair dinner during the ceremony, Kathryn was seated next to Jon Lovett, a former speechwriter for Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton and a host of the vehemently anti-Trump podcast “Pod Save America.” Lovett did not seem thrilled with his table assignment, but as he and Kathryn started talking, it quickly became clear that she did not share the politics of the Murdoch family business. The conversation inevitably turned to Fox News and the damage it was doing. Kathryn offered to introduce Lovett to the chief executive of the network, her brother-in-law, who was seated at a table nearby. Lovett initially resisted — “I don’t need to talk to this person. It’s not going to be pleasant for anyone” — but later in the evening, Kathryn brought them together.“Do you feel proud of what’s happening between 8 and 11 every night?” Lovett asked. “You think this is good for the world?”“Yeah, I think they’re doing a great job,” Lachlan replied. Then Lachlan threw the question back at Lovett: Were there any conservative voices he would accept on Fox? Before Lovett could answer, Kathryn interjected, ticking off a list of anti-Trump Republicans.Lachlan turned away and joined another conversation.On the morning of March 19, 2019, the new, streamlined Fox officially became a publicly traded, if Murdoch-controlled, company, with Lachlan as its chairman and chief executive and Murdoch as co-chairman. Its name was simply Fox Corporation. A week earlier, Fox News held its first “upfront” for advertising agencies, trying to reassure skittish ad buyers that the network represented a “safe” brand for their products, according to a report in Ad Age. There were videotaped interviews with Fox News viewers — “they deliver the news accurately and honestly” — and a panel discussion with Fox personalities, who expressed optimism about the state of the country and the network. “This is a great time to be an American,” Laura Ingraham said. “Pretty much right now, I don’t see how it can get much better than this.”In the 22-year history of the network, the Fox News Effect had never been more pronounced. A March study by Navigation Research, a Democratic firm, found that 12 percent of Fox News viewers believe that climate change is mostly caused by humans, compared with 62 percent of all other Americans. At the same time, 78 percent of Fox viewers believe that Trump has accomplished more than any president in American history, compared with 17 percent of other Americans.The same could be said of the more global Murdoch effect. Brexit-inspired chaos continued to rattle Britain. Both of Theresa May’s proposals to formalize the country’s break with the European Union were rejected by the British Parliament. The possibility of a “no-deal Brexit” — in which the country would simply crash out of the European bloc, quite possibly triggering a historic economic collapse — loomed. In late March, more than a million protesters took to the streets of London to demand a second Brexit referendum. With May’s fellow conservatives questioning her continued leadership of the party, a former Murdoch columnist, editor and friend, Michael Gove — now a member of Parliament — was being talked about as a possible replacement.Thousands of miles away, another consequence of the global ethnonationalist fervor that the Murdoch empire had amplified and mainstreamed was playing out in New Zealand, where an Australian white nationalist, Brenton Tarrant, stood accused of killing 50 worshipers at two Christchurch mosques on March 14. There was no direct connection between Tarrant and Sky Australia, but critics of the network quickly drew attention to its consistently anti-Muslim rhetoric. In an online comment, unearthed by the Australian Broadcasting Corporation, Tarrant had described Trump’s election as “one of the most important events in modern history.” He was also a fan of the white nationalist Blair Cottrell, whose appearance on Sky Australia over the summer caused American Express to pull its ads from the network. Following the massacre, a young Muslim employee of Sky News in Australia quit in protest. “Over the past few years, I was playing a role — no matter how small — in a network whose tone I knew would help legitimize radical views present in the fringes of our society,” she wrote in a post on the Australian Broadcasting Corporation’s website.In the United States, what remained of the Murdoch empire was already gearing up for the 2020 presidential election. One of its first steps was to bring The New York Post more in line with Fox News. The paper had long been Trump’s first read — it was delivered daily to the White House — but its coverage was not uniformly favorable. In January, the Murdochs brought back one of the paper’s former editors, Col Allan, to help run the paper. An old Trump golf partner, Allan had come up through Australia’s tabloids and has been described as “Rupe’s attack dog.” Jesse Angelo, The Post’s publisher — and James’s lifelong best friend — resigned shortly after hearing the news.Across Fox News, hosts treated the submission of the Mueller Report in late March as the end of a two-year witch hunt and the beginning of Trump’s re-election campaign. The probe had resulted in the indictments of 34 individuals; guilty pleas and convictions from five former Trump business associates or former campaign officials; and a number of ongoing state, federal and congressional investigations. But on Fox’s prime time, Mueller’s decision against bringing new indictments was portrayed as vindication of what the hosts had been telling the audience all along: The investigation was a deep-state coup by the Democrats, helped along by mainstream reporters who were deliberately misinforming the public. The Democrats and their allies in the press had failed to overthrow Trump this time, Fox’s hosts and their guests warned, but their efforts would only grow more intense in the coming months. “They need to be pummeled into the political dirt and become acknowledged as the minority they are,” Rush Limbaugh, the dean of the right-wing radio hosts, said on Hannity’s show. The 2020 campaign and the new era of the Murdoch dynasty had begun.April 3, 2019April 3, 2019April 3, 2019An earlier version of this article incorrectly described the islands of Nauru and Manus. Nauru is independent and Manus is part of Papua New Guinea. Neither are part of Australia.Jonathan Mahler is a staff writer for the magazine who has previously written about the relationship between CNN and Donald Trump. Jim Rutenberg is the Times media columnist and a writer at large for the magazine, covering media and political organizations.Photo illustrations by Joan WongPhoto illustrations by Joan Wong

FeatureThe C.F.P.B. was created to protect Americans from predatory lenders after the financial crisis. President Trump’s new chief of staff took it apart on his way to White House.CreditCreditTypography by Tyler ComrieSupported byBy Nicholas ConfessoreOne rainy afternoon early in February 2018, a procession of consumer experts and activists made their way to the headquarters of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau in Washington to meet Mick Mulvaney, then the bureau’s acting director. The building — an aging Brutalist layer cake, selected by the bureau’s founders for the aspirational symbolism of its proximity to the White House, one block away — was under renovation, and so each visitor in turn trudged around to a side entrance. Inside the building, Mulvaney had begun another kind of reconstruction, one that would shift the balance of power between the politically influential industries that lend money and the hundreds of millions of Americans who borrow it.Three months earlier, President Trump installed Mulvaney, a former congressman from South Carolina, as the C.F.P.B.’s acting director. Elizabeth Warren, who helped create the agency in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis, envisioned it as a kind of economic equalizer for American consumers, a counter to the country’s rising structural inequality. Republicans had come to view her creation as a “rogue agency” with “dictatorial powers unique in the American republic,” as the party’s 2016 platform put it. In Congress, Mulvaney had established himself as an outspoken enemy of the bureau, describing it, memorably, as a “joke” in “a sick, sad kind of way” and sponsoring legislation to abolish it.Some of those invited to the meeting in February had picketed outside the bureau’s headquarters on Mulvaney’s first day at work. Their unease had only grown as Mulvaney ordered a hiring freeze, put new enforcement cases on hold and sent the Federal Reserve, which funds the C.F.P.B., a budget request for zero dollars, saying the bureau could make do with the money it had on hand. Within weeks, Mulvaney announced that he would reconsider one of the bureau’s major long-term initiatives: rules to restrict payday loans, products that are marketed to the working poor as an emergency lifeline but frequently leave them buried in debt. “Anybody who thinks that a Trump-administration C.F.P.B. would be the same as an Obama-administration C.F.P.B. is simply being naïve,” Mulvaney told reporters. “Elections have consequences at every agency.”Mulvaney was also aware that appearances have consequences. For agency heads, it is important to appear open to all points of view about their regulatory decisions, especially if they end up having to defend them in court. In February, he agreed to meet with his critics in person. Thirty or so people gathered around a conference table as rain lashed the windows. Mulvaney, who is 51, has close-cropped hair and a bulldog countenance that befits his manner. A founder of the House’s hard-line Freedom Caucus, he can be sarcastic, even withering, in hearings and speeches. But Mulvaney struck a placating tone with his guests. He kept his opening remarks brief, according to six people who attended the meeting. Important things at the bureau would not change, he reassured them. “I’m not here to burn the place down,” he insisted. Mulvaney said he did not intend to discuss his plans for the payday-loan rule with them but encouraged everyone to share their views.Many of Mulvaney’s guests came from advocacy groups, like Americans for Financial Reform and the Center for Responsible Lending, that often did battle with Washington’s powerful financial-industry lobby. But the meeting also included a dozen religious leaders, among them officials from national evangelical and Baptist organizations, whose members tend to be among Trump’s most loyal supporters. These leaders viewed payday lending as not only unfair but also sinful, and they had fought against it across Trump country — in deep-red South Dakota, on the same day Trump won the presidency, voters overwhelmingly approved a ballot measure effectively banning payday loans. The ministers had planned carefully for their moment with Mulvaney, and for 20 minutes they took turns detailing the harm that payday lending had inflicted on their neighborhoods and congregations. Eventually they gave the floor to the Rev. Amiri B. Hooker, who led an African-American church near Mulvaney’s old congressional district.“I told him I was from Kershaw County,” Hooker told me recently, recalling his exchange with Mulvaney. “He smiled and asked how were the good folks from Kershaw.” When Hooker pastored in Lake City, an hour away from Kershaw, a quarter of his congregation either had taken out payday loans themselves or knew someone who had. He told Mulvaney about an 84-year-old congregant in Lake City whom, during a week that she was so sick that she missed services, he saw hobbling toward him down the street. “She said, ‘I had to go pay my bill,’ ” Hooker recalled. The woman had taken out a $250 loan almost three years earlier to cover her granddaughter’s heating bill. She was still paying it off, Hooker told Mulvaney, at a cost of $75 a month, rolling over the loan into a new one each time.[How cities make money by fining the poor.]Despite his earlier reticence, Mulvaney seemed eager to offer his own view of how the bureau ought to operate. It wasn’t up to the federal government to stop people from taking the kind of credit that suited them, he suggested: “There’s no reason people should be taking these loans — but they do.” He pointed out that there wasn’t anyone in the room from North Carolina, where payday lending was illegal. They should plead their case to state officials. “You have a place to go to address payday loans, and it’s not me,” he said, according to multiple attendees. As the C.F.P.B.’s acting director, he wouldn’t stop enforcing the law as written. He only wanted a more efficient bureau, he explained, one steeped in evidence-based decision-making, one that educated consumers to make good decisions on their own. Mulvaney provided few details about how it would all look, but he promised the pastors he would follow up to let them know which way he decided to go on payday-loan regulation. “I’ve never heard from him,” Hooker says.In the months that followed, Mulvaney’s vision for the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau would become clearer. This account of Mulvaney’s tenure is based on interviews with more than 60 current or former bureau employees, current and former Mulvaney aides, consumer advocates and financial-industry executives and lobbyists, as well as hundreds of pages of internal bureau documents obtained by The New York Times and others. When Mulvaney took over, the fledgling C.F.P.B. was perhaps Washington’s most feared financial regulator: It announced dozens of cases annually against abusive debt collectors, sloppy credit agencies and predatory lenders, and it was poised to force sweeping changes on the $30 billion payday-loan industry, one of the few corners of the financial world that operates free of federal regulation. What he left behind is an agency whose very mission is now a matter of bitter dispute. “The bureau was constructed really deliberately to protect ordinary people,” says Lisa Donner, the head of Americans for Financial Reform. “He’s taken it apart — dismantled it, piece by piece, brick by brick.”Mulvaney’s careful campaign of deconstruction offers a case study in the Trump administration’s approach to transforming Washington, one in which strategic neglect and bureaucratic self-sabotage create versions of agencies that seem to run contrary to their basic premises. According to one person who speaks with Mulvaney often, his smooth subdual of the C.F.P.B. was part of his pitch to Trump for his promotion to White House chief of staff — long one of the most powerful jobs in Washington. Mulvaney’s slow-rolling attack on the bureau’s enforcement and regulatory powers wasn’t just one of the Trump era’s most emblematic assaults on the so-called administrative state. It was also, in part, an audition.The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau emerged from a liberal concern that the American political economy was increasingly defined by inequality and consumer debt. As a young academic in the 1980s, Warren began studying how and why some Americans ended up taking on more debt than they could handle. The act of borrowing money, she learned, was growing increasingly risky and complex. As the consumer-credit industry grew, credit-card companies and mortgage lenders began to design their products to appear cheaper than they actually were. Unlike most things people buy, financial products became defined by their ever-lengthening terms and conditions: mandatory arbitration, reverse amortization, interest-rate calculations that can change at a whim, cross-default clauses and two-cycle billing, mysterious credit scores that emanate from Equifax and Experian as if from the temples of an obscurantist cult. “The real money was in the fine print,” Warren told me recently.Warren, who is now a senator from Massachusetts and a Democratic candidate for president, spoke to me by phone as she was making her way to New Hampshire for a campaign swing. On the trail and off, Warren depicts the rise of the consumer financial industry as part of an elemental structural shift in American life. Wealthy people and big corporations were not just eating up a growing share of the pie; they had rigged the marketplace to help them do it. All that fine print didn’t just shift billions upon billions of dollars into the hands of lenders, Warren argued. It shifted power. Lenders could more safely harvest a few dollars in fees from the checking account of each customer, even when doing so broke the law, when mandatory arbitration clauses in the fine print prohibit customers from joining together in a class action to get their money back. Brokers could more easily push a family to a higher-cost mortgage, even when they qualified for a cheaper one, if the family believed they were getting the best possible deal. The increase in debt-financed consumption helped paper over the stagnating wages of the middle class and the growing gap between the rich and everyone else. But it was also driving an epidemic of social misery: bankruptcy and lost homes, anxiety and shame.In her research, Warren found that people got in over their heads not because they were greedy or lacked self-discipline, but because they were being outmatched by a sophisticated and often predatory industry of lenders. Warren recalled being struck by “the number of people who said, in our interviews, ‘I never understood my payment would go up on that’ or ‘I didn’t understand I owed more on my house than I paid for it,’ ” she told me. “Even after they had seen a lawyer and declared bankruptcy, they still didn’t understand what had happened.” In a 2007 article titled “Unsafe at Any Rate,” Warren proposed the creation of a new regulatory agency to oversee consumer-credit products. When she lobbied lawmakers on Capitol Hill after the financial crisis, Warren would take them a selection of credit-card agreements. “I’d lay three of them down on the table, and I’d say, ‘Tell me which one is the cheapest credit card.’ ” None could.Warren and other consumer advocates argued that payday lenders built their industry on a similar sleight of hand. They marketed themselves as lenders of last resort, offering emergency loans for a broken-down car or an unexpected medical bill. But according to Nick Bourke, a former financial-services consultant who now directs consumer-finance research at the Pew Charitable Trusts, what fed the industry’s growth were not emergency expenses but the increasingly unstable incomes of the working poor. As their hourly wages fluctuated at the whims of workplace-optimization software, payday-loan customers — typically white women earning around $30,000, according to Pew’s research — borrowed to pay their rent or electric bills. The average customer paid $55 in fees to borrow $375, due on their next payday. But most found that they couldn’t afford to repay the loan after two weeks. They took out another loan to cover the first, and usually another.Consumer advocates called this cycle a “debt trap” and argued that payday lenders, much like credit-card companies, disguised the true costs of their products. Store clerks emphasized the small-seeming fees and pushed customers to roll their old loans into new ones, so that the fees snowballed, eventually exceeding the cost of the original loan. While most banks made money by finding customers who could repay their debts on time, payday lenders made money by finding customers who couldn’t. “If borrowers repaid loans in just two weeks and walked away as advertised, lenders would go out of business,” Bourke says.Improbably, the payday-loan industry earned a fortune from the working poor. The short loan terms and frequent rollovers pumped out profits faster than conventional lending, requiring less capital and yielding bigger profits. Beginning in the 1990s, federal and state deregulation set off a payday-loan gold rush. In states like Utah, North Carolina and Missouri, the number of storefront lenders tripled or even quintupled practically overnight. Lenders clustered around big military bases throughout the South, where they could target service members, most of them young, low-paid and living the kind of peripatetic lives that made them ideal payday-loan customers. “Anybody with $50,000 can get into payday lending in some states,” one former payday-loan executive told me. “The model is designed to print money.”Some of the largest payday lenders built national franchises and took their companies public during the frothy 2000s, fueling further expansion. Silicon Valley venture capitalists stepped in, building lead-generation databases and online platforms to compete against traditional storefront lenders. So did Wall Street. In recent years, leading private-equity firms, including Golden Gate Capital and the Fortress Investment Group, have acquired or bought stakes in almost two dozen short-term lenders. Payday lenders, which once operated on the fringes of the financial world, are now in unlikely alignment with the titans of high finance: Each has benefited enormously from Trump’s deregulatory policies, which Trump has cast as populist and his likely 2020 opponents have assailed as plutocratic.“When you think about structures that perpetuate racial and economic inequality — this is it,” says Diane Standaert, the director of state policy at the Center for Responsible Lending, which advocates tighter regulation on lenders. “These are entities that suck up billions of dollars a year from people making $25,000 a year. And it’s going into the pockets of the wealthiest people in the world.”Mulvaney began his political career in the heart of payday-loan country, just as the industry’s headlong expansion began running into serious resistance. In South Carolina, short-term lending is not only a significant industry but also a political force. Payday lenders dole out more campaign money than traditional banks do, most of it to committees controlled by the Legislature’s powerful Republican leaders. The country’s biggest payday-loan chain, Advance America, is based in Spartanburg, where a local business school is named for a company founder, George Dean Johnson Jr., and the company’s chief spokesman, Jamie Fulmer, serves part time as a city councilman.Mulvaney, who worked as a lawyer, restaurateur and real estate developer before entering politics, ran for a seat in the State House in 2006, when South Carolina had around a thousand payday lenders, one of the highest densities in the country. Two years later, Mulvaney won election to the State Senate, in a district that stretched along South Carolina’s border with North Carolina, which had outlawed payday lenders in 2001. Mulvaney, a junior lawmaker, received only a sprinkle of checks from the payday-loan industry during his time in the Legislature. But payday lenders did a brisk business in and around Mulvaney’s district, throwing up billboards along Interstate 77 and advertising in the Charlotte phone book to draw customers from across the border. For some constituents, particularly in rural areas of the district, payday lending served as a de facto line of credit. Emma Doyle, a close aide since Mulvaney’s time in Congress, told me that his views of the payday-loan industry were shaped, in part, by hearing from lower-income constituents who relied on payday lenders when they had nowhere else to go. “It was something he had worked on, something he had heard from a lot of people about,” Doyle told me. “Not everybody ends up in a debt trap. Not everyone ends up saying, ‘I wish I hadn’t taken this out’ or ‘I wish it hadn’t been available to me.’ ”North Carolina’s expulsion of payday lenders was the first in a series of setbacks for the industry that unfolded through the decade. In 2005, federal officials began cracking down on “rent-a-bank” schemes, in which payday-loan companies formed partnerships with banks in states that had loose lending regulations to export high-interest loans to customers in states that banned them. A year later, with tens of thousands of American soldiers deploying to Iraq and Afghanistan, Congress passed the Military Lending Act, imposing a rate cap on payday loans and auto-title loans to service members. Over Mulvaney’s first two years in the Legislature, several other states passed new restrictions on lenders, and proposals to follow suit were among the most hotly debated legislation in the Capitol.At first, payday-loan supporters successfully bottled up the bills in committee. But in 2008, as the subprime-mortgage implosion set off a global financial crisis, the politics of financial regulation abruptly shifted. Public anger against lenders spread around the country, and amid the wreckage of lost homes and destroyed savings, the wave engulfed payday lenders too. In the November elections, Democrats in Washington began drafting the Dodd-Frank reform act, adopting Warren’s idea for a new consumer financial regulator. Even in South Carolina, there were calls to ban payday lending altogether. “You had a lot of horror stories out there about people carrying multiple loans and taking out one loan to pay off another loan,” recalls Wes Hayes, a Republican who served with Mulvaney in the State Senate.Hayes began working with Advance America and other lenders on a compromise that would limit South Carolinians to taking out one payday loan at a time. “We were trying to break the cycle,” he told me. For payday lenders, Hayes’s bill was also a kind of breakwater, intended to absorb the anger building against the industry in South Carolina and elsewhere. Advance America pushed lawmakers to support the compromise. Johnson, the company’s co-founder, personally lobbied the state’s governor at the time, Mark Sanford, according to a former Sanford aide. “It strengthened the consumer protections that were in our state, but also allowed consumers access to the credit they needed,” Fulmer says.But not everyone was convinced. In the Senate, Mulvaney belonged to a small group of young conservatives who called themselves the William Wallace Caucus, after the Scottish freedom fighter portrayed in “Braveheart.” Like a growing number of conservatives around the country, they viewed the Republican Party of the Bush years as adrift from small-government principles. In the depths of the recession, Mulvaney sided with Sanford against their fellow Republicans when Sanford tried to reject federal stimulus money — funds that Mulvaney cast as an ominous expansion of big-government power. Hayes’s payday-loan bill came to the floor a few weeks later. Sanford, the aide told me, was skeptical that borrowers were being misled by payday lenders and made clear he would veto the bill. Republicans in the Legislature laid plans to override him. In May 2009, Hayes’s compromise passed overwhelmingly.Only four members of the State Senate voted against the legislation. One of them was Mulvaney. A few months after the vote, he announced that he would run for Congress, joining the Tea Party wave that was building around the country.The C.F.P.B. that opened its doors in 2011 had been carefully constructed to survive the fight ahead. Warren and her colleagues wanted a bureau that could resist the political pressures that, in their view, had cowed and co-opted other financial regulators leading up to the crisis. The C.F.P.B. was funded directly by the Federal Reserve, insulating it from congressional appropriators. The sole political appointee was its director, who would serve a five-year term and could be fired only for wrongdoing. Facing stiff Republican congressional resistance to the prospect of Warren taking the job, Obama ultimately picked Richard Cordray, a cerebral former Ohio attorney general.The new agency had the feel of a start-up. Cordray, a Democrat, made an effort to recruit broadly, bringing in financial-industry veterans and former prosecutors, but Warren’s creation inevitably attracted Warren acolytes and veterans of consumer-advocacy groups, many of whom landed in the enforcement division. As the human and financial costs of the subprime-mortgage crash mounted, the new bureau was inundated with whistle-blower tips and consumer complaints. Cordray and his leadership team initially planned to focus on the biggest consumer-finance players, like mortgage lenders and credit-card companies; payday lenders were a relatively small industry compared with Wall Street. But it was growing quickly: The crisis had been good for business, pulling more middle-class families into the payday-loan market. And unlike banks, payday lenders were unregulated by the federal government. “It was affecting a lot of people at the margins who could least afford to run into trouble,” Cordray told me recently.In 2012, the C.F.P.B. began conducting supervisory exams of payday lenders, a process that required them to open up their offices and books, and sometimes yielded evidence of predatory lending for the bureau’s enforcement team to take up. A company called Ace Cash Express, investigators found, harassed overdue borrowers by using phony legal threats. The investigation yielded a potent illustration of the debt trap: Ace Cash’s training manual, which instructed employees to pressure borrowers into paying off overdue loans by taking out new ones, illustrated its customer-service doctrine with a graphic resembling a recycling symbol, with one “short-term” loan fueling the next in an endless loop of debt.Other investigations underscored the contempt that some lenders had for their new regulator. When the bureau informed Cash America, a major firm based in Texas, that it planned to conduct an examination, employees there shredded internal records and deleted recordings of phone calls with customers. Managers at the firm instructed employees to mislead the bureau’s examiners about its sales practices and stripped its call center of posters exhorting the employees to collect on debts. (The bureau later found that Cash America had illegally overcharged hundreds of service members and their families and ordered the company to pay a $5 million fine.)The exams also provided an insider’s view of the historically insular industry, data that in turn guided the bureau’s enforcement lawyers and regulation writers. A bureau study of 15 million loans found that customers who kept rolling their loans over — taking out 10 or more a year — were the cream of the payday-loan industry, generating three-quarters of all loan fees. Advance America and other lenders disputed these findings, arguing that the bureau had undercounted one-time borrowers. But Cordray and his team saw evidence of a major regulatory failure: State-level reform efforts had largely failed to rein in the industry’s most abusive features, like debt traps. And lenders were devising ever-more-sophisticated tools to evade state regulation altogether: Some incorporated on Indian reservations or in offshore financial havens, selling loans online and claiming to be immune from state laws entirely.A faction in the bureau advocated a strategy of hyperaggressive enforcement lawsuits to bring the industry to heel. Instead, Cordray settled on a two-pronged strategy, according to current and former bureau employees. Enforcement lawyers would begin prosecuting the industry’s worst scofflaws, especially the growing online lenders. But at the same time, the bureau would develop a package of tough rules that would apply to everyone.In 2015, the agency outlined its core proposal, one that would eliminate debt traps: an ability-to-repay rule. Under such a rule, payday lenders would have to check whether borrowers could afford to pay back a loan before making it in the first place — a short-term loan would have to actually be short-term, not just bait for a debt trap. The rule would have real teeth: If companies lent money to people who couldn’t afford to pay it back, they could face prosecution and sizable fines. “We wanted to prompt reform in the industry,” Cordray says. “If they couldn’t reform their products, some of them would get out of the industry altogether.”[Why jobs aren’t the solution to poverty.]The backlash against the proposal was severe. Dennis Shaul, who leads the Community Financial Services Association of America, an industry trade group founded by Advance America and other payday lenders, told me that his group would have supported some limits on repeat borrowing. But the ability-to-repay rule, his members felt, was designed to shrink their industry. “We felt their solution was arbitrary,” Shaul says. The association worked with Jones Day, a powerhouse Washington law firm, to mount an all-fronts legal challenge. Advance America accused consumer-advocacy groups like the Center for Responsible Lending, whose alumni dotted the bureau and who had consulted closely with it on the proposed rules, of “infiltrating” the C.F.P.B. (The revolving door, of course, spun both ways: Shaul was recruited by the industry after working for Barney Frank, the Massachusetts Democrat who was an author of Dodd-Frank, and dozens of former bureau officials have gone on to work for the financial industry.) The industry mustered studies, including one by the bureau’s former assistant research director, finding that the bureau’s proposal would cut revenue so drastically as to put storefront companies out of business.Not everyone in the industry agreed with this argument. The former payday-loan executive told me that most of his old industry would have survived under the ability-to-repay rule, but with a less lucrative business model. “You’d still make money,” the former executive says. “It would just be less money.” But payday lenders found a willing audience in Congress, where Republicans on the House Financial Services Committee — including Mulvaney, who joined the committee in 2013 — had worked aggressively to bring Washington’s new watchdog to heel. The committee was led by Jeb Hensarling, a Texas Republican who regarded the bureau as a constitutional abomination and Cordray as a “benevolent financial-product dictator,” as he put it in one hearing. Hensarling hammered Cordray with subpoenas and accused the bureau of mismanagement and waste. Mulvaney regarded Hensarling as a mentor and held similar views about the bureau’s structure and powers. “Some of us would like to get rid of it,” Mulvaney told a reporter in 2014. At oversight hearings, Mulvaney questioned Cordray relentlessly about the bureau’s budget and his payday-loan proposal, even introducing a bill that would allow states to opt out from the ability-to-repay rule for five years. Payday lenders, seeing Mulvaney as an ally, donated tens of thousands of dollars to his campaigns.But as the 2016 election approached, aggressive enforcement by the C.F.P.B. and other federal regulators had cast a pall over the industry. Its money machine began to slow. That year alone, storefront-payday-loan fees plummeted by more than a quarter, according to an internal industry presentation that I obtained. The C.F.P.B. was “biased against our industry, our product and our customers,” Fulmer, the Advance America spokesman, told me. “We were in a very perilous position coming to the fall of 2016.”Like almost every industry in America, payday lenders weren’t prepared for a Trump victory. But it quickly became clear that his election presented an opportunity. While Trump ran as a populist, promising to tear down a “rigged system” — language that echoed Warren’s own rhetoric — his anti-Wall Street rhetoric fused with a pro-Wall Street platform. Advance America and others from the industry flooded Trump’s inauguration committee with more than a million dollars in contributions.Trump stocked his cabinet with billionaires and Wall Street veterans, including Gary Cohn, the former president of Goldman Sachs, who became his chief economic adviser. Trump, with Hensarling’s encouragement, tapped Mulvaney to run the Office of Management and Budget. The new administration immediately came under pressure to dismiss Cordray, who had almost 18 months left in his term as C.F.P.B. director. But Cohn and others in the White House were cautious, according to a person familiar with the discussions. The move would have plunged the administration into a risky legal battle against the bureau. They also believed — correctly, as it turned out — that Cordray would leave the bureau to run for governor of Ohio; a high-profile firing might actually help his campaign. Cohn persuaded Trump that the Cordray problem would soon take care of itself and began identifying candidates to replace him.The list was short. To take over the agency immediately, without a time-consuming nomination fight, the White House needed someone who had already been confirmed by the Senate for another administration job. Trump settled on Mulvaney, asking him to continue as budget chief and also run the bureau until he could appoint a permanent successor there. Mulvaney, according to people close to him, did not campaign for the job but eagerly accepted it, drawn to the opportunity to remake the C.F.P.B. In November 2017, just weeks after finalizing the new ability-to-repay rule, Cordray announced his departure. Citing succession rules laid out in Dodd-Frank, Cordray tried to install a top aide, Leandra English, as the new acting director. The C.F.P.B.’s own general counsel sided with the White House, writing a memo backing Mulvaney’s appointment; English fought the appointment in court but ultimately quit. Mulvaney landed at the bureau just after Thanksgiving, bearing a bag full of doughnuts for his new colleagues.Mulvaney had given some thought to taking control of a bureaucracy that didn’t necessarily want him there. He told reporters that he wanted his second agency to be more like his first, the Office of Management and Budget, where career employees are matched with appointees who serve at the president’s pleasure. “Maybe they didn’t think they needed to have any political people here because a lot of the people here were political anyway,” Mulvaney said. To become less political, Mulvaney decided, the bureau would first have to become more political. Each of the senior career officials in charge of the bureau’s divisions, who had the title of associate director, would get a Mulvaney-appointed twin, known as a policy associate director, or PAD. To lead the PADs, Mulvaney hired Brian Johnson, a senior Hensarling aide who had helped lead the inquisition of Cordray’s bureau. In his old job, Johnson helped draft a report — titled “Unsafe at Any Bureaucracy” — alleging that the bureau used shoddy statistics and legally questionable tactics to prosecute auto lenders accused of having racially discriminated against car buyers. In his new job, Johnson quoted Adam Smith and attacked what he called “paternalistic” policies. According to two former staff members, Johnson, citing an overlooked subsection of Dodd-Frank, soon revised a boilerplate description of the bureau’s mission that was appended to the bottom of news releases. It would henceforth include a reference to eliminating “unduly burdensome regulations.”Emma Doyle, who went on to serve with Mulvaney at the bureau, told me that the PADs were intended to make life easier for career employees. “It’s helpful to be able to translate what the director’s vision is back down to staff and have the staff have an intermediary interceding on their behalf,” she said. But the appointments drew outrage inside and outside the C.F.P.B. Older agencies were accustomed to the ebb and flow of administrations, each with its own priorities. But many at the bureau believed in Warren’s idea of a regulator that permanently represented the interest of consumers — at least, as they defined it. Each side argued that the other wanted to politicize an otherwise pristine bureaucracy. “I originally designed the agency to be as nonpolitical as possible,” Warren told me. “When Mulvaney came in and brought in his own team of political hacks and put them in the agency, I was shocked.”Mulvaney’s appointments were particularly alarming to the bureau’s supervision and enforcement staff, led by a former line attorney named Chris D’Angelo. When Mulvaney first arrived, D’Angelo urged his staff not to assume the worst, people who worked with him told me. But D’Angelo grew alarmed when Mulvaney named his PAD, a midlevel administration financial-services lawyer named Eric Blankenstein, who had little experience in consumer enforcement. D’Angelo took his case directly to Mulvaney. He argued that career enforcement officials at other financial regulatory agencies, like the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, reported directly to the appointed head of the agency, in order to create a clear line of accountability for enforcement decisions.Mulvaney did not budge. (D’Angelo, who left the bureau in February, declined to comment.) After Blankenstein arrived, lawyers in the enforcement office were ordered to prepare summaries justifying every active enforcement matter — more than 100 open cases, most of them not yet public. Two days later, without warning, the bureau filed a one-sentence notice in federal court in Kansas announcing that it was withdrawing a high-profile lawsuit against a quartet of payday lenders, a case known as Golden Valley.The Golden Valley lawsuit was a product of Cordray’s enforcement strategy against scofflaw lenders. According to the bureau’s complaint, Golden Valley and three other lenders were technically owned by the Habematolel Pomo of Upper Lake, a California tribe, but were largely run out of a call center in Kansas. The lenders made payday loans over the internet, claiming that tribal ownership allowed the firm to ignore usury laws in states where its triple-digit interest rates were illegal. Using a legal theory the bureau had successfully employed in earlier cases — that trying to collect on illegal loans is itself a deceptive business practice under Dodd-Frank — the bureau filed suit against Golden Valley and the other lenders in the spring of 2017. The sudden withdrawal mystified and worried other lawyers in the division, who wondered what implications it held for their own cases.As the grumbling spread throughout his division, Blankenstein convened a staff conference call. According to two people who were on the call, Blankenstein told them that in a previous meeting Mulvaney asked several questions about the Golden Valley case, including whether the defendants had fair notice that the bureau would view their conduct as illegal under Dodd-Frank. One person on the call later described this “fair notice” argument to me as one that could, in practice, justify throwing out many of the bureau’s other payday-loan cases, which advanced much the same theory as the Golden Valley lawsuit. But strikingly, according to the two people on the call, Blankenstein claimed that he himself didn’t know exactly why Mulvaney pulled the case.Some career employees saw a kind of strategic ambiguity at work, designed to muddle decision-making and insulate Mulvaney as he neutered the agency’s enforcement work. The bureau’s enforcement lawyers typically spent months or years developing cases from the bureau’s complaint database or from information garnered from supervisory exams. In a memo to the staff, Mulvaney pledged to prioritize enforcement according to the volume of consumer complaints the bureau received, nearly a third of which related to debt collection and only 2 percent of which concerned payday lending. But bureau employees told me it was difficult to discern which particular cases and legal theories Mulvaney might allow to go forward, casting a chill over the work. Where Cordray had allowed lower-ranking enforcement lawyers to present cases to him directly, Mulvaney required lawyers to present their cases through Blankenstein, and bureau employees told me they had little sense of whether Blankenstein was arguing for them or against them when he took cases to Mulvaney. Craig Cowie, a former bureau enforcement lawyer who supervised several major payday-loan cases, including the one against Golden Valley, worked under Mulvaney for six months. “I never met him,” Cowie told me. “I was never even in the same room as him.” (Cowie declined to discuss any specific case, citing confidentiality rules.) “And I don’t recall him ever visiting enforcement,” he added.By February, Mulvaney had spread a kind of bureaucratic fog across his new agency. He moved the Office of Fair Lending and Equal Opportunity from Blankenstein’s enforcement division to his own director’s office, frustrating coordination between the bureau’s experts on discriminatory lending and the lawyers who enforced the law. He took responsibility for coordinating the bureau’s oversight of the Military Lending Act away from the bureau’s service member affairs chief — a revered retired Army colonel — and gave it to a young aide with little experience. Cordray sometimes wouldn’t end a meeting until everyone in the room had weighed in on the matter at hand. Mulvaney, by contrast, began restricting more meetings to senior officials. The move was not atypical of federal agencies. But, employees told me, the effect was that information flowed up the chain of command and rarely back down. The practice also provided protection: Mulvaney’s team faced a torrent of leaks from within the bureau and intense scrutiny from without, as consumer groups demanded Mulvaney and Johnson’s calendars and email correspondence. One group, Allied Progress, filed more than 250 public-records requests during Mulvaney’s tenure.If secrecy served to protect Mulvaney, it also made the C.F.P.B. even less efficient, worsening just the kind of management problems Mulvaney had, in theory, set out to combat. Junior staff members played endless games of telephone as they tried to suss out Mulvaney’s marching orders. “You had to have a meeting after the meeting so that people would know what was decided,” one former employee told me. (Mulvaney and Johnson ultimately compromised, allowing junior staff members to dial into more meetings.) Cordray had allowed enforcement lawyers to send out a civil investigative demand — a kind of noncriminal subpoena — with the approval of a midlevel supervisor. Bureau lawyers told me that the practice allowed them to make narrower, less burdensome requests of lenders, because they had to jump through fewer hoops to ask for more. But Mulvaney viewed the requests as an onerous demand of the lenders who received them — to be used only by bureau lawyers as a last resort. All civil demands had to go through Blankenstein. Over the coming months, the pace of investigations would slow drastically.Mulvaney presented his decisions as part of an earnest effort to fulfill the bureau’s stated mission. He was not trying to undermine the bureau, he argued, but operate it within the plain black letter of Dodd-Frank. “I intend to execute the statutory mandate of the bureau to protect consumers,” he wrote to the staff in one memo. “But we will no longer go beyond that mandate.” To career employees, however, Mulvaney’s crusade against statutory deviation increasingly felt like an ideological publicity stunt, one that came at the expense of the agency’s ostensible mission. Mulvaney commenced a lengthy effort to change the bureau’s name, reasoning that Dodd-Frank had technically created something called the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, not the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. “C.F.P.B. doesn’t exist,” he told bankers at a conference in April. “C.F.P.B. has never existed.” A new working group was convened to execute Mulvaney’s decision, while staff members were prodded to begin using the new name on internal documents. Mulvaney appeared not to consider the vast costs of rewritten paperwork and compliance procedures that a renaming might place on the banks and on other businesses the bureau regulates: $300 million, according to an internal agency analysis later obtained by The Hill. (The name change was abandoned in December.)Nor was Mulvaney reluctant to ignore the statute when it suited him, former employees told me. In a memo that spring, he announced the creation of new bureau offices dedicated to “cost-benefit analysis” and “innovation.” Technically, neither office was prescribed by Dodd-Frank. Almost as an afterthought, Mulvaney effectively dissolved the student-loan ombudsman’s office — a position that was mandated by Dodd-Frank. A Mulvaney spokesman told reporters that the reorganization was a “very modest organizational chart change.” But on the same day, Mulvaney signaled that the bureau would scale back a long-awaited overhaul of student-lending rules. Last August, the ombudsman, a Cordray veteran named Seth Frotman, quit in protest, accusing Mulvaney of ignoring Dodd-Frank’s intent. “It felt like we were in some Ayn Rand debate club,” Frotman told me recently.As Trump appointees elsewhere around the government were learning, it takes a bureaucracy to deconstruct one, and in all the speed and confusion, some of Mulvaney’s own priorities began to suffer. By the spring, months after he announced that the bureau would reconsider Cordray’s ability-to-repay rule, little apparent progress had been made. One problem, according to two former lawyers with the agency, was that Mulvaney and Johnson had more experience interrogating regulatory agencies than running them. Mulvaney had first asked the head of the research, markets and regulations division, a former financial-industry lawyer named David Silberman, if he could simply delay the new payday-loan rule. “They thought they could come in and snap their fingers,” a former lawyer there told me. But the law lays out a lengthy, nuanced procedure for writing or revising federal rules. In a joint memo with the legal division, according to a former staff member, Silberman’s team warned Mulvaney that he had little basis on which to delay Cordray’s rule and that he would most likely lose in court. Mulvaney had good reason to listen to them. As Trump officials at other agencies tried to roll back environmental and other regulations, they were losing in court at an embarrassingly high rate; in many cases, judges slapped down the administration for failing to follow proper rule-making procedures.Next, a team in Silberman’s division was asked to devise arguments in favor of replacing the Cordray rule with a new rule, one that would challenge the underpinnings of Cordray’s regulation. The work was inherently awkward: There were no new studies or industry data that might provide a basis to replace the rule, meaning they would have to attack their own analysis of the payday-loan industry. Most of the original authors were recused from the work, leaving a bare-bones team of about a half-dozen people to finish the job. “You would be arguing against yourself,” a former employee in Silberman’s division told me. “You’d be saying, ‘Everything I argued last year, I’d have to say I was wrong about.’ ” By the spring, Silberman’s division had begun generating timelines and option memos for the bureau’s senior staff members, including proposals to get rid of the rule’s central feature, requiring payday lenders to make sure people can repay their loans.Yet Mulvaney and his deputies provided little feedback or direction on the proposals, according to former Silberman staff members I spoke with. “It was radio silence from them on what direction they wanted to take,” the former staff member told me. The process stalled. Payday lenders, who had expected quick action from Mulvaney, began to panic. Cordray’s ability-to-repay rule would go into full effect in August 2019, in a little more than a year. Mulvaney’s team might come up with a new rule before August, but it might not, and in the meantime payday lenders would have no choice but to reconfigure their businesses — or shut them down — to prepare for the old one. Shaul, the leader of the Community Financial Services Association, told me that he had difficulty getting any sense of where the bureau was headed. “I was not able to get to see Mulvaney,” Shaul told me. “I was hoping we could convince Mulvaney to repeal that rule and craft a new rule.” What they needed was certainty, or at minimum some kind of delay. As months passed without any word, Shaul told me, his members were increasingly set on suing the agency.What happened next underscores some of the absurdity and complexity of turning an agency inside out. In early April, Johnson granted Shaul an introductory meeting at the agency’s headquarters. At the last second, Shaul emailed to say he would be bringing Chris Vergonis, one of the association’s lawyers at Jones Day — and one of the people who would prepare any lawsuit against the agency. His presence was potentially dangerous for Mulvaney’s team; it could raise questions about whether the bureau was improperly coordinating with the industry. According to notes of the meeting, taken by a career bureau employee and obtained by the consumer group Public Citizen, Shaul told Johnson that the association had in fact been preparing to sue the C.F.P.B. to stop Cordray’s rule but now believed that it would be better to work with the bureau to write a new one. With the Cordray rule looming, Shaul stressed, they would need to move quickly.A person familiar with the meeting, who asked for anonymity because of the legal sensitivities involved, told me that Shaul and Vergonis kept pushing for details of the new rule and at one point asked outright what reaction the bureau would have to a lawsuit. According to the staff notes, Johnson replied carefully, as a good lawyer would; it would be inappropriate for him to discuss either the rule or the lawsuit, he told them. Shaul gave me a similar account. “I found them so cautious as to preclude our having any real discussion,” he told me. “We came away from the meeting thinking that we were not going to get many answers.” Four days later, the Community Financial Services Association and another industry group filed suit against the bureau.The C.F.P.B.’s response was atypical of a regulatory agency. In mid-May, the bureau’s lawyers called Vergonis with a proposal: They now wanted to in effect join forces with the industry, by asking a judge to stay both the compliance date of Cordray’s rule and the lawsuit. In a kind of regulatory jujitsu, the bureau would cite Mulvaney’s own decision to reconsider the Cordray rule as an excuse to stop the clock on the August 2019 implementation. There was just too much fog. “The bureau’s decision to initiate rule making to reconsider the payday rule creates inherent uncertainty,” the bureau lawyers and Vergonis’s team wrote in court papers filed later that month. “There is no way to know whether plaintiffs’ members will ultimately need to comply with the payday rule, a modified payday rule or no rule at all.”The bureau still had not explained what kind of rule it planned to propose, much less implement, and in June, a Texas judge rejected the request for a stay of the compliance date. But that October, the C.F.P.B. announced that its new rule would indeed target the ability-to-repay requirement. Not long after, the judge agreed to grant the stay, in effect delaying the core of Cordray’s old rule. Inside the bureau, according to two former employees and an industry lawyer I spoke with, the regulation-writing team lurched into high gear, rushing to deliver what the bureau had promised. The industry had won what it needed most: time.Almost from the moment Mulvaney arrived at the C.F.P.B., rumors ricocheted around Washington that Trump was eyeing him as a future White House chief of staff. Mulvaney denied these rumors with the studied self-deprecation of a man whose star was on the rise. But by the time the White House had settled on a nominee to succeed Mulvaney at the C.F.P.B. — Kathleen Kraninger, his deputy in the budget office — in June, Mulvaney was going into the bureau’s offices only twice a week. C.F.P.B. staff members were just as likely to catch a glimpse of him on television: Mulvaney’s dual agency hats made him an in-demand guest on cable shows, where he capably defended Trump against the day’s mini-scandal. The president reportedly enjoyed watching him butt heads with cable hosts, and despite a packed schedule, Mulvaney found time to polish his skills. In April, after a contentious morning Senate hearing where he made headlines sparring with Warren, he boarded an evening flight to Los Angeles. There, he spent most of two days in media training with Frank Luntz, the famed Republican messaging guru and a friend dating back to Mulvaney’s time in the South Carolina Legislature. (A spokesman for Mulvaney told me that Luntz donated his services.)Mulvaney continued to give speeches at financial-industry conferences, issuing sweeping pronouncements of bureau policy and often taking aim at Warren, a favorite target of his boss. When Warren sent Mulvaney letters demanding information about his conversations with payday lenders or his decision to freeze the bureau’s data-collection efforts, a former employee told me, Mulvaney’s team would take special relish in devising confrontational replies. Mulvaney and his staff members, for their part, viewed their tussles with Warren as a way to deliver the senator an unpleasant taste of her own medicine — an object lesson in the unaccountable bureaucracy that she had birthed and that he was remaking according to a different vision. “The bureau is not going anywhere,” Mulvaney told a conference of mortgage bankers in October. “There is no appetite on Capitol Hill for getting rid of the bureau. We are here.”But within the walls Warren had so carefully constructed, the bricks began to loosen. Over the last year, Mulvaney’s temporary hiring freeze has turned into an indefinite one, slowly shrinking the C.F.P.B.’s staff by attrition. Bureau news releases, once packed with colorful details about abusive lending practices, have been toned down to dry legalese. According to a report by Christopher Peterson, a senior fellow at the Consumer Federation of America, enforcement at the bureau appears to have dwindled radically. In 2018, the bureau announced just 11 lawsuits or settlements, less than a third of the number during Cordray’s last year. In the months since Mulvaney reorganized the Office of Fair Lending, the bureau has not brought a single case alleging illegal discrimination. While Mulvaney pledged data-driven enforcement, his bureau brought only one case against debt collectors, who account for more complaints to the C.F.P.B. than almost any other industry. Where Mulvaney or his successor have allowed cases to go forward, lenders have often settled with lowered fines or none at all. When the bureau settled a three-year prosecution of a group of payday lenders called NDG Enterprise — which found that the group had falsely threatened American customers with arrest and imprisonment if they failed to repay loans — NDG walked away without paying a cent.After Trump announced in December that he was promoting Mulvaney to the top staff job in his administration, senior White House officials told reporters that he was the president’s “original Plan B.” As Trump’s acting White House chief of staff, Mulvaney sits — however temporarily — at Washington’s bureaucratic apex, with influence far beyond the C.F.P.B. In the months leading up to the announcement, Mulvaney sometimes brushed off questions about his ambitions by joking that he was busy enough running two agencies. Now, in a sense, he runs them all.

