Supported byNonfictionWhen you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.By Matt ApuzzoBREAKING AND ENTERING The Extraordinary Story of a Hacker Called Alien By Jeremy N. Smith 292 pp. Houghton Mifflin Harcourt. $28.When the F.B.I. warned the Democratic National Committee that hackers had broken into its system before the 2016 elections, the help desk dismissed it as a potential prank call. And when the Russians used a phony Google alert to try to snatch the email password from Hillary Clinton’s campaign chairman, the I.T. guy incorrectly said the warning was legitimate.In “Breaking and Entering: The Extraordinary Story of a Hacker Called ‘Alien,’” Jeremy N. Smith tells a tale of computer intrigue, but not through the eyes of the black hats whose misdeeds have dominated recent political news. Instead, Smith wants you to meet the people behind the help desk — the tech gurus and security consultants standing between us and digital carnage.With his 1989 best seller “The Cuckoo’s Egg,” the author Clifford Stoll demonstrated that the lowly computer technician can make a wonderful hero. He described tracking Russian spies across networks and solving an espionage mystery of the early internet era. Without such a singular case to crack, however, Smith must rely on the career trajectory of a cybersecurity expert to propel the story.That’s a lot to ask. When someone from your I.T. department sends an email telling you to change your password, does anyone stop and think, “I bet that guy has an interesting story!” Smith addresses this problem head-on, making clear at the onset that we are not talking about just any computer geek. We meet our leather-clad hero — a woman nicknamed Alien who runs a boutique cybersecurity firm — as she swaggers through a Las Vegas hacking conference. And Smith poses the story’s central question: How did she get to be such a badass?Despite the book’s subtitle, however, the answer turns out to be more predictable than extraordinary. Alien studied computer science at M.I.T. and parlayed a connection there into a job at Los Alamos National Laboratory, which launched her into the information security world.Further complicating things, Smith gives every character and company a pseudonym and changes the locations of key events. We are told this is to protect their privacy, but the effect is that Alien, on whom so much is riding, feels distant. This distance is compounded by the fact that “Breaking and Entering” includes long stretches of dialogue and precise details from decades-old events. When you never quite know how much about a character is fictionalized, such precision can make the scenes feel reimagined.Smith’s writing style, though, is crisp as he charts the course of Alien’s life in a series of vignettes, from uncertain undergraduate to successful business owner. The structure works because Smith is a lively storyteller. We are in capable hands as Alien tests corporate security by crafting phishing emails and schmoozing her way into executive suites to steal computers.But the format is also restrictive. Alien came of age during the birth of the modern information security age, and at times I wished we could have stepped back a bit from her story to see the bigger picture. Instead, tethered to Alien, we can see only as far as she can in the moment.For instance, Alien experiences several gut-punch reminders that she is a woman in a male-dominated industry. She is saddled with administrative tasks. A male peer introduces her as a “junior consultant.” And a roomful of men eye her with curiosity at a conference. These moments cry out for a pause, some context, a bit of reflection on the security industry in the #MeToo moment. But instead we are whisked off to the next vignette.The story offers just enough technological details to establish its bona fides without slowing its pace. It is a difficult balance. Alien’s social-engineering techniques have been detailed in books by and about the hacker Kevin Mitnick and elsewhere, and will come as no surprise to tech-savvy or security-conscious readers. More casual readers will get an introduction to that world, but not a guide to help them understand it.Which is a shame, since the real Alien — she is easily identifiable if one is so inclined — has a well-earned reputation as an expert in her field. Her work is taught at universities, bar associations and the world’s top conferences. She is, as Smith set out to show, a security badass. Yet we hear very little from her in the present. The focus on how she got there is interesting, and at times quite fun, but it comes at the expense of the wisdom she acquired on the journey.If there’s one lesson to be learned from Alien’s story, it is this: As Russian hackers challenge democracies and criminal attacks turn our personal data into commodities, we cannot turn to technology to save us. Security is only as strong as the employee who tapes his passwords to his cubicle, the overworked guard at the front desk and, yes, the person on the other end of the line when you call the help desk.Matt Apuzzo, an international investigative correspondent for The Times, is the co-author of “Enemies Within: Inside the NYPD’s Secret Spying Unit and Bin Laden’s Final Plot Against America.”

Supported byBy Matthew GoldsteinCompanies use the Securities and Exchange Commission’s corporate filing system to share market-moving news with investors and the public. Getting an early peek at those filings would be very helpful to a thief.That was the motivation for two computer hackers who tried to penetrate the system, known as Edgar, according to an indictment unsealed on Tuesday by federal prosecutors in New Jersey.The authorities charged two men, both of whom are believed to be Ukrainian nationals, in a scheme to hack into the commission’s database and steal secret information that they could either trade on or sell to others.Prosecutors said that by hacking into the Edgar system, the men, Artem Radchenko and Oleksandr Ieremenko, had stolen “annual, quarterly and current reports of publicly traded companies before the reports were disseminated to the investing public.”The scheme, prosecutors said, took place from roughly February 2016 to March 2017. Federal authorities had previously charged Mr. Ieremenko in 2015 with hacking into the databases of business newswire companies to steal corporate news releases in order to make profitable trades.A spokesman for Craig Carpenito, the United States attorney for New Jersey, said that neither Mr. Radchenko nor Mr. Ieremenko was in federal custody.The S.E.C., which has been operating with a skeleton staff because of the partial government shutdown, said in a related civil complaint that the scheme had generated about $4.1 million in illegal profits.In addition to Mr. Ieremenko, six individuals, most of whom have addresses in Russia or Ukraine, and two entities were also named as defendants.One of the defendants, David Kwon, who is charged with securities fraud, is believed to live in Los Angeles, according to the complaint. Securities regulators contend that Mr. Kwon, 44, traded at least 18 times on information stolen from Edgar. He did not respond to a request for comment.Another defendant listed in the commission’s complaint, Sungjin Cho, who lives in Los Angeles, is accused of making at least 66 trades. Sean Prosser, a lawyer for Mr. Cho, declined to comment on the charges.To gain access to the system, prosecutors said, the hackers sent so-called phishing emails to commission employees and then infected some of the agency’s computers with malware.The scheme targeted “test filings” that companies can submit to Edgar before actual filings that are intended to be made public. Such test filings often contain information similar to that in the actual filings.The criminal indictment said the defendants had stolen test filings submitted by at least five companies and then traded on the information or sold it to unnamed co-conspirators. Edgar has been compromised before. In 2015, the commission charged a Bulgarian man with creating a company in order to get an access code to the system. He then submitted bogus takeover bids for two companies, Avon Products and Rocky Mountain Chocolate Factory, in an effort to manipulate their stock prices.

Supported byBy Melissa EddyBERLIN — A 20-year-old German student took advantage of passwords as weak as “Iloveyou” and “1234” to hack into online accounts of hundreds of lawmakers and personalities whose political stances he disliked, officials revealed Tuesday, shaking Berlin’s political establishment and raising questions about data security in Europe’s leading economy.Working from his computer in his parents’ home, the young man used relatively simple techniques to hack into successive accounts, the authorities said. There, he stole the users’ personal information and published it through Twitter over the course of December.But it was not until late on Jan. 3 that an employee in the office of Andrea Nahles, leader of the center-left Social Democratic Party, finally noticed the hack and informed security officials, who then scrambled to track the source of the leaks.At a time when Western officials are increasingly wary of digital interference in institutions and elections, and just months before European elections, the revelation of a widespread data breach that took a month to detect has prompted harsh assessments of the preparedness of a nation that for decades has prided itself on its technological prowess. The news that a single person, using unsophisticated methods, was responsible, only compounded those concerns.On Tuesday, Chancellor Angela Merkel’s interior minister, Horst Seehofer, and senior security officials pushed back against accusations they had been too slow to respond or had failed in their mission to keep Germans safe online. They insisted they had organized a response within minutes of learning of the hack and said they had informed lawmakers about the risk of security breaches after a 2015 hack on the government network.“This incident is painful, but our reaction shows the security of the German people is ensured around the clock, also in the cybersphere,” Mr. Seehofer told reporters.Holger Münch, the head of Germany’s federal police, said the young man, whose identity was not released because he was being treated as a juvenile, had admitted during questioning to stealing the personal data of an array of public figures. Most of them are politicians, from all of Germany’s leading political parties — save for the far-right Alternative for Germany, or AfD.“Based on our assessment so far, we believe he acted alone,” Mr. Münch told reporters, adding that so far, investigators had no evidence that the hacker had any affiliation with a political party or other groups. “He acted out of a general discontent with politicians, or journalists, or public figures, who he wanted to expose. That was his motive.”The man was detained on Sunday on suspicion of spying and illegally publishing personal information, crimes that carry a sentence of up to three years each. But because he has no previous criminal record and is being treated as a juvenile, it is likely that he would receive a much lighter sentence.He has since been released on grounds there was not sufficient reason to hold him in detention pending the outcome of the investigation, said Georg Ungefuk, a prosecutor with the Frankfurt-based office responsible for cybercrimes, which is carrying out the investigation.Germany’s main government network was breached by hackers in 2015, and the authorities worried that information obtained then would be used against politicians leading up to the 2017 election. Those fears were largely unfounded, but Mr. Seehofer, the interior minister, warned that last month’s breach should be a warning to everyone, especially ahead of the European parliamentary election in May.“We must be prepared that outside actors may want to influence this election and take every precaution to prevent this and do what we can to recognize such an action as early as possible,” he said. “It could be a very different perpetrator.”Despite the shock that a single person was able to agitate and alarm the country’s political establishment, Mr. Münch pointed out that many young people had committed crimes from computers in their bedrooms, citing examples of teens who had been caught selling weapons or drugs over the “dark web,” areas of the internet hidden from the view of most users.Dirk Engling, spokesman for the Chaos Computer Club, a German collective of hackers, said the hack itself wasn’t technically difficult, but required a great deal of patience in order to learn the necessary passwords.He listed previous examples in Germany of such hacks where an individual’s private information was stolen for the purposes of publishing online, known in the tech world as “doxxing,” but pointed out that they had largely gone ignored by policymakers.“Now that they have been snatched from their online accounts, suddenly it seems to have changed some minds,” Mr. Engling said.The authorities said that on learning of the breaches on Jan. 3, they immediately began coordinating efforts to find the source and request that Twitter take down the offending account, which happened the following morning.The Twitter account announced in November that the leaks were coming, and on Dec. 1 it began posting the data, but apparently few people noticed until weeks later. The authorities said they were still evaluating hard drives and personal papers confiscated in a raid on the man’s home.Of the nearly 1,000 people whose information was leaked, 949 were politicians, roughly half of them from the governing Christian Democratic Union, Mr. Münch said. While some of the information published was already public, there were 116 cases of personal documents that were illegally made public, he said.Opposition lawmakers and members of Ms. Nahles’ S.P.D., which governs in a coalition with the Christian Democrats, have criticized the country’s cybersecurity office and Mr. Seehofer for failing to discover the incursion earlier. The hacker released the information through links and passwords posted on Twitter in the form of an Advent calendar, where a window is opened each day leading up to Christmas, revealing a treat.Early postings involved the personal information of rappers, journalists and YouTube video bloggers, but from Dec. 20, information on members of five of the six political parties with seats in the German Parliament was released. It was not clear why AfD politicians were spared.The attack raised new questions about whether the government had structures in place to adequately help users safeguard their computers and sensitive personal information.Katarina Barley, the justice minister, said her office was looking into whether it made sense to further tighten the country’s already strict privacy laws, or those requiring software providers and companies running internet platforms to respond more swiftly to requests for data to be taken down.“We are examining whether tightening the laws would make sense or be necessary,” Ms. Barley said. She and Mr. Seehofer encouraged Germans to use strong passwords, avoid using the same password for multiple accounts and two-step verification to access to their online accounts as their best.“It can happen anywhere,” said Mr. Engling said of hacks on personal information. “It’s easy to always blame the Chinese and Russia, but using private email for business or political matters makes you susceptible.”Follow Melissa Eddy on Twitter: @meddynyt.Adam Satariano contributed reporting from London.

Supported byBy Nicole PerlrothSAN FRANCISCO — The Democratic National Committee believes it was targeted in a hacking attempt by a Russian group in the weeks after the midterm elections last year, according to court documents filed late Thursday.On Nov. 14, the documents say, dozens of D.N.C. email addresses were on the receiving end of a so-called spearphishing campaign by one of two Russian organizations believed to be responsible for hacking into the committee’s computers during the 2016 presidential race. There is no evidence that the most recent attack was successful.The documents, filed in federal court in New York, were part of an amended complaint in a lawsuit filed in April that claimed the committee was the victim of a conspiracy by Russian intelligence agents, President Trump’s 2016 campaign and WikiLeaks to damage Hillary Clinton’s presidential run.The new court filings say the time stamps and contents of the spearphishing emails received in November were consistent with separate cyberattacks around the same time tied to the Russian hacking group known as Cozy Bear, one of the two Russian groups suspected of breaching D.N.C. computers in 2016.Security researchers believe the hacking attempt against the D.N.C. in November was part of a broader campaign that used decoy emails that appeared to come from the State Department.That campaign had more than a dozen targets, including government agencies, think tanks, law enforcement officials, journalists, military personnel, defense contractors, pharmaceutical companies and transportation officials, according to a report by the cybersecurity firm FireEye. Researchers believe the goal was to ferret out American foreign policy, particularly related to Africa; Democratic policy positions; and the platforms of 2020 Democratic presidential hopefuls.FireEye said the attempted hacking of the D.N.C. in November resembled other recent attacks attributed to Cozy Bear, including in its “deliberate reuse” of old phishing tactics and reliance on a similar list of victims. But there were a few new wrinkles, including new decoy email addresses and different obfuscation techniques.The hackers sent some targets of the broader campaign three phishing emails at most. In other instances, they were more aggressive, sending as many as 136 emails to a single organization. In some cases, the malware-laced emails were successful. And once they gained access to a computer network, it was only a matter of hours before they were deploying stealthier hacking tools.The attackers in November compromised a hospital email server to launch their phishing emails, a common tactic of the Cozy Bear group, said Nick Carr, a senior manager at FireEye.Cozy Bear hackers are skilled at rummaging through a network without drawing attention, said Matthew Dunwoody, a FireEye security researcher. Once in, they often swap out their phishing tools for malware that can be hard to detect, he said.FireEye said that although Cozy Bear was the likeliest culprit, the firm could not firmly establish who was responsible for the 2018 campaign against the D.N.C. and other targets. CrowdStrike, another cybersecurity firm, also noted an uptick in hacking activity in November, but it could not say definitively that Cozy Bear was to blame.Cozy Bear, also known by security firms as APT 29 or the Dukes, was one of two Russian groups involved in the 2016 hacking of the D.N.C. It has not attracted the same scrutiny as the other group, Fancy Bear, or APT 28, which has been linked to a string of cyberattacks against the D.N.C., the International Olympic Committee and other international organizations.Cozy Bear has been active since 2016, security researchers say, and has been linked to a coordinated wave of hacking attacks on Democratic Party officials.The D.N.C. says in the amended complaint that the November campaign was consistent with a continuing push by Russian hackers to target Democratic candidates and party leaders. In 2017, Russian hackers are believed to have attempted a hack of the computer network of former Senator Claire McCaskill of Missouri and the networks of at least two other candidates in the midterm elections.Mr. Trump has long denied any collusion with Russia, and in December several defendants named in the D.N.C.’s lawsuit argued that it should be dismissed because the committee was using it to try to “explain away” the Democratic “candidate’s defeat in the 2016 presidential campaign.”On Friday, Geoffrey A. Graber, a D.N.C. lawyer, said the committee expected defendants named in the case to file another motion for dismissal soon.The Russian government has consistently denied hacking the D.N.C. In a “statement of immunity” from Russia’s Ministry of Justice, Russian authorities argued that even if it were responsible for the hacking, such a “sovereign act” would be considered a “military action” protected by a 1976 law that offers some immunity from lawsuits regarding foreign governments’ actions in the United States.Follow Nicole Perlroth on Twitter: @nicoleperlroth.Sheera Frenkel contributed reporting.

Supported byBy Melissa EddyBERLIN — After hackers, later determined to be working for Russia, broke into Parliament’s main computer network three years ago, the government vowed to fortify its cybersecurity. The authorities schooled lawmakers about changing passwords, using two-step identification and other measures to protect online data.But on Friday, nearly 1,000 lawmakers and other prominent Germans, including rappers, journalists and internet personalities, awoke to find links to their street and email addresses, private chats from social media, bank account details and pictures of their children published on Twitter, in another major breach aimed at the country’s political establishment.All those attacked had a history of criticizing the far right, whose politicians appeared to be spared, raising suspicion that the hacker or hackers were sympathetic to their agenda, though the authorities said they had no indication yet who was behind the attack.The breach spread a fresh round of alarm in Germany, a country where citizens especially covet their privacy, and once again raised the disconcerting question of whether even the most vigilant and sophisticated individuals and governments can safeguard their computers and the valuable personal, financial and other sensitive information that resides there.Even beyond Germany, the attack fit into a building pattern of breaches with the seeming aim of shaking confidence in the political establishment or undermining important players in it.The weaponization of hacked information has become an increasingly common theme in politics, said Jonas Kaiser, a Harvard University expert who studies online misinformation.“A lot of leaks and hacking campaigns have become a more normal part of the political discourse,” he said.The most notable examples were emails from the Democratic National Committee that were stolen during the 2016 election in the United States and have become part of the investigation into whether Russia sought to tilt the vote in President Trump’s favor. On the eve of voting in France’s 2017 elections, hackers similarly made a public dump of what was presumed to be a mix of real and fake emails from the campaign of Emmanuel Macron, now the president.This time, the leaks went on for more than a month as the hackers teased and dribbled out their bounty. It was only late Thursday, when the Twitter account of a popular German YouTuber, Simon Unge, who has some two million followers, was hijacked that the extent of the attacks finally came into fuller light.Mr. Kaiser said the authorities would try to determine whether the attack was perpetrated by a state-backed group. The release of personal information by an individual or small group would generate a different response than one done by a government, he said.Cybersecurity experts said the hacker or hackers appeared to have taken considerable effort to collect and spread the looted information across different servers in an attempt to make tracing them and taking down the data more difficult.Angela Merkel’s government vowed a thorough investigation. “The German government takes this incident very seriously,” said Martina Fietz, a spokeswoman for the chancellor.As the country’s main cybersecurity defense team called a crisis meeting to coordinate with domestic and foreign intelligence agencies early Friday, Twitter took down the accounts used by a hacker calling himself GOd that had been broadcasting links to the information since early last month.The hacker released the information through links published on Twitter in the form of an Advent calendar, where a window is opened every day leading up to Christmas, revealing a picture or treat.“The first window is for a very special beloved moderator who everyone knows,” read the entry for Dec. 1, which included links to private information from the comedian Jan Böhmermann, who several months ago had started an initiative to discredit a group of far-right internet trolls.Starting on Dec. 20, Germany’s established political parties appeared, beginning with the Free Democrats and followed by the Left, the Greens and Social Democrats.Dec. 24 — the final day in the calendar — was reserved for the conservative Christian Democrats and Christian Social Union. The published link led to servers hosting lists of personal information ranging from internal party documents to screen shots of private chat exchanges to images of a personal ID card, front and back.Only the main opposition force in Parliament, the far-right Alternative for Germany, or AfD, was excluded. Stephan Brandner, a member of Parliament with the party responsible for justice affairs, condemned the hack. “Protection of private data goes for everyone, including politicians, regardless of which party they belong to,” he said.Germans prize personal privacy — a legacy of abuses by the Nazi- and Communist-era secret police — and the country has long had some of the world’s strictest laws protecting personal information. Germany was the first country to force Google to allow individuals to blur images of their homes on its Street View mapping service, following outrage over the amount of data the company was collecting.But German defenses have not caught up to German fears, rendering the country exceedingly vulnerable to attacks.Although the Twitter accounts used for disseminating the information were taken down early Friday, several hours later, many of the servers hosting the information remained accessible.Lukasz Olejnik, an independent cybersecurity and privacy adviser, said the attack showed deliberate planning. Dispersing the content among servers across the internet made it more likely the information would remain accessible even after Twitter shut down the account that initially published the links, he said.“The attacker’s intent is not clear at this moment but it is clear that a considerable effort was put in,” said Mr. Olejnik, who is also a research associate at the Center for Technology and Global Affairs at Oxford University. “It was work intensive.”Germany’s cybersecurity office said it was investigating whether the data was harvested in a central attack, a series of separate ones originating from different services, or in private communications.“At this time, there is no indication that the government network was breached,” the office, known by its German initials B.S.I., said in a statement.Beyond Germany, the hacking adds to concerns about the security of European parliamentary elections in May, which many officials fear are vulnerable to digital interference and disinformation campaigns by hackers or state-backed groups. Last month, European Union officials announced a plan to better coordinate responses to false messages around the elections.Leading members of the Greens and the Social Democrats said they filed criminal charges against unknown individuals for illegally publishing their personal data. A spokesman for the Left party confirmed that the information of some of its members had been exposed, including that of Dietmar Bartsch, the leader of its caucus in the lower house of Parliament.Mr. Böhmermann, the first person targeted in the leak, tried several months ago to organize opposition to the far-right group Reconquista Germanica, which spreads disinformation and harasses, provokes and belittles opponents.The data, which included Mr. Böhmermann’s phone numbers, personal chats and photographs of his two young sons, was advertised as, “Nice things that you can have fun with.”Germany’s main government network was breached by hackers in 2015, and the authorities worried that information obtained then would be used against politicians leading up to the 2017 election. Those fears were largely unfounded.Hackers appeared to have again penetrated the German government’s main data network last March — a system that was supposed to be particularly secure and is used by the chancellor’s office, ministries and Parliament.Luca Hammer, an independent German social media analyst who studies activity on Twitter, said that because no right-wing troll chat groups had picked up the leak, the hacker may have been a single individual.“They had to get into a popular Twitter account to get noticed,” he said over Twitter. “Therefore I assume they acted alone. But I don’t know.”The attack prompted warnings in German media about the need for greater vigilance by the government and of how individuals can better protect themselves online.A commentary in Süddeutsche Zeitung drew a parallel between the cyberattack and terrorism. “Even if in this case nobody has been injured or killed,” the aim of the hack was to trigger “a diffuse fear” in German society at large.“The question of whether public spaces are safe for the individual turns out to be the same for Facebook and the Outlook mailbox as it is for soccer stadiums and the Oktoberfest,” the paper wrote.Adam Satariano contributed reporting from London.Follow Melissa Eddy on Twitter: @meddynyt.

Supported byBy David E. SangerWASHINGTON — Marriott International said on Friday that the biggest hacking of personal information in history was not quite as big as first feared, but for the first time conceded that its Starwood hotel unit did not encrypt the passport numbers for roughly five million guests. Those passport numbers were lost in an attack that many outside experts believe was carried out by Chinese intelligence agencies.When the attack was first reported by Marriott at the end of November, it said that information on upward of 500 million guests may have been stolen, all from the reservations database of Starwood, a major hotel chain Marriot had acquired. But at the time, the company said that the figure was a worst-case scenario because it included millions of duplicate records.On Friday the firm said that teams of forensic and data analysts had identified “approximately 383 million records as the upper limit” for the total number of guest reservations records lost, though the company still says it has no idea who carried out the attack, and it suggested the figure would decline over time as more duplicate records are identified. The revised figure is still the largest loss in history, greater than the attack on Equifax, the consumer credit-reporting agency, which lost the driver’s license and Social Security numbers of roughly 145.5 million Americans in 2017, leading to the ouster of its chief executive and a huge loss of confidence in the firm.What made the Starwood attack different was the presence of passport numbers, which could make it far easier for an intelligence service to track people who cross borders. That is particularly important in this case: In December, The New York Times reported that the attack was part of a Chinese intelligence gathering effort that, reaching back to 2014, also hacked American health insurers and the Office of Personnel Management, which keeps security clearance files on millions of Americans.Taken together, the attack appeared to be part of a broader effort by China’s Ministry of State Security to compile a huge database of Americans and others with sensitive government or industry positions — including where they worked, the names of their colleagues, foreign contacts and friends, and where they travel.“Big data is the new wave for counterintelligence,” James A. Lewis, a cybersecurity expert who runs the technology policy program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, said last month.One top official of the Chinese Ministry of State Security was arrested in Belgium late last year and extradited to the United States on charges of playing a central role in the hacking of American defense-related firms, and others were identified in a Justice Department indictment in December. But those cases were unrelated to the Marriott attack, which the F.B.I. is still investigating.China has denied any knowledge of the Marriott attack. In December, Geng Shuang, a spokesman for its Ministry of Foreign Affairs, said, “China firmly opposes all forms of cyberattack and cracks down on it in accordance with the law.”“If offered evidence, the relevant Chinese departments will carry out investigations according to the law,” the spokesman added.The Marriott investigation has revealed a new vulnerability in hotel systems: What happens to passport data when a customer makes a reservation or checks into a hotel, usually abroad, and hands over a passport to the desk clerk. Marriott said for the first time that 5.25 million passport numbers were kept in the Starwood system in plain, unencrypted data files — meaning they were easily read by anyone inside the reservation system. An additional 20.3 million passport numbers were kept in encrypted files, which would require a master encryption key to read. It is unclear how many of those involved American passports, and how many come from other countries.“There is no evidence that the unauthorized third party accessed the master encryption key needed to decrypt the encrypted passport numbers,” Marriott said in a statement.It was not immediately clear why some numbers were encrypted and others were not — other than that hotels in each country, and sometimes each property, had different protocols for handling the passport information. Intelligence experts note that American intelligence agencies often seek the passport numbers of foreigners they are tracking outside the United States, which may explain why the United States government has not insisted on stronger encryption of passport data worldwide.Asked how Marriott was handling the information now that it has merged Starwood’s data into the Marriott reservations system — a merger that was just completed at the end of 2018 — Connie Kim, a company spokeswoman, said: “We are looking into our ability to move to universal encryption of passport numbers and will be working with our systems vendors to better understand their capabilities, as well as reviewing applicable national and local regulations.”The State Department issued a statement last month telling passport holders not to panic, because the number alone would not enable someone to create a fake passport. Marriott has said it would pay for a new passport for anyone whose passport information, hacked from their systems, was found to be involved in a fraud. But that was something of a corporate sleight of hand, since it provided no coverage for guests who wanted a new passport simply because their data had been taken by foreign spies.So far the company has ducked addressing that issue by saying it has no evidence about who the attackers were, and the United States has not formally accused China in the case. But private cyberintelligence groups that have looked at the breach have seen strong parallels with the other, Chinese-related attacks underway at the time. The company’s president and chief executive, Arne Sorenson, has not answered questions about the hacking in public, and Marriott said he was traveling and declined a request from The Times to talk about hacking.The company also said that about 8.6 million credit and debit cards were “involved” in the incident, but those are all encrypted — and all but 354,000 cards had expired by September 2018, when the hacking, which went on for years, was discovered.So far, there are no known cases in which stolen passport or credit card information was found in fraudulent transactions. But to cyberattack investigators, that is just another sign that the hacking was conducted by intelligence agencies, not criminals. The agencies would want to use the data for their own purposes — building databases and tracking government or industrial surveillance targets — rather than exploiting the data for economic profit.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.

Supported byBy Tariq PanjaOver the past four years, some of the most damning secrets of the professional soccer industry have been exposed by a deluge of leaks that have shined an unflattering light on some of the sport’s most popular clubs, players and coaches.Last week the man behind the leaks, a 30-year-old Portuguese citizen named Rui Pinto, was arrested in Budapest, Hungary. He faces extradition to his home country on the charges, which include an extortion attempt in 2015 on a secretive investment fund that had bet millions of dollars in the player transfer market.For the moment, though, Pinto’s fate depends on a far narrower matter: whether his team of lawyers can successfully argue that he is a whistle-blower under Hungarian law — a defendant whose actions to expose malpractice and, potentially, a raft of financial and other crimes in soccer outweigh any offenses he might have committed.In the view of the Portuguese authorities, Pinto is guilty of extortion and violation of secrecy in relation to his contact with the investment fund, Doyen Sports. They and Doyen have accused him of threatening to publish internal company documents — revealing transfer fees and secret payments — unless the fund paid him to keep the documents private.Those documents, which offered a window into both Doyen’s business model and its bank accounts, were later published on the website known as Football Leaks. The revelations, along with a number of player contracts posted on the site, exposed a murky world of soccer finance that was at best unsavory and at worst in violation of national and international soccer regulations.Ultimately, Pinto turned over about 70 million documents and 3.4 terabytes of information to a German newsmagazine, Der Spiegel, which shared documents with a select group of news media outlets who published reports on their contents.Now that Pinto has been arrested on a Portuguese warrant, his case represents a high-profile test of a Hungarian law passed in 2014 that affords special protection to whistle-blowers. His lawyers plan to argue that the leads his leaked documents provided to a variety of European law enforcement organizations outweigh Pinto’s actions.“Based on the leaks, there have been some extremely important criminal investigations opened with prosecutions in various countries,” said William Bourdon, Pinto’s lawyer, who previously has represented the national-security whistle-blower Edward Snowden. “Without Pinto, this wouldn’t have been possible.”Those investigations include several tax cases in Spain, where top soccer stars, including Cristiano Ronaldo, have been prosecuted for tax evasion after Football Leaks revealed details of the complicated structures through which they received millions of dollars in salaries and image rights. (Pinto’s lawyers said that he also has been in contact with French financial crimes prosecutors since late 2016.)More recently, Football Leaks disclosures have targeted the FIFA president, Gianni Infantino, and the ways some top clubs might have circumvented the sport’s financial regulations. The revelations also led to the reopening of a sexual assault case against Ronaldo.Unlike in most whistle-blower cases, however, Pinto has no official connection with the soccer industry — no access to clubs’ books or a players’ contracts — beyond being a fan of the game.“For me, it doesn’t make a difference considering what is the basis of whistle-blower protection: the intensity of the contribution to the public interest,” Bourdon said. “This is the key point.”Bourdon said Pinto already had agreed to assist the authorities in Switzerland, and that Germany’s tax agency was seeking access to his information, too. But it is the decision of a Hungarian judge that matters most to him at the moment, since that will determine whether or not he avoids extradition to Portugal.“We expect the Hungarian judge to be sensitive to the paradoxical situation,” Bourdon said, “that on one hand he’s being prosecuted in Portugal, while on the other he has been providing assistance to prosecutors in other countries.”Bourdon said that he sees little difference between Pinto and one of his former clients, Hervé Falciani, who leaked account details of clients of the British bank HSBC while he worked in Geneva. Falciani’s disclosures, which shook the secretive world of Swiss banking, revealed accounts containing more than $100 billion, and led to the bank’s agreeing to pay 300 million euros (about $340 million) to French authorities to settle a tax-evasion investigation.Spain’s high court last September rejected an extradition request for Falciani — once labeled the Edward Snowden of banking — from Switzerland.In addition to Pinto’s extradition, the Portuguese police have demanded the entirety of the computer equipment seized from him in Hungary. Bourdon called that an overreach because their case is limited to the suspected 2015 extortion attempt.Bourdon acknowledged that Pinto had attempted to make contact with Doyen once he had the company’s documents, but he said the extortion charges were not valid because Pinto ultimately “didn’t follow through” with an operation to secure a payment.Bourdon described the charges as “a tool to criminalize him, to target him as an offender and not a whistle-blower.”Little is known about Pinto. A Der Spiegel reporter, Rafael Buschman, is the only journalist known to have contact with an individual connected with Football Leaks. Buschman has written a series of breathless accounts and a book detailing his relationship with a man he referred to as “John.” Der Spiegel has not confirmed Pinto is its source.But a September report by the Portuguese magazine Sabado reported Pinto was the “computer genius” behind Football Leaks. Shortly after its article was published, a message was posted on Football Leaks’ Facebook page that appeared to taunt Portuguese authorities, signing off with “#catchmeifyoucan.”In a video posted to websites including YouTube after a court appearance in Budapest last week, Pinto, dressed in a brown leather jacket and jeans, appeared relaxed as he sat on a wooden bench outside the courtroom with his hands cuffed in front of him. Pinto’s lawyers managed to secure house arrest for him until the judge delivers a verdict.“Jurisprudence and regulations say there is a question of proportionality between the seriousness of the offense and the importance to public interest,” Bourdon said. “You could violate the law, could be hacking, or stealing, and if the contribution is tremendous then it’s not a crime.“It will be a historic decision for a Hungarian judge to make.”

Supported byBy Scott ShaneA group of transparency advocates on Friday posted a mammoth collection of hacked and leaked documents from inside Russia, a release widely viewed as a sort of symbolic counterstrike against Russia’s dissemination of hacked emails to influence the American presidential election in 2016.Most of the material, which sheds light on Russia’s war in Ukraine as well as ties between the Kremlin and the Russian Orthodox Church, the business dealings of oligarchs and much more, had been released in Russia, Ukraine and elsewhere, sometimes on obscure websites. There were no immediate reports of new bombshells from the collection.But the sheer volume of the material — 175 gigabytes — and the technical challenges of searching it meant that its full impact may not be felt for some time. The volume is many times greater than the total known material stolen by Russian military intelligence from the Democratic National Committee and Hillary Clinton’s presidential campaign nearly three years ago.The core files from the new collection, called “The Dark Side of the Kremlin,” included “hundreds of thousands of messages and files from Russian politicians, journalists, oligarchs, religious figures, and nationalists/terrorists in Ukraine,” said the group that posted it, Distributed Denial of Secrets, or DDoSecrets. The name is a play on the term for a common cyberattack known as a distributed denial of service.The documents include a voluminous archive of material hacked from Russia’s Ministry of Internal Affairs that WikiLeaks had declined to publish in 2016, telling Foreign Policy magazine the next year that it “rejects all submissions that it cannot verify” or that it finds “insignificant.”Also posted are a large collection of Russian emails and other material obtained by Shaltai Boltai, a Russian hacking group; documents from the Russian arms exporting agency Rosoboronexport; and material obtained in what DDoSecrets called a “hacking spree” against Russian targets accused of falsifying the story of the downing in Ukraine of a passenger plane, Malaysia Airlines Flight 17, in 2014.The Russian documents were posted simultaneously on the DDoSecrets website and on the Internet Archive.Emma Best, a journalist and transparency advocate in Boston who helped organize Distributed Denial of Secrets late last year, said the Russian collection was not posted explicitly as payback for Russia’s 2016 hacks and leaks, though she acknowledged “it does add some appreciable irony.”“Our motive is to collect and make available materials for a subject that was very underexplored — Russian power circles, how they interconnect, their influence operations,” Ms. Best said. “People have a cursory understanding of that, but outside of a few experts it hasn’t been looked at in detail and contextualized.”Ms. Best, 32, who has published at the investigative site MuckRock and elsewhere, noted that the Distributed Denial of Secrets site already hosts thousands of leaked documents from dozens of countries, the largest number from the United States.The new site operates roughly on the model pioneered by WikiLeaks — inviting hackers and whistle-blowers to send confidential documents for posting. But Ms. Best has been quite critical of that site and its founder, Julian Assange, who played a central role in distributing the Democrats’ emails that Russians hacked in 2016. Distributed Denial of Secrets has posted a large archive of internal documents from WikiLeaks itself.“Personally, I am disappointed by what I see as dishonest and egotistic behavior from Julian Assange and WikiLeaks,” Ms. Best said. But she added that she had made the Russian document collection available to WikiLeaks ahead of its public release on Friday, and had posted material favorable to Mr. Assange leaked from the Ecuadorean Embassy in London, where he has lived for more than six years to avoid arrest.Russian and Eastern European hackers have for many years been among the world’s most active, many operating, initially, from a criminal underground in search of profit. But over the last decade, Russian intelligence agencies have become adept at using cyberintrusions to pilfer documents abroad as part of intelligence gathering and to leak for political purposes.While the 2016 American election attack, carried out by Russian military intelligence hackers from the agency known as the G.R.U., has gotten the most attention, similar hack-and-leak operations have been carried out on a daily or weekly basis for years in Eastern Europe. Ukrainian hackers have worked aggressively to expose Russian covert activities in Crimea and the regions of eastern Ukraine controlled by separatist rebels.Business tycoons have used hackers to go after rivals. Activists have sought to expose wrongdoing by the police and security agencies. The resulting archives of emails and inside documents have been posted all over the web, and the new collection seeks to gather it all in one place.Ms. Best said Distributed Denial of Secrets is operated by fewer than 20 people who live in multiple countries, most preferring to remain anonymous. She said the Russian project began last year when she connected with a journalist looking for a collection of emails hacked by Shaltai Boltai, the Russian group whose name means Humpty Dumpty.She said she was able to find those emails and then “we decided to flesh out our Russian section a little bit.” They put the word out that they were looking for additional hacked or leaked Russian documents to host and began to get submissions.“At some point we thought we were ready to go,” she said. “Then more rolled in.”Ms. Best said the group has not heard from Russian government officials about their project — not directly, at least. About two weeks ago, she said, after they had collected the Russian material but not yet posted it publicly, someone tried to erase one of the group’s servers.“We try not to draw solid conclusions, but we are obviously aware of the possibilities” as to who might have tried to disrupt their project, she said. The group accelerated the public posting by several weeks and have made sure to cache copies of the entire archive, in multiple places, to prevent its destruction, she said.Follow Scott Shane on Twitter: @ScottShaneNYT.

Supported byBy Nicole PerlrothSAN FRANCISCO — On Jan. 19, Grant Thompson, a 14-year-old in Arizona, made an unexpected discovery: Using FaceTime, Apple’s video chatting software, he could eavesdrop on his friend’s phone before his friend had even answered the call.His mother, Michele Thompson, sent a video of the hack to Apple the next day, warning the company of a “major security flaw” that exposed millions of iPhone users to eavesdropping. When she didn’t hear from Apple Support, she exhausted every other avenue she could, including emailing and faxing Apple’s security team, and posting to Twitter and Facebook. On Friday, Apple’s product security team encouraged Ms. Thompson, a lawyer, to set up a developer account to send a formal bug report.But it wasn’t until Monday, more than a week after Ms. Thompson first notified Apple of the problem, that Apple raced to disable Group FaceTime and said it was working on a fix. The company reacted after a separate developer reported the FaceTime flaw and it was written about on 9to5mac.com, a news site for Apple fans, in an article that went viral.The bug, and Apple’s slow response to patching it, have renewed concerns about the company’s commitment to security, even though it regularly advertises its bug reward program and boasts about the safety of its products. Hours before Apple’s statement addressing the bug Monday, Tim Cook, the company’s chief executive, tweeted that “we all must insist on action and reform for vital privacy protections.”The FaceTime problem has already been branded “FacePalm” by security researchers, who say Apple’s security team should have known better. Rarely is there a software flaw that grants such high-level remote access and is so easy to manipulate: By adding a second person to a group FaceTime call, you can capture the audio and video of the first person called before that person answers the phone, or even if the person never answers.“If these kinds of bugs are slipping through,” said Patrick Wardle, the co-founder of Digita Security, which focuses on Apple-related security, “you have to wonder if there are other problematic bugs that other hackers are exploiting that should have been caught.”[Read how to disable FaceTime to avoid the eavesdropping bug.]On Monday, Apple said it was aware of the issue and had “identified a fix that will be released in a software update later this week.”But the company has not addressed how the flaw passed through quality assurance, why it was so slow to respond to Ms. Thompson’s urgent warnings, or whether it intends to reward the teenager whose mother raced to alert the company to the bug in the first place.A bug this easy to exploit is every company’s worst security nightmare and every spy agency, cybercriminal and stalker’s dream. In emails to Apple’s product security team, Ms. Thompson noted that she and her son were just everyday citizens who believed they had uncovered a flaw that could undermine national security.“My fear is that this flaw could be used for nefarious purposes,” she wrote in a letter provided to The New York Times. “Although this certainly raises privacy and security issues for private individuals, there is the potential that this could impact national security if, for example, government members were to fall victim to this eavesdropping flaw.”Unknown to Ms. Thompson, there is a healthy market for bugs and the code to weaponize them, which allow governments, defense contractors and cybercriminals to invisibly spy on people’s devices without their knowledge, capturing everything from their locations to information caught on their microphones and cameras. The FaceTime flaw, and other Apple bugs, can fetch tens of thousands, if not hundreds of thousands or even millions of dollars, from dozens of brokers. Those brokers then sell those bugs for ever higher sums to governments and intelligence and law enforcement agencies around the world. On the seedier side of the spectrum are brokers who will sell these tools on the dark web to the highest bidder.The only catch is that hackers must promise never to disclose the flaw to the vendor for patching, so that buyers can keep their access.The market for Apple flaws has soared in the post-Edward Snowden era as technology makers include more security, like end-to-end encryption, to thwart would-be spies. This month, Zerodium, a well-known broker and security firm, raised its reward for an Apple iOS bug to $2 million.In part to compete in that market, and reward those who do right by the company by notifying it of potentially lucrative bugs, Apple announced its own bounty program in 2016 — the last of the Silicon Valley companies to do so.At a hacker conference that year in Las Vegas, Apple made a surprise announcement: It said it would start paying rewards as high as $200,000 to hackers who responsibly turned over crucial flaws in its products. But the bounty program has been slow going, in part, hackers say, because they can make multiples of that bounty on the black market, and because Apple has taken its time rewarding them for reporting problems.The FacePalm bug is a particularly egregious case, researchers say, not just because it was discovered by a teenager simply trying to use his phone, but because it allowed full microphone and video access.“This is a bug that Apple’s Q.A., should have caught,” Mr. Wardle said. “And where there’s smoke, there’s almost always fire.”Bug brokers say FacePalm, while impressive, would not have brought a top price because it leaves a record of the attack. The flaw works only if you FaceTime the person you want to capture audio and video for, notifying your target of the call.Bugs that fetch $2 million or $3 million on the black market leave no trace, work more than 99.5 percent of the time and work instantaneously, said Adriel Desautels, the chief executive of Netragard, a company that helps firms protect their software.In this case, Mr. Desautels said, FacePalm is not as dangerous as a flaw that can covertly track someone’s location, turn on that person’s camera and capture video without a trace.But, he added, “it’s pretty good for a high schooler.”Follow Nicole Perlroth on Twitter: @nicoleperlroth.

Paul Manafort’s Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dad’s Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back”House Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City Hotline2011: Arab Spring‘Can The President Be Impeached?’ We Answer Your QuestionsCalving Season

Supported byWhite Collar WatchBy Peter J. Henning Get the DealBook newsletter to make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.__________Trading on confidential information remains hard to resist despite a decade of criminal enforcement and prison terms for those who get caught and prosecuted.And as long as that is the case, insider trading will remain a focus for the Department of Justice and the Securities and Exchange Commission. Four cases in December show that reality.William T. Walters, one of America’s most famous gamblers, had his convictions for insider trading affirmed on Dec. 4 by the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in Manhattan. He is serving a five-year prison term for trading shares of Dean Foods based on information he received from the former chairman of the company’s board, Thomas Davis.His case was less about insider trading law and more about whether the investigation was tainted by what Mr. Walters’s lawyer labeled “extraordinary government misconduct.” The government admitted before trial that David Chaves, an F.B.I. special agent, leaked information about the investigation to reporters at The Wall Street Journal and The New York Times. The defense argued that Mr. Chaves made the disclosures to revive a dormant investigation, which led to Mr. Davis’s cooperation with the government and testimony against Mr. Walters.The appeals court called the agent’s conduct “highly improper” and said that the leaks “violated the grand jury secrecy provision” of Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 6(e). Still, the court found that the leaks did not taint Mr. Walters’s conviction because the grand jury’s decision to indict was not influenced by the news media reports. Thus, the convictions stand despite the misconduct of Mr. Chaves.In a second criminal insider trading case, prosecutors asked the Federal District Court in Manhattan on Dec. 4 to schedule a retrial of Sean Stewart, a former investment banker whose convictions were overturned in November. The appeals court found that the trial judge improperly excluded evidence that could be used to undermine a statement made by Mr. Stewart’s father that was the linchpin of the government’s case that Mr. Stewart improperly tipped his father to the impending deals.Mr. Stewart’s father said his son once berated him for not trading on information that he provided on a “silver platter.” Although the statement is problematic, the defense will have a better opportunity at the retrial to show the father might have just made it up. After his arrest, the father told agents that his son did not know about the trading or tipping of confidential information.In insider trading prosecutions, it is up to the jury to decide whom to believe when a defendant denies having any improper motive. The problem for a defendant like Mr. Stewart is that the widely held perception that Wall Street bankers trade on inside information is difficult to overcome.Also in December, the Federal District Court in Atlanta rejected an effort by Jun Ying, the former chief information officer at Equifax, to dismiss insider trading charges. Mr. Ying exercised all of his vested stock options and sold nearly $1 million in shares a little more than a week before the company disclosed the hack of its database in September 2017, according to the S.E.C. He argued that the government had not shown that he had “used” confidential information about the hack when he sold the shares.The question of how the government can show a defendant used inside information, even if it can prove the person knew it, can be difficult. In this case, prosecutors are relying on internet searches Mr. Ying conducted into the effect of hacks on other credit reporting companies, like Experian, and the timing of the trades to show that he must have based the trading decision on the inside information he gathered about the hacking at Equifax and not a more benign reason. By selling the shares when he did, the defendant gained $480,000. That’s something a jury is likely to view suspiciously. The stock dropped over 15 percent after news of the data breach was made public.The government often portrays insider trading as motivated by greed, and the opportunity to make money can prove irresistible when the only real victim of the violation is the faceless securities market.The lure of easy profits is apparent in civil charges filed by the S.E.C. against Rajeshwar R. Gannamaneni and his wife and father for trading ahead of 40 deals over four years. Mr. Gannamaneni was an information technology contractor for an investment bank in Singapore, and the three defendants are accused of making almost $600,000 from their trading.Hiding insider trading can be difficult if a person makes outsize profits, which will quickly draw the attention of the stock and options exchanges. But if one can keep the trading profits small, there is a chance that it might fly under the radar, at least for a time. The problem with this approach is that making a little bit of money is not nearly as satisfying as making a lot, so greed starts to take over.The charges against Mr. Gannamaneni and the other two defendants show that they started small, usually making a profit of less than $10,000, and once only $78. But by 2015 and 2016, their profit on trades was as high as $55,000. That is sure to draw the interest of the S.E.C.’s market surveillance office, which looks for patterns of successful trading.The lesson from Mr. Gannamaneni’s case is that confidential information exerts a powerful pull to make more and more easy money, which means that one is much more likely to get caught. So if you think the government will not notice your well-timed trades, increasing your profit means there is a much higher chance that you will be discovered.

Supported byThe online security “best practice” is still vulnerable to phishing attacks.By Josephine WolffMs. Wolff is an assistant professor at the Rochester Institute of Technology.Here’s how two-factor authentication is supposed to work: You log in to your bank account or email inbox, and after correctly entering your password, you are prompted to confirm the login through an app on your cellphone, a one-time code sent to you via text message or email, a physical YubiKey device or even a phone call. That app, text message, email, YubiKey or phone call is your “second factor,” intended to ensure that even if the person trying to log in isn’t really you, he or she still can’t gain access to your accounts without access to your phone or YubiKey.You might find two-factor authentication mildly irritating, and there’s a chance you might not even notice the extra step in the login process anymore. Regardless, you probably feel a certain comfort in the idea that at least your money or your inbox is well protected. But like so many other commonly accepted best practices in computer security, we actually know very little about how well two-factor authentication works.In December, Amnesty International released a report describing an easy-to-apply technique being used to compromise accounts protected by two-factor authentication. The hackers whom Amnesty International investigated, who were targeting accounts belonging to individuals in the Middle East and North Africa, set up phishing pages that captured not only users’ passwords but also the one-time authentication codes generated by their two-factor services.Setting up phishing websites that look like the login pages for well-known web services is a common way to steal passwords online. Here’s the way it works: Someone designs a website that looks almost exactly like Bank of America’s website and then emails you a message, purporting to be from Bank of America, warning you that your account is about to expire, or your information needs to be updated, and directing you to a fake site where you believe you’re logging into your bank account but instead are just typing your password into a website owned by scammers.This type of phishing is precisely the kind of threat that two-factor authentication is supposed to protect you against. Unlike so-called dictionary attacks — in which hackers try to guess your password by running through a dictionary of possible choices — forcing people to develop more complicated or longer passwords (a minimum of eight characters with uppercase and lowercase letters, and at least one symbol and one number) does not help at all when someone steals your password via phishing. So the password-complexity requirements that have reigned as a common (and irritating) best practice in every workplace for years are increasingly supplemented by two-factor authentication, to protect you against both dictionary attacks and phishing attacks.But it turns out that the one-time codes generated by people’s smartphones or sent via text message and email can also be phished. If you’re the hacker, all it takes is adding a component to your fake Bank of America website so that after you prompt someone for his password, you try to log in to his real Bank of America account using the password he has just provided, triggering a second-factor alert that doesn’t alarm him because he thinks he’s signing into Bank of America too. Then, on your fake phishing site, you prompt him to enter his second-factor code and use it to complete the login.The activity in Amnesty International’s report is not even the first time that two-factor authentication has been compromised in that manner. In 2014, an F.B.I. special agent, Elliott Peterson, described how malware distributed by the botnet GameOver Zeus could compromise two-factor authentication protecting bank accounts in the same way.The fact that two-factor authentication can be compromised through fairly straightforward, widely used tactics is no reason to stop using it. After all, no security tool is perfect. As long as it significantly decreases the likelihood of account compromises, two-factor authentication is still worth using. But we don’t know a lot about how much two-factor authentication actually helps protect your accounts.Google has offered its optional two-step verification system to Gmail users since 2011 but has never released any data about its effectiveness at driving down account compromises. In fact, last year Google switched all of its employees from using the Google Authenticator app for two-factor authentication to physical security-key devices that need to be inserted into a computer port to complete a login. Since making that switch, Google announced last July, none of its employee accounts have been compromised. The announcement seems to imply that the security provided through the app was not regarded as sufficient by the company for its internal accounts, even though it is what many Google users rely on. Should we all be using physical security keys? How much less effective is the Google Authenticator app? We still don’t know (though presumably, Google does).In the absence of any empirical evidence about how well two-factor authentication works, organizations have been rushing to institute it in recent years for fear of falling behind their peers. Even the federal government started rolling out two-factor authentication late last year to federal and state employees. The two-factor provider Duo Security saw its annual recurring revenue pass the $100 million mark in 2017, after increasing 135 percent in 2016. Last year Cisco purchased Duo for $2.35 billion, indicating just how valuable and ubiquitous this technology has become.The rapid rise of two-factor authentication is not a bad thing. In fact, it’s probably a good thing, but we can’t know that for sure until we learn something about how well it’s working. It makes logical sense that requiring more pieces of information to log in to an account would serve to better protect that account, but relying on common-sense justifications for computer security has misled us before. For instance, many companies require employees to change their passwords every year or every 90 days. For years, this has been commonly accepted as a best practice for security based on the idea that it makes it more difficult for hackers to use old, stolen passwords. But in fact, those mandatory password changes might sometimes do more harm than good unless the password has been compromised.Many computer security practices are propagated through misguided notions of “best practices” that businesses decide to adopt because they see everyone around them doing something and assume it must be the right choice. But just copying what everyone else is doing and calling it best practice does not actually help strengthen the security of our accounts or data. To do that, we need to be able to measure the impact of these practices using concrete data about whether they reduce instances of account compromises or stolen funds or intellectual property theft. We need the companies that operate and implement these security practices to track those metrics and be willing to release them, even when that data may not paint them in the best — or most secure — light. Otherwise, we’re left blindly adhering to supposed best practices without knowing what really works for cybersecurity.Josephine Wolff (@josephinecwolff) is an assistant professor at the Rochester Institute of Technology and the author of “You’ll See This Message When It Is Too Late: The Legal and Economic Aftermath of Cybersecurity Breaches.”Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported byBy Eileen Sullivan and Sharon LaFraniereWASHINGTON — In Friday’s indictment of Roger J. Stone Jr., a longtime informal adviser to President Trump, the special counsel for the first time revealed evidence of efforts by senior Trump campaign officials to learn how emails and other information that had been hacked by Russia and given to WikiLeaks could damage Hillary Clinton’s presidential campaign. The evidence appeared to contradict Mr. Stone’s assertions that he was acting on his own in his attempts to communicate with WikiLeaks. Senior campaign officials asked Mr. Stone to look into WikiLeaks’ plans, and he kept the campaign abreast of what he found out, the indictment said.The special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, disclosed new details about his investigation into Russia’s 2016 election interference and possible ties to the Trump campaign:The public has long known that Mr. Stone and his associates had tried to connect with WikiLeaks in the summer of 2016 as Mr. Trump clinched the Republican nomination. Senior campaign officials dispatched Mr. Stone on that mission, the indictment revealed.In June or July 2016, Mr. Stone told senior campaign aides that he knew that WikiLeaks had documents “whose release would be damaging to the Clinton campaign,” the indictment said. After WikiLeaks released emails stolen from the Democratic National Committee on July 22, 2016, “a senior Trump campaign official was directed to contact Stone about any additional releases” and other information that WikiLeaks had that could hurt Mr. Trump’s opponent in the race, Mrs. Clinton.The Trump campaign officials were interested in learning about the stolen emails and other documents, despite the fact, as the indictment noted, that the Democratic National Committee had publicly blamed the Russian government more than a month earlier for hacking its computers.This is the most tantalizing new detail in the indictment. Prosecutors left open the possibility that Mr. Trump himself might have wanted to find out how WikiLeaks could hurt Mrs. Clinton’s chances of winning the White House. The indictment provided no details about either the senior campaign official or the unnamed person.Six Trump advisers or officials have been charged by the special counsel.Jay Sekulow, Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, sought to distance his client from the indictment and any suggestion that he might have sought to coordinate with WikiLeaks. “The indictment today does not allege Russian collusion by Roger Stone or anyone else,” Mr. Sekulow said in a statement. “Rather, the indictment focuses on alleged false statements Mr. Stone made to Congress.”It was obvious during the summer of 2016 that Mr. Trump was interested in what WikiLeaks was up to. A day after WikiLeaks released the Democratic committee’s emails, Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter that the documents showed Democrats were trying to “destroy” Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, who was running against Mrs. Clinton for the Democratic nomination. Mr. Trump directed his Twitter followers to the WikiLeaks disclosures, writing: “On-line from Wikileakes, really vicious. RIGGED.”And a few days later, during a campaign rally, Mr. Trump invited Russia to search for emails Mrs. Clinton had deleted from a private account when she was secretary of state.Campaign officials sought information from WikiLeaks, the indictment said, but it did not allege that those interactions were illegal or that Mr. Stone or anyone else tied to the Trump campaign engaged in a criminal conspiracy with the organization.This is a point that lawyers for the White House and Mr. Stone emphasized in response to Mr. Stone’s arrest and the allegations in the indictment. The lawyers said Mr. Stone was not charged with “collusion” — the president’s shorthand for conspiring with the Russians.Mr. Mueller’s team has obtained indictments against Russians for conspiring to defraud the United States through an illegal social media campaign and conspiring to hack Democratic computers to steal emails and other documents. Investigators had been trying to determine whether Mr. Stone or any of Mr. Trump’s other associates were part of any illegal scheme orchestrated by the Russians or WikiLeaks to influence the election, according to two people briefed on the inquiry.To charge a defendant with such a conspiracy, prosecutors would need to show much more than what they allege in Mr. Stone’s indictment. They would have to show the defendant agreed with one or more people to commit a crime and knew the objective of the criminal scheme and took action to further it, said John Marston, a former assistant United States attorney who is now a partner at the law firm Foley Hoag.Prosecutors would not have to prove that the defendant knew every aspect of the conspiracy, Mr. Marston said. “But the government really needs something to show more than that the person was just associating with other bad actors, or merely aware of what the bad actors were doing,” he said.The special counsel has charged six other Trump associates on allegations of lying to Congress or federal authorities. Among them were Michael T. Flynn, Mr. Trump’s first national security adviser; Michael D. Cohen, the president’s longtime lawyer and fixer; and Rick Gates, the former Trump deputy campaign manager.In May 2017, Mr. Stone falsely told the House Intelligence Committee that he never discussed his WikiLeaks communications with anyone in the Trump campaign, according to the indictment. He also lied when he told the committee that he had no documents of interest to the House investigators, when in fact he had dozens of relevant emails and text messages, prosecutors said.He also falsely denied that he had asked intermediaries to pass along requests to Julian Assange, the founder of WikiLeaks, for documents that he believed would hurt Mrs. Clinton’s campaign, according to the indictment.He was also charged with trying to prevent an associate from contradicting his lies in his own testimony to the House committee. “Stonewall it. Plead the fifth,” he texted the associate.Michael S. Schmidt and Maggie Haberman contributed reporting.

Supported byBy Sharon LaFraniere and Michael S. SchmidtWASHINGTON — The indictment unsealed Friday against President Trump’s longtime adviser Roger J. Stone Jr. raised anew the perennial question about the Russia investigation: Will any Trump associate be charged for what Mr. Trump loves to refer to as collusion?Mr. Stone, the indictment said, conveyed information to the Trump campaign about WikiLeaks, the group that released thousands of Democratic emails and other documents in the months before the 2016 election. The Russians had stolen that material and delivered it to WikiLeaks as part of its broad effort to interfere in the American presidential election.But the indictment secured by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, does not contend that Mr. Stone’s efforts to connect with WikiLeaks were illegal. Instead, Mr. Stone was charged with lying to Congress about those efforts and trying to pressure an associate not to expose his lies.[Read the indictment against Mr. Stone.]Mr. Trump’s legal team likes to say that “collusion” is not a crime. But that is a purely semantic argument because a “conspiracy” between two or more people or entities to commit an offense is a crime.The question is whether Mr. Mueller’s team will find evidence that the Trump campaign agreed to work with WikiLeaks or the Russian government, or both, in a conspiracy to violate some statute — such as laws that make it illegal to hack private information or that bar foreigners and foreign entities from expending resources to influence American elections.The indictment said that senior Trump campaign aides contacted Mr. Stone “to inquire about future releases” by WikiLeaks during the summer of 2016 as Mr. Trump clinched the Republican nomination. Mr. Stone responded, telling the Trump campaign about potential disclosures from WikiLeaks.Given that the Democrats had publicly stated as early as June 2016 that they believed Russian operatives had infiltrated their computers, the Trump campaign’s eagerness to benefit from pilfered documents might seem distasteful. But merely being in touch with WikiLeaks does not rise to the level of a crime, former prosecutors said.Even if Trump campaign aides knew that the Russian government had funneled the stolen documents to WikiLeaks, the campaign would not be criminally culpable, they said. Knowing about someone’s else crime is a far cry from committing one.It is illegal for campaigns to accept foreign contributions, including services, which are considered in-kind donations. WikiLeaks is considered a foreign organization. So hypothetically, if the Trump campaign were actively involved in a scheme with WikiLeaks to bolster its own campaign, that might be a violation of the Federal Election Commission rules against foreign contributions.But at a minimum, that would require evidence that the Trump campaign knew that WikiLeaks was trying to damage Hillary Clinton’s candidacy, agreed with that objective and engaged in overt acts to further the scheme.“Two or more people have to agree to do something that the law forbids, and at least one of them has to take a step to further the conspiracy — an overt act,” said Chuck Rosenberg, a former United States attorney and senior F.B.I. official.What might constitute an “overt act”? If Trump campaign officials coordinated with Julian Assange, the organization’s founder, on the timing and content of the document releases in an effort to maximize the damage to the Clinton campaign, that might qualify. But Mr. Mueller has offered no evidence of that.Maybe. Mr. Rosenberg cautioned against viewing Mr. Stone’s indictment as the final word on whether the Trump campaign did or did not conspire with WikiLeaks. “I wouldn’t take from the fact that they didn’t charge it that they can’t charge it or that they won’t charge it,” he said.The special counsel has mounted two criminal cases claiming illegal schemes to tilt the election results, both against Russians. Legal experts cited those cases as possible templates for what a conspiracy case involving the Trump campaign might look like, assuming the evidence existed to bring one.Thirteen Russians and three Russian companies were accused of conspiring to defraud the United States by illegally influencing the presidential election. That indictment said the Russians mounted an illicit social media campaign aimed at sowing political discord, undercutting Mrs. Clinton and promoting Mr. Trump. Their activities were illegal because foreigners cannot spend money to influence American elections or engage in political activity in the United States without registering with the Justice Department.In the other case, Mr. Mueller charged 12 Russian military officers with hacking into Democratic computers and releasing tens of thousands of stolen documents, using WikiLeaks and other means. That case alleged a conspiracy to commit computer crimes.As Mr. Trump’s director of the Central Intelligence Agency, Mike Pompeo branded WikiLeaks a stateless hostile intelligence unit eager to do the bidding of Russia and other American adversaries.But the special counsel has not, so far, said that WikiLeaks was acting as an agent of the Russian government during the 2016 presidential race, much less claimed that the Trump campaign knew it was dealing with a Russian agent.It is not even entirely clear that WikiLeaks knew the source of its information was Russia. Russian operatives transferred the pilfered documents to the organization using a fake online persona, Guccifer 2.0.Mr. Stone himself defended WikiLeaks last year in a cable news interview. Asked if working with the organization would be treasonous, he replied: “No, actually, I don’t think so because for it to be a treasonous act, Assange would have to be probably a Russian asset and WikiLeaks would have to be a Russian front, and I do not believe that is the case.”Whether prosecutors think so is unclear. Last year, the Justice Department inadvertently revealed that it had secretly charged Mr. Assange, but it remains unclear for what crimes. Mr. Assange has been holed up in the Ecuadorean Embassy in London for years for fear of criminal prosecution.The president publicly encouraged Russian operatives to infiltrate Mrs. Clinton’s emails during the 2016 campaign, saying they would “probably be rewarded mightily by our press” if they uncovered the messages. That same day, Russian hackers tried to break into servers that housed the emails for Mrs. Clinton’s personal office, according to court documents Mr. Mueller filed last year.But that alone is far from enough to land Mr. Trump in legal hot water.Legal experts said that prosecutors would need evidence that the Russians and Mr. Trump were working together — not merely that he encouraged computer espionage.“It’s can’t just be cause and effect, there has to be some type of agreement — whether explicit or implicit — that shows they were working together and prosecutors would have to have the evidence to prove that beyond a reasonable doubt,” said Joyce Vance, a professor of law at the University of Alabama and former United States attorney.Follow Sharon LaFraniere and Michael S. Schmidt on Twitter: @SharonLNYT and @NYTmike.Adam Goldman and Charlie Savage contributed reporting.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.

Supported byBy Janet MorrisseyWhen a major electronics firm started seeing strange documents being printed out remotely on more than 100 of its smart printers late last year, it frantically contacted the manufacturer to investigate.The firm nervously wondered how — and why — an unauthorized third party was sending documents to its printers remotely. And worse, it feared its entire corporate network had been breached. The manufacturer immediately called in the big guns, Charles Henderson, global head of X-Force Red, a professional hacking team at IBM Security, for answers.“Unless you believe in ghosts, you get kind of concerned when your printer just starts printing stuff out that you can’t account for,” said Mr. Henderson, who declined to name the firm for privacy reasons.His team quickly identified the problem as a flaw in the printer’s remote access function, and a patch fixed the vulnerability.Finding and testing for flaws and breaches in smart devices is Mr. Henderson’s specialty. “I run a team of hackers,” is how Mr. Henderson describes his role, then clarifying they are paid professional hackers who look for bugs, glitches, and malfunctions.And with demand for smart devices, ranging from smart lights to outdoor sprinklers, surging in mainstream America, his job has gotten a lot busier.“We’ve received roughly five times the number of requests for security testing of IoT [internet of things] devices in the last year,” said Mr. Henderson. “Growth has been immense over the last year to 18 months.”Indeed, the soaring popularity of smart speakers, like Amazon Echo and Google Home, is starting to move the “Smart Home” into mainstream America. It’s no longer just tech geeks and phone-obsessed millennials who are scouring the tech universe for information on the next best gadget that lets them control lights, TVs, appliances, door locks, and even lawn sprinklers with a voice command or tap on a smartphone.But all of this buzz and hype are putting pressure on smart device makers to rush their gadgets into the market while demand is hot — and sometimes, this means security features take a back seat, said Mr. Henderson. And cyber criminals are watching.“Criminals rob banks because that’s where the money is,” said Charles Golvin, senior research director at Gartner, a research and advisory firm. “They’ll commit cyber crimes because that’s where the opportunity is.”Some get crafty, making mock interfaces on a person’s phone that look like an IoT’s interface login to steal passwords — similar to the way thieves send fake emails to people pretending to be from credit card companies and banks.Experts caution consumers to research carefully and move diligently when adding smart devices to their home network. “If one device gets compromised, it could be the same as allowing an attacker to plug into the entire network,” giving the criminal control over all devices, warned Mr. Henderson.Concerns about privacy and the complexity of smart home devices are two reasons fully outfitted smart homes are not likely to happen overnight, experts say.Wanting — and actually installing — smart devices are very different scenarios with the latter requiring patience and diligent research in navigating through a costly, cumbersome and often time-consuming process.The setup also takes time, as it involves choosing brands and understanding routers, hubs and wireless communications protocols, like ZigBee, Z-Wave, and Bluetooth, so that all of the smart devices can talk to each other.“If you actually want to make your house do half a dozen of these things, it’s a lot of work,” said Frank Gillett, vice president and principal analyst at Forrester Research. “You need people to be patient and comfortable with working through multiple steps of instruction, and in my observation, a significant amount of the population is not comfortable or patient.” If you own a lot of different smart devices, it will mean many different apps on your phone. The process of opening and launching an app every time you want to control a device — or remember the exact phrases to get a voice assistant to do it — can be cumbersome and annoying.One company, Sevenhugs, simplifies this problem.The firm’s single remote allows a person to control a home’s smart TV, lights, entertainment system, and other connected devices simply by pointing the remote at them. It means family members and guests can access all the smart devices without having to use a personal phone or launch multiple apps, said Simon Tchedikian, founder of Sevenhugs.Ultimately Mr. Tchedikian wants to streamline content as well so that someone could ask for the latest season of the ‘Game of Thrones’ and it would pop up without having to know and specify which streaming service, platform or on-demand service was offering it.Beside ease of use, privacy and security are critical.Using smart cameras can be great for remotely monitoring an aging parent or checking whether a child got home from school, but they could be intrusive and even risky if the system is hacked.To lower risk and security concerns, experts suggest steps people should take when building a smart home.First, buy quality brands. While some big brands, like Samsung, are leaders in smart appliances, the rest of the smart device world is fragmented, with much of the innovation coming from focused start-ups and midsize companies.Some of the current leaders are Philips Hue for lights, Nest and Ecobee for thermostats, Ring for doorbells, and WeMo for light switches and plugs.If it’s a start up, research the firm and make sure it has a strong online presence, preferably with active user groups discussing the product.“If they don’t have a budget for an online presence, then they probably don’t have a budget for security,” said Mr. Henderson.Second, security updates are critical. “Most technology companies are going to have vulnerabilities — it’s hard to get everything right” at the start, said Mr. Henderson. He recommends checking for patches or firmware updates on the company’s website to make sure it’s on top of security issues.Third, create strong Wi-Fi passwords and engage two-factor authentication where possible.Fourth, if you move into a new home, buy a secondhand car, or purchase a used smart device, always make sure previous owners’ accounts aren’t still connected to the hubs, routers and devices.Mr. Henderson recalls selling his smart car and buying a new one from the same manufacturer. When he went to enroll his new car in the auto manufacturer’s app, he discovered his old account had not been deleted from his old convertible.“They hadn’t revoked my access,” said Mr. Henderson. “I could have tracked down my old car using the GPS functionality, I could have unlocked it, honked the horn — I could have made the new owner of my old car think the car was possessed.”Also, always look at all devices that are connected to your network.“If you’ve got rogue devices connected to your network, it’s not your network anymore. It’s a shared network,” said Mr. Henderson. “If you had access to somebody’s home hub — and that hub had a sprinkler system, light switches and garage door opener connected to it, you could open their garage door, turn on the sprinkler systems, and start flashing the lights.”Fifth, consumers need to prepare for a smart device’s failure — whether it’s because of a product malfunction or a power or internet outage.“Turn off power to the devices and unplug the internet and see what happens,” said Mr. Henderson. “But you definitely don’t want to wait and find out that they don’t work when you’re standing outside your home trying to get in.”Being technology, it will malfunction sometimes, whether it’s smart or not.“Things do break,” said Mr. Golvin.Finding someone to repair that new technology can be challenging — even if it’s made by a big brand.When Jordan and Ben Feria of Orange Park, Fla., purchased a $4,400 Samsung Family Hub smart refrigerator in late 2017, the refrigerator portion broke down last November, even though the smart features on the outside touch-screen continued to work. The couple took to social media and a local TV station after dozens of technicians were unable to repair it. When the couple contacted Samsung, they were told there was only one authorized technician in Northeast Florida who could handle the repair — and even then, the person was unable to repair it. The couple wound up getting a refund.A Samsung spokeswoman, Alicia Clarke, described the Feria’s problem as a “rare experience” and said “the matter was resolved with the consumer,” and noted that the problem was related to the refrigerator’s compressor — not with the smart technology.“While it is unfortunate that the Ferias had an issue with their refrigerator, the problem was limited to the unit’s compressor, not any of the smart technology incorporated into the Family Hub,” she said.And finally, in this fiercely-competitive and fast-changing space, many smart device makers will implode — and consumers need a fallback plan in place if they do. Even the most promising company can go belly-up without warning.LightHouse was widely hailed as a trailblazer with its home cameras that offered 3D sensors and artificial intelligence capabilities. Its cameras could monitor with such precision that a voice command asking the app how a vase got broken earlier in the day could pull up the section of video that showed the child or pet who did the deed, said Mr. Gillett of Forrester.LightHouse was viewed as the future. However, the company abruptly closed shop in late 2018, with a note on its webpage, entitled “Lights Out” that read: ‘Unfortunately, we did not achieve the commercial success we were looking for and will be shutting down operations in the near future.’“This is what happens sometimes with these cool vendors who are ahead of the curve,” said Mr. Golvin. “Bleeding edge versus leading edge.”

Supported byCould the Trump campaign really not have known that in dealing with WikiLeaks it was dealing with Russia?By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.In his indictment of the Trump torpedo Roger Stone, the special counsel Robert Mueller noted that on June 14, 2016, the Democratic National Committee announced “that it had been hacked by Russian government actors.” According to the indictment, unsealed Friday, Mr. Stone participated in and helped conceal an effort by the Trump campaign to cooperate with WikiLeaks in publicizing thousands of emails stolen from the Clinton campaign, which was done to devastating political effect. Mr. Stone stands accused of obstructing an official proceeding, making multiple false statements to Congress and tampering with a witness.Around June and July of 2016, the indictment says, Mr. Stone told “senior Trump campaign officials” that WikiLeaks possessed stolen emails that would damage Hillary Clinton’s chances of being president. It released the first batch on July 22, roiling the Democratic National Convention, which began three days later. Maybe Mr. Trump and his associates had no idea who stole the emails and did not connect this bonanza with “Russian government actors.”Mr. Trump and his associates might have thought that Julian Assange, the WikiLeaks founder, was just being a mischievous scamp, not passing along communications stolen by Russian intelligence, most of which came from the hacker Guccifer 2.0, an online persona created by Russian military intelligence officers. Mr. Stone said in 2017 that he had carried out “completely innocuous” private Twitter exchanges with Guccifer 2.0 during the presidential campaign. But then why did Mr. Trump say, five days after the first WikiLeaks release, “Russia, if you’re listening, I hope you’re able to find the 30,000 emails that are missing. I think you will probably be rewarded mightily by our press.”And might not the Trump circle have suspected that WikiLeaks was working with Russia after Donald Trump Jr., Jared Kushner and the campaign chairman Paul Manafort met at Trump Tower on June 9, 2016, with Russians who were peddling dirt on Mrs. Clinton?And if Mr. Trump’s first F.B.I. intelligence briefing on Aug. 17, 2016, included a warning about Russian espionage, as NBC News reported in 2017, why didn’t Mr. Trump or anyone else in the campaign tell the agents about the meeting or the suspicious release of emails?After the first WikiLeaks release, the indictment says, “a senior Trump Campaign official was directed” — presumably by someone even more senior — to contact Mr. Stone about what dirt the group had on the Clinton campaign. If the Trump campaign had not known that it was getting dirt from Russia, why did George Papadopoulos, a campaign adviser whom Mr. Trump called “an excellent guy,” plead guilty to lying about his contact with a professor who said he had dirt from Russia on Mrs. Clinton? (Mr. Papadopoulos’s lawyer said his client had taken his cues from Mr. Trump, and that “the president of the United States hindered this investigation more than George Papadopoulos ever could.”) Why did the former national security adviser Michael Flynn plead guilty to falsely telling the F.B.I. that he had not talked to the Russian ambassador about easing economic sanctions? And why did Mr. Trump craft a false story about the Trump Tower meeting, and falsely claim again and again that he had no business dealings with Russia even when his associates were negotiating with aides to President Vladimir Putin about a project in Moscow that could have earned him hundreds of millions of dollars?Mr. Trump’s former adviser Steve Bannon told the author Michael Wolff that he thought the Trump Tower meeting was “treasonous.” Yet he had no problem cooperating with WikiLeaks, according to the indictment. He is apparently the “high-ranking Trump Campaign official” who asked Mr. Stone on Oct. 4, 2016, about future WikiLeaks releases. Three days later, after the first stolen emails from Mrs. Clinton’s campaign chairman, John Podesta, were released, one of Mr. Bannon’s associates texted Mr. Stone, “well done.”No one should jump to conclusions in this case. As president, Mr. Trump may have held himself to be above the law, but he is entitled to the presumption of innocence. For their part, the American people are entitled to some answers.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported byAnother ViewBy Craig A. NewmanGet the DealBook newsletter to make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.__________Shareholders haven’t been successful in holding companies accountable for data breaches.That changed in the first month of 2019.The former officers and directors of Yahoo agreed to pay $29 million to settle charges that they breached their fiduciary duties in their handling of customer data during a series of cyberattacks from 2013 until 2016. Three billion Yahoo user accounts were compromised in the attacks. The settlement ended three so-called derivative lawsuits filed in Delaware and California against the company’s former leadership team and board, including Marissa Mayer, Yahoo’s former chief executive. Insurance coverage will pick up the tab.The settlement, approved this month by a Superior Court judge in Santa Clara, Calif., marked the first time that shareholders have been awarded a monetary damages in a derivative lawsuit related to a data breach. There have been very few breach-related derivative lawsuits, and all had been dismissed by the courts or settled without a payment to the shareholders.A derivative lawsuit is a legal mechanism that gives the owners of a company — the shareholders — a way to hold corporate directors and management accountable for their actions. Shareholders file a claim on the company’s behalf, with any money recovered going to the corporation, not the individual shareholders, because the violation harmed only the organization.Under the Yahoo settlement, the lawyers walk away with about $11 million in fees and expenses, with the remaining $18 million paid to Yahoo, now called Altaba after Verizon acquired Yahoo’s internet business in 2017.A $29 million settlement might seem trivial for a company that has a market capitalization of $38 billion. But it signals that director and officer liability for cybersecurity oversight is entering new and potentially perilous territory. That is especially so in cases like Yahoo’s, in which shareholders allege egregious misconduct at the highest levels of an organization.Those allegations might explain why the Yahoo case was settled.Insurers don’t typically cough up tens of millions of dollars to settle derivative cases, which can be tough for shareholders to win. They must show that board members breached their fiduciary responsibilities by consciously disregarding their duties. The chief justice of the Delaware Supreme Court has called these claims “possibly the most difficult theory in corporation law upon which a plaintiff might hope to win a judgment.”The parties jointly told the court that the settlement was fair, in the best interest of all parties, and that a series of data security improvements have been worked out to minimize the chances that this will happen again. But the facts of the case most likely led the insurers to conclude that their exposure could be greater than the settlement.The reason is that the actions alleged in the lawsuit are outrageous. The nearly 120-page complaint — which is heavily redacted — reads at points more like a criminal indictment than a lawsuit. It accuses Yahoo’s former leaders of engaging in an elaborate, yearslong plot to cover up hacks going back to 2013 and conducting a “sham” investigation to “conceal the largest hacking incident in U.S. history.”Yahoo was a pioneer of the internet era, and the core of its business was providing ways for users to communicate with one another confidentially. Yet Yahoo failed miserably at this fundamental mission, according to the shareholders’ complaint. The expectations for consumer privacy and data security are far different for an internet company than a corner hardware store. The insurance carriers clearly understood this fact.The company’s settlement with the Securities and Exchange Commission in April provided further fodder to justify a settlement. The S.E.C. tagged Altaba with a $35 million penalty for failing to make a timely disclosure of the data breach, the commission’s first action for a cybersecurity disclosure violation.But it’s the details of the S.E.C. settlement that most likely proved the most troubling for the insurers. According to the S.E.C., “In late 2014, Yahoo had learned of a massive breach of its user database that resulted in the theft, unauthorized access or acquisition of hundreds of millions of its user’s personal data.” The agency further alleged that “Yahoo senior management and relevant legal staff did not properly assess the scope, business impact or legal implications of the breach” and “did not share information regarding the breach with Yahoo’s auditors or outside counsel.”Yahoo didn’t disclose the breach until September 2016, when it was negotiating the sale of its internet business to Verizon. Although the transaction was completed, the acquisition price was lowered by $350 million to $4.48 billion. That made for bad optics, a fact that the insurers probably recognized.Any company that figured it had little to fear from shareholders after a breach should now think twice. And in the meantime, this is definitely not the time to cut back insurance for officers and directors.Craig A. Newman is a partner and chair of the privacy practice at Patterson Belknap Webb &amp; Tyler, a New York law firm.

Supported byIt was probably not Stone himself, but rather his electronic devices.By Julian SanchezMr. Sanchez is a senior fellow at the Cato Institute.For many, Friday’s arrest of Roger Stone, the veteran political trickster and longtime adviser to Donald Trump, was a sign that the special counsel investigation into Russian electoral interference is entering its final phase. Yet there were also several indications that the probe may not be as near its conclusion as many observers assume — and that the true target of Friday’s F.B.I. actions was not Mr. Stone himself, but his electronic devices.Mr. Stone’s early-morning arrest at his Florida home unsurprisingly dominated coverage, but reports also noted that federal agents were “seen carting hard drives and other evidence from Mr. Stone’s apartment in Harlem, and his recording studio in South Florida was also raided.” The F.B.I., in other words, was executing search warrants, not just arrest warrants. Even the timing and manner of Mr. Stone’s arrest — at the absolute earliest moment allowed under federal rules of criminal procedure without persuading a judge to authorize an exceptional nighttime raid — suggests a concern with preventing destruction of evidence: Otherwise it would make little sense to send a dozen agents to arrest a man in his 60s before sunrise.The indictment itself — which charges Mr. Stone with witness tampering, obstruction of justice and false statements to Congress — takes little imagination to translate into a search warrant application, and also hints at what Robert Mueller might be looking for. In describing the lies it alleges Mr. Stone told a House committee, the document places great emphasis on Mr. Stone’s denial that he had any written communications with two associates — associates with whom he had, in fact, regularly exchanged emails and text messages. That’s precisely the sort of behavior one might focus on in seeking to convince a recalcitrant judge that an investigative target could not be trusted to turn over documents in response to a subpoena, requiring the more intrusive step of seizing Mr. Stone’s devices directly.Of course, as the indictment also makes clear, the special counsel has already managed to get its hands on plenty of Mr. Stone’s communications by other means — but one seeming exception jumps out. In a text exchange between Mr. Stone and a “supporter involved with the Trump Campaign,” Mr. Mueller pointedly quotes Mr. Stone’s request to “talk on a secure line — got WhatsApp?” There the direct quotes abruptly end, and the indictment instead paraphrases what Mr. Stone “subsequently told the supporter.” Though it’s not directly relevant to his alleged false statements, the special counsel is taking pains to establish that Mr. Stone made a habit of moving sensitive conversations to encrypted messaging platforms like WhatsApp — meaning that, unlike ordinary emails, the messages could not be obtained directly from the service provider. The clear implication is that any truly incriminating communications would have been conducted in encrypted form — and thus could be obtained only directly from Mr. Stone’s own phones and laptops. And while Mr. Stone likely has limited value as a cooperating witness — it’s hard to put someone on the stand after charging them with lying to obstruct justice — the charges against him provide leverage in the event his cooperation is needed to unlock those devices by supplying a cryptographic passphrase.Of course, Mr. Mueller is likely interested in his communications with Trump campaign officials, but the detailed charges filed against the Russian hackers alleged to have broken into the Democratic National Committee’s servers also show the special counsel’s keen interest in Mr. Stone’s communications with the hacker “Guccifer 2.0,” an identity said to have been used as a front for the Russian intruders. By Mr. Stone’s own admission, he had a brief exchange with “Guccifer” via private Twitter messages. On Mr. Stone’s account, Guccifer enthusiastically offered his assistance — at the same time we now know Mr. Stone was vigorously pursuing advance knowledge of what other embarrassing material stolen from Mr. Trump’s opponents might soon be released — and Mr. Stone failed to even dignify the offer with a reply. With no easy way of getting hold of “Guccifer’s” cellphone, searching Mr. Stone’s devices might be the only reliable way for the special counsel to discover whether the conversation in fact continued on a more “secure line.”Yet if Mr. Mueller is indeed less interested in Mr. Stone than the potential evidence on his phones and computers, the conventional wisdom that the special counsel probe is wrapping up — and could issue a final report as soon as next month — seems awfully implausible. Digital forensics takes time, and a single device could easily hold many thousands of messages to sift through. And if this really is the first time Mr. Mueller’s office is seeing the most sensitive communications from a key figure like Mr. Stone, it’s likely they’ll come away with new leads to follow and new questions to pose to other witnesses. We may ultimately look back on Mr. Stone’s arrest not as the beginning of the special counsel’s endgame, but the point when the investigation began to really heat up. Julian Sanchez is a senior fellow at the Cato Institute.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

transcriptHosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Theo Balcomb, Paige Cowett, Jonathan Wolfe and Alexandra Leigh Young, and edited by Lisa TobinThe special counsel’s indictment of the longtime Trump adviser establishes a direct connection between WikiLeaks and the president’s campaign.Monday, January 28th, 2019michael barbaroFrom The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is The Daily. Today: The special counsel’s indictment of Roger Stone contains details as over-the-top as Stone himself, including encouraging an associate to use a tactic straight from “The Godfather” films. But the indictment itself is quite serious in finally making a link between the Trump campaign and WikiLeaks. It’s Monday, January 28. [POUNDING ON DOOR]archived recordingF.B.I.! Open the door!archived recording (roger stone)Twenty-nine F.B.I. agents showed up at my home, pounded on the door. [POUNDING ON DOOR]archived recordingF.B.I.!archived recording (roger stone)I opened the door to pointed automatic weapons. I was handcuffed. There were —archived recordingWe have some major breaking news in the Mueller investigation. Roger Stone — you see him right there — President Trump’s longtime political adviser, former campaign aide, has been arrested in Florida. Charged with seven federal felonies, obstruction of an official proceeding, five counts of making false statements and one count of witness tampering.archived recording (sarah huckabee sanders)This has nothing to do with the president, has nothing to do with the White House, and beyond that, I’m not going to get into the back and forth.archived recordingHave you spoken to the president?archived recording (roger stone)There is no circumstance whatsoever under which I will bear false witness against the president, nor will I make up lies to ease the pressure on myself. I look forward to being fully and completely vindicated.michael barbaroSo, Mark Mazzetti, what do we need to know about who Roger Stone is?mark mazzettiRoger Stone is a legendary Republican operative who, from the earliest days of his career, has plied the dark arts of scandal-mongering and dirty tricks in aid of political campaigns.archived recordingAre you telling me that that was a lie? Roger Stone is a trickster. Roger Stone is a shady character, O.K.? I know Roger Stone, and you know, he worked for Nixon. He famously tattooed his hero on his back. And who among us can say that? The questionable consultant’s resume is filled with work for Republican stars — Nixon, Reagan, Bush senior.mark mazzettiHe is someone who very proudly talks about how he tries to plant stories with the press, someone who tries to dig up any kind of personal dirt about a candidate in order to help the other side.archived recording (roger stone)I’m certainly guilty of bluffing and posturing and punking the Democrats. Unless they pass some law against bull-bull-[BLEEP]-ing-ing and I missed it, I’m engaging in tradecraft. It’s politics. I’m sure it’s driving the Democrats crazy, but there’s nothing illegal about it.mark mazzettiSo this is someone who — well, for many people who hate politics, they would hate someone like Roger Stone.archived recording (roger stone)The truth is, Jimmy Carter’s middle name was not Hussein. A very substantial number of people wonder, because of the policies of this administration, about whether the president is a Muslim. This is not going to hurt Trump, and it’s not going to hurt Carson.archived recordingThey may wonder, but should a presidential candidate like Trump be saying that, or at least condoning it with his silence?archived recording (roger stone)I don’t think he commented either way.mark mazzettiHe goes on television in strange outfits, he gives interviews from his pool and clearly, in many cases, doesn’t take himself too seriously.michael barbaroSo he’s kind of a sideshow.mark mazzettiExcept he’s someone who Donald Trump has taken seriously for a long time.archived recording (roger stone)He’s a regular guy. You can talk to him like a regular person. There’s nothing formal or stilted about him, and he’s funny. He’s got a great self-deprecating wit. He’s just fun to be with.mark mazzettiHe’s been this sort of informal adviser to Trump over decades, and someone who, long, long before anyone took seriously the idea of Donald Trump being the president of the United States, Roger Stone was pushing this idea.archived recording (roger stone)It was not until 1987, really, late ‘87, that I began thinking about him as a presidential candidate.mark mazzettiAlthough it has often been a contentious relationship.archived recording (roger stone)Yeah, I think we have a complicated relationship. But first of all, recognize, I’m a Trump loyalist. Even when he’s wrong, I’ll be there.mark mazzettiThey’ve been at odds at times. He’s someone who didn’t last very long on the Trump campaign. He started out as an official campaign adviser, but was fired from the campaign pretty quickly.archived recordingAnd more turmoil for Trump — a top longtime associate both from his business world and in the political realm, Roger Stone is out tonight. Dispute about whether he resigned or was fired. Trump’s campaign says Stone was fired because he was using the campaign to seek publicity for himself.archived recording (roger stone)I have no interest in going back. Although I strongly support Trump, we have managerial differences. And meanwhile, I’m just making the very best case for him in public that I can, because I do think he has what it takes.michael barbaroAnd insofar as he was involved in the campaign, what exactly was his role as an informal adviser? What did that amount to?mark mazzettiHe was the classic late-night phone call person to listen to what Trump was thinking. He was the confidant of then-candidate Trump, talking to him by phone, being a sort of back channel of advice outside official campaign communications. You didn’t always know that Roger Stone was there, because he did have this behind-the-scenes role. But it was pretty apparent to people close to Trump that Roger Stone had this outsized influence over Trump.archived recordingIt seems to me there’s more than meets the eye here with Roger Stone parting company from the Trump campaign, coming on my program and others and giving the big Trump pitch.archived recording (roger stone)You media types are so conspiratorial. [LAUGHTER]archived recordingNo, no, the Stone-Trump types I think are the conspiratorial.archived recording (roger stone)I’m like —mark mazzettiSo he was behind the scenes until he wasn’t. In August of 2016, a few months before the election, Roger Stone sent a very cryptic tweet about Podesta.archived recordingRoger Stone tweeted that it would soon be, quote, “Podesta’s time in the barrel.”mark mazzettiAnd he said it will soon be his time in the barrel. Now Podesta was John Podesta, the campaign chairman for Hillary Clinton. And no one really knew what that meant until a few months later in October. A few weeks before the election, he sent out another tweet. I think it said, “On Wednesday, Hillary Clinton is done. #WikiLeaks.”archived recordingRoger Stone writes, “Thursday, October 6, Julian Assange will deliver a devastating expose on Hillary at a time of his choosing. I stand by my prediction. #HandcuffsForHillary.”mark mazzettiAnd then —archived recordingWe need to talk about these hacked emails.mark mazzettiThe Podesta emails spill out a few days later.archived recordingWikiLeaks released more than 2,000 emails. They claim they came from her campaign chairman, John Podesta, and other staffers. The leak revealed transcripts from some of Clinton’s paid Wall Street speeches. This is the first time that we’re actually getting a look at these Wall Street speeches. What you see is that her own words really hit on her own perceived weaknesses, particularly around relatability and trust. You see why she really wasn’t in a hurry to release these, as it really highlights a lot of concerns that voters have about her.mark mazzettiAnd so this is again Roger Stone creating this image that he had a direct channel to WikiLeaks and knew what the information was going to be before it became public.michael barbaroRight. And if I remember correctly, one of those WikiLeaks dumps of emails was right around the time of the “Access Hollywood” tape being published.archived recording (john podesta)October 7, the “Access Hollywood” tape comes out. One hour later, WikiLeaks starts dropping my emails into the public. One could say that those things might not have been a coincidence.michael barbaroWhich was interesting timing.mark mazzettiWithin hours. And of course, that’s very fortuitous timing if you’re candidate Trump. Very quickly, a lot of the media started focusing on the Podesta emails rather than this explosive story about the “Access Hollywood” tape.michael barbaroSo at this point, justifiably, everyone is starting to wonder, does Roger Stone, this informal adviser to the president who is in touch with the campaign, does he have inside knowledge of what’s going on at WikiLeaks? Is he coordinating with this organization?mark mazzettiYes, and remember, Roger Stone has built a career on creating an image that he does have great access.archived recording (roger stone)I actually have communicated with Assange. I believe the next tranche of his documents pertain to the Clinton Foundation.mark mazzettiHe does have insight that others don’t.archived recording (roger stone)I think that Assange is going to be very influential in this election, because he’s going to be educating the American people about the Clintons.mark mazzettiOnce the Russia investigation heats up, though, he has to reverse course.archived recording (roger stone)I had no advance notice of the content source or the exact disclosure time of the WikiLeaks disclosures. Assange himself has said so. In fact, Assange has said in his own tweets and in interviews that Roger Stone never predicted anything that I hadn’t already said in public.mark mazzettiHe has to paint himself as someone who didn’t have that knowledge, who didn’t have any insight, because that was something that could potentially put him in real legal jeopardy.michael barbaroSo what do we learn from this indictment last week about what was really going on here?mark mazzettiSo what we learned on Friday is that Roger Stone in fact did have insights into what WikiLeaks was doing. He made extensive efforts to find out what Julian Assange was planning. And we find out that he was directed by people inside the campaign to go find out what WikiLeaks was doing. So we really, for the first time, have a sense that there was a link between WikiLeaks’s efforts to damage Hillary Clinton and the Trump campaign’s efforts to damage Hillary Clinton. And that link was Roger Stone. And something else that should not be lost in all this is that all of this was happening months after it was first revealed that the Russian government was behind this operation to hack the Democratic servers and put the information out for WikiLeaks.michael barbaroAnd that’s significant because it’s one thing to be coordinating with WikiLeaks when no one quite knows how it got those internal Clinton emails. It’s another to be coordinating with WikiLeaks once it’s understood that the emails it’s disseminating were stolen by Russia. It seems to elevate this above wanting negative information about your opponent out in the world.mark mazzettiThat’s right. All of this was done while it was well known that the Russians were behind this operation.michael barbaroSo do we know who on the campaign was talking to Roger Stone and encouraging him to keep communicating with WikiLeaks and find out when their leaks would occur?mark mazzettiThat’s where it becomes really interesting. The Times reported a few months ago that Steve Bannon, who was the campaign chairman at the end, was in contact with Roger Stone about this. In early October, Stone writes Steve Bannon that WikiLeaks would release, quote, “a load every week going forward.” He separately writes to a supporter involved in the Trump campaign, quote, “spoke to my friend in London last night. The payload is still coming.”michael barbaroFriend in London presumably meaning Julian Assange?mark mazzettiRight. But the Mueller indictment has a very tantalizing detail.michael barbaroWhat’s that?mark mazzettiThe indictment said that a senior campaign official, quote, was directed by someone to contact Stone about additional WikiLeaks releases. There’s a very odd use of the passive voice that you would not expect in an indictment written by lawyers with Ivy League educations. The indictment does not say who it was that directed the senior campaign official. Of course, it’s led to speculation that that person could only be Donald Trump. We don’t know.michael barbaroEverything you’re describing here about Roger Stone’s communications with the campaign and Roger Stone’s communications with WikiLeaks — it sounds quite nefarious, but I wonder if it is illegal. Is his communication with WikiLeaks what Roger Stone was indicted for?mark mazzettiNo. The charge is Stone lying to Congress about his interactions with WikiLeaks, trying to tamper with witness testimony and an overall charge of obstruction of justice. As for the witness tampering charge, that centers around Stone’s interactions with someone named Randy Credico, who is a longtime New York radio personality, on-again-off-again friend of Stone, and someone who did in fact seem to have direct connections to Julian Assange and WikiLeaks. And what the indictment details is that Roger Stone had several communications with Credico, trying to make sure that Credico told the same story to the House that Roger Stone had told, and even suggesting that he should pull a, quote, “Frank Pentangeli” before the committee.archived recordingDid you serve on the capital regime, Peter Clemenza, under Vito Corleone, also known as “the godfather“?mark mazzettiAnd that is a reference to a character in “The Godfather 2” who is called before Congress to testify about the mob and all of a sudden gets amnesia.archived recordingI ask you again, sir, here and now, under oath, were you at any time a member of a crime organization headed by Michael Corleone? I don’t know nothing about that! Oh. I was in the olive oil business with his father, but that was a long time ago. That’s all.michael barbaroAnd why isn’t Mueller going after Stone for anything other than the lying, for the actions he lied about?mark mazzettiIt’s hard to make a conspiracy case. The fact is that the emails appear to have been stolen before Roger Stone knew about them, so he didn’t seem to have participated in the theft. And he seemed to maybe be trafficking in information that was becoming public or was about to be public. And this is what his defenders and the president’s defenders have pointed out, that these are all crimes that happened after the fact. He is not being charged with something that’s at the bottom of this whole thing — collusion, conspiracy, et cetera. And this is what, of course, President Trump has fallen back on for some time.archived recordingThis is why this thing is so weird, strange. The crime is conspiracy to hack. Collusion is not a crime. It doesn’t exist. Now, conspiracy to defraud the government — you’re right. Conspiracy to hack, that is the crime. We don’t know whether — Now, did Donald Trump engage in a conspiracy to hack with the Russians? They’ve been going at it — the counterintelligence investigation came to the conclusion — no evidence.michael barbaroMark, it feels like time and time again, when it comes to the Mueller investigation, he and his prosecutors are charging people around the president with lying or tampering with a witness or doing something deceptive around their interactions with his own investigation, but not with actually colluding with Russia or coordinating with Russia or being involved in a conspiracy that involves Russia, which, of course, is what this investigation is really about. What do you make of that?mark mazzettiIf you want to look at it as a best-case scenario for President Trump, it’s that there’s no original crime here. There’s no collusion, there’s no conspiracy. They’ve been charged because they were just lying to Congress.archived recordingToday’s surprise guilty plea by Michael Cohen — Cohen said in federal court that he lied to Congress, he says, to support Mr. Trump’s timeline of a Moscow real estate deal.mark mazzettiLying to the F.B.I. Withholding evidence.archived recordingTonight, former Trump campaign aide George Papadopoulos admitting he lied to the F.B.I. about his contacts with someone the F.B.I. suspected of being a Russian operative to cover for President Trump.mark mazzettiBut the worst-case scenario is that they are lying to protect something big. They were so concerned about what’s at the bottom of this story that they had to lie to keep investigators from getting there. That’s been one of the enduring mysteries of this entire story. Was there a grand conspiracy, or does this all add up to small, individual acts, individual contacts with Russians, individual business deals gone bad that individual people were trying to lie to cover up their own role? The fact that we don’t know where Mueller is going and Mueller only reveals his strategy in individual indictments means that we’re still left with these kinds of questions.michael barbaroAnd in this latest indictment, we’ve learned that Roger Stone, who has not been taken very seriously all this time, now seems to represent something quite important in all of this.mark mazzettiYes. In many ways, Roger Stone was this kind of cartoonish figure. If this were a whodunit, he’d be the obvious suspect that a reader would have long ago dismissed because he’s too obvious. And yet, here’s Roger Stone being charged with very serious crimes. And for the first time, we see Mueller show his hand that there really was this direct link between the Trump campaign and WikiLeaks. But I think the bigger point is the question of how directly the Trump campaign officials were working with the original source of the information, and that is the Russian government. WikiLeaks was a pass-through here. The Russian government, Russian hackers gave it to WikiLeaks to distribute. The real question at the end of the day is not the communications necessarily with WikiLeaks, but whether there was foreknowledge about what Russia was doing and any direct communication with the Russians about their campaign to sabotage Hillary Clinton’s political future.michael barbaroMark, thank you very much.mark mazzettiThank you.michael barbaroWe’ll be right back.archived recording (president trump)Thank you very much. My fellow Americans, I am very proud to announce today that we have reached a deal to end the shutdown and reopen the federal government. [APPLAUSE]michael barbaroOn Friday afternoon, just hours after the F.B.I. raid of Roger Stone’s home, President Trump walked into the Rose Garden of the White House and announced victoriously that he was temporarily ending the shutdown with no agreement from the Democrats to fund his border wall.archived recording (president trump)I want to thank all of the incredible federal workers and their amazing families —michael barbaroThe announcement came a day after two bills to reopen the government — one sponsored by Republicans, the other by Democrats — failed to pass in the Senate, and as frustration over the shutdown began to boil over in highly public and disruptive ways.archived recordingThey’re both clowns. Both sides should sit down and make it happen, including our president, including Pelosi. It’s ridiculous. It’s not fair. It’s not T.S.A.‘s fault that they’re not getting paid and stuff. It’s the government’s fault. So the government should get it together.michael barbaroBy Friday, so many air traffic controllers had called in sick that the Federal Aviation Administration grounded flights across the Northeast. Hundreds of workers at the IRS refused to show up for work, and the director of the F.B.I., Christopher Wray, had released a public message to his employees.archived recording (christopher wray)Hi, everyone. We’re now five weeks and two missed paychecks into this mess, and I wanted to touch base with all of you again. Making some people stay home when they don’t want to and making others show up without pay — it’s mind-boggling, it’s short-sighted and it’s unfair. It takes a lot to get me angry, but I’m about as angry as I’ve been in a long, long time.michael barbaroUnity among congressional Republicans, which had held for a month, began to collapse, with Republican senators, including majority leader Mitch McConnell, telling Vice President Mike Pence that the president’s shutdown strategy was not working and needed to end immediately. In his speech, the president, who has made the $5.7 billion in funding for his wall a non-negotiable condition for ending the shutdown, and who repeatedly rejected Democratic proposals to reopen the government while negotiations continue, ultimately did just that, restoring government to normal function for the next three weeks and promising to quickly pay back federal workers who have missed paychecks since the shutdown began. But —archived recording (president trump)If we don’t get a fair deal from Congress, the government will either shut down on February 15 again, or I will use the powers afforded to me under the laws and the Constitution of the United States to address this emergency.michael barbaroDemocrats and Republicans will enter formal negotiations this week to see if they can find a compromise on border security funding and on what constitutes a wall, a definition that is evolving for the president himself.archived recording (president trump)We do not need 2,000 miles of concrete wall from sea to shining sea. We never did. We never proposed that. We never wanted that, because we have barriers at the border where natural structures are as good as anything that we can build. They’re already there. They’ve been there for millions of years.michael barbaroThat change in language and the decision to reopen the government with no funding for the wall drew condemnation from conservatives like Ann Coulter, who many believe helped push the president into a shutdown in the first place. “Good news for George Herbert Walker Bush,” Coulter wrote on Twitter. “As of today, he is no longer the biggest wimp to ever serve as president of the United States.” That’s it for The Daily. I’m Michael Barbaro. See you tomorrow.Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Via Apple Podcasts | Via RadioPublic | Via StitcherThe special counsel’s indictment of Roger J. Stone Jr. contains details as over the top as Mr. Stone himself, revealing, for instance, that he encouraged an associate to use a tactic straight from “The Godfather.” But the indictment — which shows the most direct link yet between the Trump campaign and WikiLeaks — is wholly serious.On today’s episode:Mark Mazzetti, a Washington investigative correspondent for The New York Times.Background reading:According to the indictment, a top Trump campaign official “was directed” by an unidentified person to dispatch Mr. Stone to get information from WikiLeaks about the thousands of hacked Democratic emails. Mr. Stone has tried to write himself into history since he worked on the re-election campaign of President Richard M. Nixon. After his arrest by the F.B.I. on Friday, he found himself where he has always wanted to be: center stage.Here’s what we learned from the indictment and what it tells us about “collusion.”Russian hackersstole Democratic emailsand sent emails toreleased thousands of hacked emails during 2016presidentialcampaignWikiLeaksled by Julian Assangeclaimed to Trumpcampaign that he had a backchannel tocommunicated directly with two Trump advisers over Twittereldestson oflongtime adviser toDonald J. TrumpRoger J.Stone Jr.Donald Trump Jr.asked Stone aboutAssange’s plancampaignchairman forStephen K. BannonRussian hackersstole Democratic emailsand sent emails toreleased thousands of hacked emailsduring 2016 presidential campaignWikiLeaksled by Julian Assangeclaimed to Trumpcampaign that he had a backchannel tocommunicated directly with two Trump advisers over Twittereldestson oflongtime adviser toRoger J.Stone Jr.Donald J. TrumpDonald Trump Jr.asked Stone aboutAssange’s plancampaignchairman forStephen K. BannonRussian hackersstole Democratic emailsand sent emails toreleased thousandsof hacked emailsduring 2016 presidentialcampaignWikiLeaksled by Julian Assangeclaimed to Trumpcampaign that he had a backchannel tocommunicated directly with two Trump advisers over Twittereldestson oflongtime adviser toDonald Trump Jr.Roger J.Stone Jr.Donald J. Trumpasked Stone aboutAssange’s plancampaignchairman forStephen K. BannonBy The New York TimesTune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Follow Michael Barbaro on Twitter: @mikiebarb. And if you’re interested in advertising with “The Daily,” write to us at thedaily-ads@nytimes.com.Mark Mazzetti contributed reporting.“The Story of Roger Stone and WikiLeaks” was produced by Theo Balcomb, Paige Cowett, Jonathan Wolfe and Alexandra Leigh Young, with help from Jessica Cheung and Michael Simon Johnson, and edited by Lisa Tobin.“The Daily” is produced by Theo Balcomb, Annie Brown, Jessica Cheung, Lynsea Garrison, Michael Simon Johnson, Andy Mills, Neena Pathak, Rachel Quester, Ike Sriskandarajah, Clare Toeniskoetter, Jonathan Wolfe and Alexandra Leigh Young, and edited by Larissa Anderson, Paige Cowett and Wendy Dorr. Lisa Tobin is our executive producer. Samantha Henig is our editorial director. Brad Fisher is our technical manager. Chris Wood is our sound engineer. Our theme music is by Jim Brunberg and Ben Landsverk of Wonderly.

Supported byThe network must be secure enough for the innovations it promises.By Tom WheelerMr. Wheeler is a former chairman of the Federal Communications Commission.The Trump administration’s so-called “race” with China to build new fifth-generation (5G) wireless networks is speeding toward a network vulnerable to Chinese (and other) cyberattacks. So far, the Trump administration has focused on blocking Chinese companies from being a part of the network, but these efforts are far from sufficient. We cannot allow the hype about 5G to overshadow the absolute necessity that it be secure.Our current wireless networks are fourth-generation, or 4G. It was 4G that gave us the smartphone. Reaching the next level of mobile services, however, requires increased speed on the network. Fifth-generation networks are designed to be 10 to 100 times faster than today’s typical wireless connection with much lower latency (response time). These speeds will open up all kinds of new functional possibilities. Those new functions, in turn, will attract cyberintrusions just like honey attracts a bear.Some envision 5G as a kind of “wireless fiber” for the delivery of television and internet much like a cable system does today. Iranians hacking the delivery of “Game of Thrones” isn’t good, but the real transformational promise of 5G goes far beyond wireless cable and its security is much more critical.The most exciting part of the 5G future is how its speed will change the very nature of the internet. Thus far, the internet has been all about transporting data from point A to point B. Today’s internet-connected car may be able to get driving directions sent to it, but it is essentially the same as getting email: the one-way transportation of pre-existing information. The autonomous car is something vastly different, in which the 5G network allows computers to orchestrate a flood of information from multitudes of input sensors for real time, on-the-fly decision-making. It is estimated that the data output of a single autonomous vehicle in one day will be equal to today’s daily data output of three thousand people.Leadership in 5G technology is not just about building a network, but also about whether that network will be secure enough for the innovations it promises. And the 5G “race” is more complex and dangerous than industry and the Trump administration portray. When 5G enables autonomous vehicles, do we want those cars and trucks crashing into each other because the Russians hacked the network? If 5G will be the backbone of breakthroughs such as remote surgery, should that network be vulnerable to the North Koreans breaking into a surgical procedure? Innovators, investors and users need confidence in the network’s cybersecurity if its much-heralded promise is to be realized.“It is imperative that America be first in fifth-generation (5G) wireless technologies,” President Trump wrote in an October Presidential Memorandum of instructions to federal agencies. While the administration, especially the Trump Federal Communications Commission (F.C.C.), makes much of how the 5G “race” with China is a matter of national security, not enough effort is being put into the security of the network itself. Nowhere in the president’s directive, for instance, was there a word about protecting the cybersecurity of the new network.As the President’s National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee told him in November, “the cybersecurity threat now poses an existential threat to the future of the Nation.” Last January, the brightest technical minds in the intelligence community, working with the White House National Security Council (N.S.C.), warned of the 5G cybersecurity threat. When the proposed solutions included security through a federally-owned network backbone, the wireless industry screamed in protest. The chairman of the Trump F.C.C. quickly echoed the industry line that “the market, not government, is best positioned to drive innovation and leadership.” Government ownership may not be practicable, but the concerns in the N.S.C. report have been dismissed too readily.Worse than ignoring the warnings, the Trump administration has repealed existing protections. Shortly after taking office, the Trump F.C.C. removed a requirement imposed by the Obama F.C.C. that the 5G technical standard must be designed from the outset to withstand cyberattacks. For the first time in history, cybersecurity was being required as a forethought in the design of a new network standard — until the Trump F.C.C. repealed it. The Trump F.C.C. also canceled a formal inquiry seeking input from the country’s best technical minds about 5G security, retracted an Obama-era F.C.C. white paper about reducing cyberthreats, and questioned whether the agency had any responsibility for the cybersecurity of the networks they are entrusted with overseeing.The simple fact is that our wireless networks are not as secure as they could be because they weren’t designed to withstand the kinds of cyberattacks that are now common. This isn’t the fault of the companies that built the networks, but a reflection that when the standards for the current fourth-generation (4G) technology were set years ago, cyberattacks were not a front-and-center concern.The Trump administration has been told that cybersecurity is an “existential risk.” The new Congress should use its oversight power to explore just why the administration has failed to protect against that risk, especially when it comes to the next generation of networks.Tom Wheeler, the chairman of the Federal Communications Commission from 2013 to 2017, is a visiting fellow at the Brookings Institution and a fellow at the Harvard Kennedy School. His new book, “From Gutenberg to Google: The History of Our Future,” will be published in February.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported byBy Mark Mazzetti, Eileen Sullivan and Maggie HabermanWASHINGTON — The special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, revealed on Friday the most direct link yet between parallel efforts by the Trump campaign and WikiLeaks to damage Hillary Clinton during the 2016 election using Democratic Party material stolen by Russians.A top Trump campaign official dispatched Roger J. Stone Jr., a longtime adviser to President Trump, to get information from WikiLeaks about the thousands of hacked Democratic emails, according to an indictment. The effort began weeks after Democratic officials publicly accused Russian intelligence operatives of the theft, which was part of Moscow’s broad campaign to sabotage the 2016 presidential race.The indictment made no mention of whether Mr. Trump played a role in the coordination, though Mr. Mueller did leave a curious clue about how high in the campaign the effort reached: A senior campaign official “was directed” by an unnamed person to contact Mr. Stone about additional WikiLeaks releases that might damage the Clinton campaign, according to the court document.In an indictment filled with colorful details about clandestine meetings, angry texts — even a reference to “The Godfather: Part II” — Mr. Stone was charged with seven counts, including obstruction, making false statements and witness tampering. Mr. Mueller did not say that Mr. Stone’s interactions with WikiLeaks were illegal, nor that the Trump campaign engaged in a criminal conspiracy with the organization.[Read the indictment.]F.B.I. agents arrested Mr. Stone before dawn, appearing at his Fort Lauderdale, Fla., home with ballistic vests and guns drawn. Agents typically use those tactics as a precaution to secure possible evidence and protect themselves in case a suspect fights arrest. Prosecutors sealed details of the case because they feared that public disclosure would increase the risk of Mr. Stone fleeing or destroying or tampering with evidence, according to court documents.Russian hackersstole Democratic emailsand sent emails toreleased thousands of hacked emails during 2016presidentialcampaignWikiLeaksled by Julian Assangeclaimed to Trumpcampaign that he had a backchannel tocommunicated directly with two Trump advisers over Twittereldestson oflongtime adviser toDonald J. TrumpRoger J.Stone Jr.Donald Trump Jr.asked Stone aboutAssange’s plancampaignchairman forStephen K. BannonRussian hackersstole Democratic emailsand sent emails toreleased thousands of hacked emailsduring 2016 presidential campaignWikiLeaksled by Julian Assangeclaimed to Trumpcampaign that he had a backchannel tocommunicated directly with two Trump advisers over Twittereldestson oflongtime adviser toRoger J.Stone Jr.Donald J. TrumpDonald Trump Jr.asked Stone aboutAssange’s plancampaignchairman forStephen K. BannonRussian hackersstole Democratic emailsand sent emails toreleased thousandsof hacked emailsduring 2016 presidentialcampaignWikiLeaksled by Julian Assangeclaimed to Trumpcampaign that he had a backchannel tocommunicated directly with two Trump advisers over Twittereldestson oflongtime adviser toDonald Trump Jr.Roger J.Stone Jr.Donald J. Trumpasked Stone aboutAssange’s plancampaignchairman forStephen K. BannonBy The New York TimesF.B.I. agents were also seen carting hard drives and other evidence from Mr. Stone’s apartment in Harlem, and his recording studio in South Florida was also raided.Mr. Stone appeared briefly on Friday morning in Federal District Court in Fort Lauderdale, his ankles and waist shackled in front of a packed courtroom. A man known for his dapper wardrobe was dressed simply in a navy blue cotton polo shirt, bluejeans and his trademark round, black-rimmed glasses.[Read more about Roger Stone, a self-described dirty trickster.]Afterward, in a theatrical appearance outside the courthouse, Mr. Stone vowed to beat what he called politically motivated charges. “There is no circumstance whatsoever under which I will bear false witness against the president, nor will I make up lies to ease the pressure on myself,” he said.“I look forward to being fully and completely vindicated,” he added, then flashed twin V-for-victory hand signs reminiscent of his political hero, former President Richard M. Nixon. In a brief interview later, Mr. Stone said he will plead not guilty, and people close to him have predicted that Mr. Trump could pardon Mr. Stone should he be convicted of any of the charges.[Transcript: Read Mr. Stone’s statement responding to his arrest.] The indictment is the first in months by Mr. Mueller, who is investigating Russia’s interference in the 2016 election and possible coordination with Trump associates. Citing details in emails and other forms of communications, the indictment suggested that Mr. Trump’s campaign knew about additional stolen emails before they were released and asked Mr. Stone to find out about them.According to the indictment, between June and July 2016, Mr. Stone told “senior Trump campaign officials” about the stolen emails in WikiLeaks’ possession that could be damaging to Mrs. Clinton. On July 22 that year, WikiLeaks released its first batch of Democratic emails. After that, according to the indictment, the Trump campaign sought more.“A senior Trump campaign official was directed to contact Stone about any additional releases and what other damaging information Organization 1 had regarding the Clinton campaign,” the indictment said, referring to WikiLeaks.The White House press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, sought to broadly distance Mr. Trump from the charges. “The charges brought against Mr. Stone have nothing to do with the president,” she told CNN. Asked whether he directed a campaign aide to contact Mr. Stone about the WikiLeaks emails, she repeated that the charges did not involve Mr. Trump.A self-described dirty trickster, Mr. Stone began his career as a Nixon campaign aide and has a tattoo of Nixon on his back. He has spent decades plying the political dark arts — including scandal-mongering — to help influence American election campaigns, and has long maintained that he had no connection to Russia’s attempts to disrupt the 2016 presidential election.He sometimes seemed to taunt American law enforcement agencies, daring them to find hard evidence to link him to Moscow’s interference; it is illegal for a political campaign to accept foreign aid. His brash behavior made him less of a subject of news media scrutiny than other current and former aides to President Trump — like the character in a whodunit whom readers immediately dismiss as too obvious to have committed the crime.The indictment does not mention whether Mr. Stone or any other Trump associate knew about the Russian operatives’ plans before they hacked the Democrats.In social media posts and interviews during the 2016 presidential race, Mr. Stone indicated that he had advance knowledge that a trove of information damaging to Mrs. Clinton’s campaign might be about to spill into public view, and even suggested that he had personally spoken to the WikiLeaks founder, Julian Assange.Mr. Stone has changed his story as investigators closed in, saying that he was not actually speaking to Mr. Assange and that he had no direct knowledge that Russians were responsible for the Democratic hacking. Still, it was revealed last year that, in the weeks before the election, Mr. Stone was messaging on Twitter with Guccifer 2.0, a pseudonym used by one or more operatives in the Russian intelligence scheme to steal the emails and funnel them to WikiLeaks.Three senior Trump campaign officials told Mr. Mueller’s team that Mr. Stone created the impression that he was a conduit for inside information from WikiLeaks, according to people familiar with their witness interviews. One of them told investigators that Mr. Stone not only seemed to predict WikiLeaks’ actions, but also that he took credit afterward for the timing of its disclosures that damaged Mrs. Clinton’s candidacy.In October 2016, Mr. Stone exchanged emails with Stephen K. Bannon, then the chief executive of Mr. Trump’s campaign. In one exchange, Mr. Stone wrote that more WikiLeaks disclosures were forthcoming, “a load every week going forward,” according to the indictment. Mr. Bannon appears to be the official described in the court document as “the high-ranking Trump Campaign official,” based on previous disclosures about the email exchange.Tuesday, October 4, 2016FROM: Steve Bannon TO: Roger StoneEMAIL: What was that this morning???Tuesday, October 4, 2016 FROM: Roger StoneTO: Steve BannonEMAIL: Fear. Serious security concern. He thinks they are going to kill him and the London police are standing done.However —a load every week going forward.Roger stoneTuesday, October 4, 2016FROM: Steve BannonTO: Roger StoneEMAIL:He didn’t cut deal w/ clintons???A day before Mr. Stone and Mr. Bannon emailed about WikiLeaks, Donald Trump Jr. exchanged messages on Twitter with the WikiLeaks account and asked, “What’s behind this Wednesday leak I keep reading about.”At the end of that week, on Oct. 7, WikiLeaks released more than 6,000 emails related to John D. Podesta, the chairman of the Clinton campaign. The release, 30 minutes after The Washington Post published a recording of Mr. Trump bragging about assaulting women, appeared aimed at redirecting negative attention from Mr. Trump to the Clinton campaign.The special counsel’s investigators spent months encircling Mr. Stone, and the indictment unsealed on Friday detailed how he relied on several longtime associates to get information about the timing and content of WikiLeaks’ document releases in the months before the election.Six Trump advisers or officials have been charged by the special counsel.They pored over his testimony to the House Intelligence Committee, which is conducting its own investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election. The indictment documented numerous lies to lawmakers about his efforts to set up a back channel to WikiLeaks, and about his efforts to pressure other witnesses to lie.transcriptHosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Theo Balcomb, Paige Cowett, Jonathan Wolfe and Alexandra Leigh Young, and edited by Lisa TobinThe special counsel’s indictment of the longtime Trump adviser establishes a direct connection between WikiLeaks and the president’s campaign.michael barbaroFrom The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is The Daily. Today: The special counsel’s indictment of Roger Stone contains details as over-the-top as Stone himself, including encouraging an associate to use a tactic straight from “The Godfather” films. But the indictment itself is quite serious in finally making a link between the Trump campaign and WikiLeaks. It’s Monday, January 28. [POUNDING ON DOOR]archived recordingF.B.I.! Open the door!archived recording (roger stone)Twenty-nine F.B.I. agents showed up at my home, pounded on the door. [POUNDING ON DOOR]archived recordingF.B.I.!archived recording (roger stone)I opened the door to pointed automatic weapons. I was handcuffed. There were —archived recordingWe have some major breaking news in the Mueller investigation. Roger Stone — you see him right there — President Trump’s longtime political adviser, former campaign aide, has been arrested in Florida. Charged with seven federal felonies, obstruction of an official proceeding, five counts of making false statements and one count of witness tampering.archived recording (sarah huckabee sanders)This has nothing to do with the president, has nothing to do with the White House, and beyond that, I’m not going to get into the back and forth.archived recordingHave you spoken to the president?archived recording (roger stone)There is no circumstance whatsoever under which I will bear false witness against the president, nor will I make up lies to ease the pressure on myself. I look forward to being fully and completely vindicated.michael barbaroSo, Mark Mazzetti, what do we need to know about who Roger Stone is?mark mazzettiRoger Stone is a legendary Republican operative who, from the earliest days of his career, has plied the dark arts of scandal-mongering and dirty tricks in aid of political campaigns.archived recordingAre you telling me that that was a lie? Roger Stone is a trickster. Roger Stone is a shady character, O.K.? I know Roger Stone, and you know, he worked for Nixon. He famously tattooed his hero on his back. And who among us can say that? The questionable consultant’s resume is filled with work for Republican stars — Nixon, Reagan, Bush senior.mark mazzettiHe is someone who very proudly talks about how he tries to plant stories with the press, someone who tries to dig up any kind of personal dirt about a candidate in order to help the other side.archived recording (roger stone)I’m certainly guilty of bluffing and posturing and punking the Democrats. Unless they pass some law against bull-bull-[BLEEP]-ing-ing and I missed it, I’m engaging in tradecraft. It’s politics. I’m sure it’s driving the Democrats crazy, but there’s nothing illegal about it.mark mazzettiSo this is someone who — well, for many people who hate politics, they would hate someone like Roger Stone.archived recording (roger stone)The truth is, Jimmy Carter’s middle name was not Hussein. A very substantial number of people wonder, because of the policies of this administration, about whether the president is a Muslim. This is not going to hurt Trump, and it’s not going to hurt Carson.archived recordingThey may wonder, but should a presidential candidate like Trump be saying that, or at least condoning it with his silence?archived recording (roger stone)I don’t think he commented either way.mark mazzettiHe goes on television in strange outfits, he gives interviews from his pool and clearly, in many cases, doesn’t take himself too seriously.michael barbaroSo he’s kind of a sideshow.mark mazzettiExcept he’s someone who Donald Trump has taken seriously for a long time.archived recording (roger stone)He’s a regular guy. You can talk to him like a regular person. There’s nothing formal or stilted about him, and he’s funny. He’s got a great self-deprecating wit. He’s just fun to be with.mark mazzettiHe’s been this sort of informal adviser to Trump over decades, and someone who, long, long before anyone took seriously the idea of Donald Trump being the president of the United States, Roger Stone was pushing this idea.archived recording (roger stone)It was not until 1987, really, late ‘87, that I began thinking about him as a presidential candidate.mark mazzettiAlthough it has often been a contentious relationship.archived recording (roger stone)Yeah, I think we have a complicated relationship. But first of all, recognize, I’m a Trump loyalist. Even when he’s wrong, I’ll be there.mark mazzettiThey’ve been at odds at times. He’s someone who didn’t last very long on the Trump campaign. He started out as an official campaign adviser, but was fired from the campaign pretty quickly.archived recordingAnd more turmoil for Trump — a top longtime associate both from his business world and in the political realm, Roger Stone is out tonight. Dispute about whether he resigned or was fired. Trump’s campaign says Stone was fired because he was using the campaign to seek publicity for himself.archived recording (roger stone)I have no interest in going back. Although I strongly support Trump, we have managerial differences. And meanwhile, I’m just making the very best case for him in public that I can, because I do think he has what it takes.michael barbaroAnd insofar as he was involved in the campaign, what exactly was his role as an informal adviser? What did that amount to?mark mazzettiHe was the classic late-night phone call person to listen to what Trump was thinking. He was the confidant of then-candidate Trump, talking to him by phone, being a sort of back channel of advice outside official campaign communications. You didn’t always know that Roger Stone was there, because he did have this behind-the-scenes role. But it was pretty apparent to people close to Trump that Roger Stone had this outsized influence over Trump.archived recordingIt seems to me there’s more than meets the eye here with Roger Stone parting company from the Trump campaign, coming on my program and others and giving the big Trump pitch.archived recording (roger stone)You media types are so conspiratorial. [LAUGHTER]archived recordingNo, no, the Stone-Trump types I think are the conspiratorial.archived recording (roger stone)I’m like —mark mazzettiSo he was behind the scenes until he wasn’t. In August of 2016, a few months before the election, Roger Stone sent a very cryptic tweet about Podesta.archived recordingRoger Stone tweeted that it would soon be, quote, “Podesta’s time in the barrel.”mark mazzettiAnd he said it will soon be his time in the barrel. Now Podesta was John Podesta, the campaign chairman for Hillary Clinton. And no one really knew what that meant until a few months later in October. A few weeks before the election, he sent out another tweet. I think it said, “On Wednesday, Hillary Clinton is done. #WikiLeaks.”archived recordingRoger Stone writes, “Thursday, October 6, Julian Assange will deliver a devastating expose on Hillary at a time of his choosing. I stand by my prediction. #HandcuffsForHillary.”mark mazzettiAnd then —archived recordingWe need to talk about these hacked emails.mark mazzettiThe Podesta emails spill out a few days later.archived recordingWikiLeaks released more than 2,000 emails. They claim they came from her campaign chairman, John Podesta, and other staffers. The leak revealed transcripts from some of Clinton’s paid Wall Street speeches. This is the first time that we’re actually getting a look at these Wall Street speeches. What you see is that her own words really hit on her own perceived weaknesses, particularly around relatability and trust. You see why she really wasn’t in a hurry to release these, as it really highlights a lot of concerns that voters have about her.mark mazzettiAnd so this is again Roger Stone creating this image that he had a direct channel to WikiLeaks and knew what the information was going to be before it became public.michael barbaroRight. And if I remember correctly, one of those WikiLeaks dumps of emails was right around the time of the “Access Hollywood” tape being published.archived recording (john podesta)October 7, the “Access Hollywood” tape comes out. One hour later, WikiLeaks starts dropping my emails into the public. One could say that those things might not have been a coincidence.michael barbaroWhich was interesting timing.mark mazzettiWithin hours. And of course, that’s very fortuitous timing if you’re candidate Trump. Very quickly, a lot of the media started focusing on the Podesta emails rather than this explosive story about the “Access Hollywood” tape.michael barbaroSo at this point, justifiably, everyone is starting to wonder, does Roger Stone, this informal adviser to the president who is in touch with the campaign, does he have inside knowledge of what’s going on at WikiLeaks? Is he coordinating with this organization?mark mazzettiYes, and remember, Roger Stone has built a career on creating an image that he does have great access.archived recording (roger stone)I actually have communicated with Assange. I believe the next tranche of his documents pertain to the Clinton Foundation.mark mazzettiHe does have insight that others don’t.archived recording (roger stone)I think that Assange is going to be very influential in this election, because he’s going to be educating the American people about the Clintons.mark mazzettiOnce the Russia investigation heats up, though, he has to reverse course.archived recording (roger stone)I had no advance notice of the content source or the exact disclosure time of the WikiLeaks disclosures. Assange himself has said so. In fact, Assange has said in his own tweets and in interviews that Roger Stone never predicted anything that I hadn’t already said in public.mark mazzettiHe has to paint himself as someone who didn’t have that knowledge, who didn’t have any insight, because that was something that could potentially put him in real legal jeopardy.michael barbaroSo what do we learn from this indictment last week about what was really going on here?mark mazzettiSo what we learned on Friday is that Roger Stone in fact did have insights into what WikiLeaks was doing. He made extensive efforts to find out what Julian Assange was planning. And we find out that he was directed by people inside the campaign to go find out what WikiLeaks was doing. So we really, for the first time, have a sense that there was a link between WikiLeaks’s efforts to damage Hillary Clinton and the Trump campaign’s efforts to damage Hillary Clinton. And that link was Roger Stone. And something else that should not be lost in all this is that all of this was happening months after it was first revealed that the Russian government was behind this operation to hack the Democratic servers and put the information out for WikiLeaks.michael barbaroAnd that’s significant because it’s one thing to be coordinating with WikiLeaks when no one quite knows how it got those internal Clinton emails. It’s another to be coordinating with WikiLeaks once it’s understood that the emails it’s disseminating were stolen by Russia. It seems to elevate this above wanting negative information about your opponent out in the world.mark mazzettiThat’s right. All of this was done while it was well known that the Russians were behind this operation.michael barbaroSo do we know who on the campaign was talking to Roger Stone and encouraging him to keep communicating with WikiLeaks and find out when their leaks would occur?mark mazzettiThat’s where it becomes really interesting. The Times reported a few months ago that Steve Bannon, who was the campaign chairman at the end, was in contact with Roger Stone about this. In early October, Stone writes Steve Bannon that WikiLeaks would release, quote, “a load every week going forward.” He separately writes to a supporter involved in the Trump campaign, quote, “spoke to my friend in London last night. The payload is still coming.”michael barbaroFriend in London presumably meaning Julian Assange?mark mazzettiRight. But the Mueller indictment has a very tantalizing detail.michael barbaroWhat’s that?mark mazzettiThe indictment said that a senior campaign official, quote, was directed by someone to contact Stone about additional WikiLeaks releases. There’s a very odd use of the passive voice that you would not expect in an indictment written by lawyers with Ivy League educations. The indictment does not say who it was that directed the senior campaign official. Of course, it’s led to speculation that that person could only be Donald Trump. We don’t know.michael barbaroEverything you’re describing here about Roger Stone’s communications with the campaign and Roger Stone’s communications with WikiLeaks — it sounds quite nefarious, but I wonder if it is illegal. Is his communication with WikiLeaks what Roger Stone was indicted for?mark mazzettiNo. The charge is Stone lying to Congress about his interactions with WikiLeaks, trying to tamper with witness testimony and an overall charge of obstruction of justice. As for the witness tampering charge, that centers around Stone’s interactions with someone named Randy Credico, who is a longtime New York radio personality, on-again-off-again friend of Stone, and someone who did in fact seem to have direct connections to Julian Assange and WikiLeaks. And what the indictment details is that Roger Stone had several communications with Credico, trying to make sure that Credico told the same story to the House that Roger Stone had told, and even suggesting that he should pull a, quote, “Frank Pentangeli” before the committee.archived recordingDid you serve on the capital regime, Peter Clemenza, under Vito Corleone, also known as “the godfather“?mark mazzettiAnd that is a reference to a character in “The Godfather 2” who is called before Congress to testify about the mob and all of a sudden gets amnesia.archived recordingI ask you again, sir, here and now, under oath, were you at any time a member of a crime organization headed by Michael Corleone? I don’t know nothing about that! Oh. I was in the olive oil business with his father, but that was a long time ago. That’s all.michael barbaroAnd why isn’t Mueller going after Stone for anything other than the lying, for the actions he lied about?mark mazzettiIt’s hard to make a conspiracy case. The fact is that the emails appear to have been stolen before Roger Stone knew about them, so he didn’t seem to have participated in the theft. And he seemed to maybe be trafficking in information that was becoming public or was about to be public. And this is what his defenders and the president’s defenders have pointed out, that these are all crimes that happened after the fact. He is not being charged with something that’s at the bottom of this whole thing — collusion, conspiracy, et cetera. And this is what, of course, President Trump has fallen back on for some time.archived recordingThis is why this thing is so weird, strange. The crime is conspiracy to hack. Collusion is not a crime. It doesn’t exist. Now, conspiracy to defraud the government — you’re right. Conspiracy to hack, that is the crime. We don’t know whether — Now, did Donald Trump engage in a conspiracy to hack with the Russians? They’ve been going at it — the counterintelligence investigation came to the conclusion — no evidence.michael barbaroMark, it feels like time and time again, when it comes to the Mueller investigation, he and his prosecutors are charging people around the president with lying or tampering with a witness or doing something deceptive around their interactions with his own investigation, but not with actually colluding with Russia or coordinating with Russia or being involved in a conspiracy that involves Russia, which, of course, is what this investigation is really about. What do you make of that?mark mazzettiIf you want to look at it as a best-case scenario for President Trump, it’s that there’s no original crime here. There’s no collusion, there’s no conspiracy. They’ve been charged because they were just lying to Congress.archived recordingToday’s surprise guilty plea by Michael Cohen — Cohen said in federal court that he lied to Congress, he says, to support Mr. Trump’s timeline of a Moscow real estate deal.mark mazzettiLying to the F.B.I. Withholding evidence.archived recordingTonight, former Trump campaign aide George Papadopoulos admitting he lied to the F.B.I. about his contacts with someone the F.B.I. suspected of being a Russian operative to cover for President Trump.mark mazzettiBut the worst-case scenario is that they are lying to protect something big. They were so concerned about what’s at the bottom of this story that they had to lie to keep investigators from getting there. That’s been one of the enduring mysteries of this entire story. Was there a grand conspiracy, or does this all add up to small, individual acts, individual contacts with Russians, individual business deals gone bad that individual people were trying to lie to cover up their own role? The fact that we don’t know where Mueller is going and Mueller only reveals his strategy in individual indictments means that we’re still left with these kinds of questions.michael barbaroAnd in this latest indictment, we’ve learned that Roger Stone, who has not been taken very seriously all this time, now seems to represent something quite important in all of this.mark mazzettiYes. In many ways, Roger Stone was this kind of cartoonish figure. If this were a whodunit, he’d be the obvious suspect that a reader would have long ago dismissed because he’s too obvious. And yet, here’s Roger Stone being charged with very serious crimes. And for the first time, we see Mueller show his hand that there really was this direct link between the Trump campaign and WikiLeaks. But I think the bigger point is the question of how directly the Trump campaign officials were working with the original source of the information, and that is the Russian government. WikiLeaks was a pass-through here. The Russian government, Russian hackers gave it to WikiLeaks to distribute. The real question at the end of the day is not the communications necessarily with WikiLeaks, but whether there was foreknowledge about what Russia was doing and any direct communication with the Russians about their campaign to sabotage Hillary Clinton’s political future.michael barbaroMark, thank you very much.mark mazzettiThank you.michael barbaroWe’ll be right back.archived recording (president trump)Thank you very much. My fellow Americans, I am very proud to announce today that we have reached a deal to end the shutdown and reopen the federal government. [APPLAUSE]michael barbaroOn Friday afternoon, just hours after the F.B.I. raid of Roger Stone’s home, President Trump walked into the Rose Garden of the White House and announced victoriously that he was temporarily ending the shutdown with no agreement from the Democrats to fund his border wall.archived recording (president trump)I want to thank all of the incredible federal workers and their amazing families —michael barbaroThe announcement came a day after two bills to reopen the government — one sponsored by Republicans, the other by Democrats — failed to pass in the Senate, and as frustration over the shutdown began to boil over in highly public and disruptive ways.archived recordingThey’re both clowns. Both sides should sit down and make it happen, including our president, including Pelosi. It’s ridiculous. It’s not fair. It’s not T.S.A.‘s fault that they’re not getting paid and stuff. It’s the government’s fault. So the government should get it together.michael barbaroBy Friday, so many air traffic controllers had called in sick that the Federal Aviation Administration grounded flights across the Northeast. Hundreds of workers at the IRS refused to show up for work, and the director of the F.B.I., Christopher Wray, had released a public message to his employees.archived recording (christopher wray)Hi, everyone. We’re now five weeks and two missed paychecks into this mess, and I wanted to touch base with all of you again. Making some people stay home when they don’t want to and making others show up without pay — it’s mind-boggling, it’s short-sighted and it’s unfair. It takes a lot to get me angry, but I’m about as angry as I’ve been in a long, long time.michael barbaroUnity among congressional Republicans, which had held for a month, began to collapse, with Republican senators, including majority leader Mitch McConnell, telling Vice President Mike Pence that the president’s shutdown strategy was not working and needed to end immediately. In his speech, the president, who has made the $5.7 billion in funding for his wall a non-negotiable condition for ending the shutdown, and who repeatedly rejected Democratic proposals to reopen the government while negotiations continue, ultimately did just that, restoring government to normal function for the next three weeks and promising to quickly pay back federal workers who have missed paychecks since the shutdown began. But —archived recording (president trump)If we don’t get a fair deal from Congress, the government will either shut down on February 15 again, or I will use the powers afforded to me under the laws and the Constitution of the United States to address this emergency.michael barbaroDemocrats and Republicans will enter formal negotiations this week to see if they can find a compromise on border security funding and on what constitutes a wall, a definition that is evolving for the president himself.archived recording (president trump)We do not need 2,000 miles of concrete wall from sea to shining sea. We never did. We never proposed that. We never wanted that, because we have barriers at the border where natural structures are as good as anything that we can build. They’re already there. They’ve been there for millions of years.michael barbaroThat change in language and the decision to reopen the government with no funding for the wall drew condemnation from conservatives like Ann Coulter, who many believe helped push the president into a shutdown in the first place. “Good news for George Herbert Walker Bush,” Coulter wrote on Twitter. “As of today, he is no longer the biggest wimp to ever serve as president of the United States.” That’s it for The Daily. I’m Michael Barbaro. See you tomorrow.He exchanged heated texts with Randy Credico, a New York radio host with his own contacts with WikiLeaks, pressuring Mr. Credico to lie to the Intelligence Committee so that his story would line up with Mr. Stone’s.Mr. Stone told Mr. Credico he should “do a ‘Frank Pentangeli’” before the House committee, the indictment said, a reference to a “Godfather” character who lies to Congress about his interactions with the Mafia.The tumultuous relationship between Mr. Stone and Mr. Trump goes back decades, with Mr. Stone serving as an informal adviser as Mr. Trump considered running for president several times.When Mr. Trump formally announced during the spring of 2015 that he was running for president, Mr. Stone was one of the first to join his campaign. Within months, however, the two had a public dispute and Mr. Stone left the team. But they have remained close, speaking often by telephone.On Friday, the day that Mr. Stone stood on the steps of a courthouse and pledged his enduring loyalty to the president, Mr. Trump bashed the investigation that had led armed federal agents to his friend’s house in the morning darkness.“Greatest Witch Hunt in the History of our Country!” he wrote on Twitter. “NO COLLUSION!”Charlie Savage and Michael S. Schmidt contributed reporting from Washington, and Jeenah Moon from New York.

Supported byBy Eileen Sullivan and Maggie HabermanWASHINGTON — President Trump’s personal lawyer Rudolph W. Giuliani backtracked on Thursday from a surprising assertion he had made a night earlier that left open the possibility that Trump campaign aides might have coordinated with Russia in its election interference in 2016.“There was no collusion by President Trump in any way, shape or form,” Mr. Giuliani said in a statement on Thursday, reiterating the president’s longstanding defense against accusations that his campaign secretly coordinated with Moscow to help swing the election. “Likewise, I have no knowledge of any collusion by any of the thousands of people who worked on the campaign.”He added, referring to discredited conspiracy theories that the president and his allies have long cited, “The only knowledge I have in this regard is the collusion of the Clinton campaign with Russia, which has so far been ignored.”Mr. Giuliani was seeking to clarify an interview on Wednesday night in which he stopped short of defending Trump campaign aides, drawing speculation that he might have inside knowledge of possible coordination with Russia.“I never said there was no collusion between the campaign or between people in the campaign,” he told CNN. He added: “I said the president of the United States. There is not a single bit of evidence the president of the United States committed the only crime you could commit here, conspired with the Russians to hack” the Democratic National Committee.[ Trump allies have repeatedly shifted their defense as evidence of contacts with Russians grew.]Mr. Giuliani’s backpedaling was the latest in a series of conflicting comments he has made about the investigation by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III. The evolution of his statements have suggested shifts in the president’s defense strategy, often following developments in the investigations. On Tuesday, prosecutors for the special counsel filed a 200-page, mostly redacted court document related to the case against Mr. Trump’s onetime campaign chairman, Paul Manafort. Among the little information that was not blacked out were details about his relationship with a Russian whom prosecutors have said has ties to Russian intelligence.The special counsel’s document was in response to a recent filing by Mr. Manafort’s legal team, which inadvertently disclosed that Mr. Manafort had provided his Russian associate with American polling data — details that offer the clearest example yet that the Trump campaign may have tried to coordinate with Russia before the 2016 election.Mr. Giuliani has previously denied that there was coordination by Trump campaign aides.“When I say the Trump campaign, I mean the upper levels of the Trump campaign,” Mr. Giuliani said during a July interview with Fox News. “I have no reason to believe anybody else did. The only ones I checked with obviously are the top four or five people.”Mr. Giuliani also went a bit further on the collusion defense, telling Fox, “Even if he did it, it’s not a crime.”Six Trump advisers or officials have been charged by the special counsel.The president agreed with him in a subsequent Twitter post, and added that Hillary Clinton, his former Democratic rival, was the one who was doing the colluding.Mr. Trump has long maintained that his campaign never aided Russia’s meddling, even as the special counsel inquiry has revealed communications between Russians and some Trump campaign aides.While the word “collusion” has no defined legal meaning, in plain English, it means working together, typically in secret, to do something illicit. And whether Mr. Trump knew during the campaign of any Russian attempts to disrupt the election has been a central question in the investigation that started in the summer of 2016.Mr. Trump’s former personal lawyer, Michael D. Cohen, was prepared to tell prosecutors that Mr. Trump knew about a June 2016 meeting in Trump Tower that was arranged so campaign officials could get damaging information on Mrs. Clinton from Russians.The president and his lawyers have denied that Mr. Trump had any knowledge of the meeting until July 2017, when The New York Times was preparing to publish an article about it.At the time, when the White House was scrambling to prepare a statement about the Trump Tower meeting in response to The Times’s article, Mr. Trump met with President Vladimir V. Putin for more than two hours in Hamburg, Germany, where they were attending an economic summit meeting. Later that day, Mr. Trump sought out the Russian leader during a summit meeting dinner. Only interpreters, the secretary of state at the time, Rex W. Tillerson, and Russia’s foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, were in the first meeting with Mr. Trump and Mr. Putin. Afterward, Mr. Trump took his interpreter’s notes and told the interpreter not to tell anyone what was discussed. No American officials were present for the second encounter during the dinner.The following day, while Mr. Trump traveled back to Washington on Air Force One, he called a Times reporter to say that the Russians had been falsely accused by American intelligence agencies of hacking during the campaign. The president also huddled with his aides to draft a statement in response to the article about the Trump Tower meeting and personally dictated a misleading account that the meeting was about Russian adoptions. He did not admit that the meeting was arranged to address Russia’s offer to help his campaign, which emails later obtained by The Times confirmed.Earlier this week, senators questioned Mr. Trump’s nominee to be the next attorney general, William P. Barr, about how the Justice Department would handle a hypothetical report from Mr. Mueller. That there will be such a report at the end of the special counsel’s investigation is just speculation, but Mr. Barr was pressed on whether he would share the report with Congress and the public and whether what he shared would be an altered version of the original.The questioning drew on comments Mr. Giuliani had previously made about how the president might invoke executive privilege to prevent the report from going to Congress, or that the White House might edit the report before sending it to lawmakers “so we can correct it if they’re wrong.”Mr. Barr assured senators on Tuesday that the White House would not be correcting the report before releasing it. And Mr. Giuliani said his comments Wednesday on CNN had not been an effort to address a possible Mueller report detailing evidence of cooperation between Trump campaign aides and Russia.“I have no knowledge of collusion involving the campaign, nor does the president,” Mr. Giuliani told The Times on Thursday. “However, I only represent the president, and that’s all I can speak for.”Eileen Sullivan reported from Washington, and Maggie Haberman from New York. Noah Weiland and Sharon LaFraniere contributed reporting.

Supported byBy Peter BakerWASHINGTON — The first time they met was in Germany. President Trump took his interpreter’s notes afterward and ordered him not to disclose what he heard to anyone. Later that night, at a dinner, Mr. Trump pulled up a seat next to President Vladimir V. Putin to talk without any American witnesses at all.Their third encounter was in Vietnam when Mr. Trump seemed to take Mr. Putin’s word that he had not interfered in American elections. A formal summit meeting followed in Helsinki, Finland, where the two leaders kicked out everyone but the interpreters. Most recently, they chatted in Buenos Aires after Mr. Trump said they would not meet because of Russian aggression.Mr. Trump has adamantly insisted there was “no collusion” with Russia during his 2016 presidential campaign. But each of the five times he has met with Mr. Putin since taking office, he has fueled suspicions about their relationship. The unusually secretive way he has handled these meetings has left many in his own administration guessing what happened and piqued the interest of investigators.“What’s disconcerting is the desire to hide information from your own team,” said Andrew S. Weiss, who was a Russia adviser to President Bill Clinton. “The fact that Trump didn’t want the State Department or members of the White House team to know what he was talking with Putin about suggests it was not about advancing our country’s national interest but something more problematic.”The mystery surrounding the meetings seems to have drawn attention from the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, who is examining ties between the president and Russia. And it has generated a furor in Congress, where Democrats are pushing to subpoena the notes of the president’s interpreters or perhaps the interpreters themselves.Veterans of past administrations could not recall a precedent for a president meeting alone with an adversary and keeping so many of his own advisers from being briefed on what was said. When they meet with foreign leaders, presidents typically want at least one aide in the room — not just an interpreter — to avoid misunderstandings later. Memorandums of conversation, called Memcons, are drafted and details are shared with officials who have reasons to know what was said.“All five of the presidents whom I worked for, Republicans and Democrats, wanted a word-for-word set of notes, if only to protect the integrity of the American side of the conversation against later manipulation by the Soviets or the Russians,” said Victoria J. Nuland, a career diplomat who worked for Dick Cheney and Hillary Clinton, among others.That would seem an even greater imperative for Mr. Trump, who knew there were questions about his relationship with Mr. Putin given that American intelligence agencies concluded that Moscow tried to help elect him.President Trump and President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia have had at least five face-to-face meetings and nine publicly reported phone conversations since Mr. Trump won the election in 2016.“If any president would have wanted witnesses and protection, it ought to have been Donald Trump,” said Richard N. Haass, the president of the Council on Foreign Relations and adviser to four presidents, most recently as President George W. Bush’s State Department policy planning director. “And yet he chose not to, and that adds fuel to the fire that something here is not right.”Mr. Trump’s defenders acknowledge Mr. Trump’s approach does not resemble the way his predecessors operated, but note that he has been an unorthodox president in so many ways that it does not prove anything untoward. And, they say, he has reason to feel burned since previous interactions with foreign leaders have leaked, including full transcripts of telephone calls with the leaders of Mexico and Australia published in The Washington Post.“Of course I was disappointed with Helsinki, but I do not just look at how the president handles specific meetings with Putin,” said Luke Coffey, a foreign policy scholar at the Heritage Foundation. “Instead, I’m most interested in what the actual policies are coming out of the administration.”He cited additional sanctions, weapons sent to Ukraine, increased Pentagon spending meant to counter Russian aggression and opposition to a new Russian pipeline to Europe. All that, he said, “is proof that this is one of the toughest administrations on Russia since Reagan.”The question of Mr. Trump’s meetings with Mr. Putin was revived by a pair of news stories last weekend. The New York Times reported that after Mr. Trump fired the F.B.I. director James B. Comey in 2017, the bureau opened a counterintelligence investigation to explore whether the president was acting on Russia’s behalf. The Post reported that Mr. Trump had gone to unusual lengths to conceal details of his talks with Mr. Putin, including taking his interpreter’s notes.The White House dismissed the stories as unfair smears. “The liberal media has wasted two years trying to manufacture a fake collusion scandal instead of reporting the fact that unlike President Obama, who let Russia and other foreign adversaries push America around, President Trump has actually been tough on Russia,” Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said in a statement.Mr. Trump has been in contact with Mr. Putin since shortly after his election in November 2016. Mr. Putin sent him a congratulatory telegram and the two spoke by telephone on Nov. 14.They spoke a few more times before meeting in person for the first time as presidents on July 7, 2017, in Hamburg, Germany, during a Group of 20, or G-20, economic summit meeting. Aside from interpreters, the only others in the room were Rex W. Tillerson, then the secretary of state, and Sergey V. Lavrov, the Russian foreign minister.The inaugural meeting came at a sensitive time. Mr. Trump’s team learned that day that one of the biggest secrets of his presidential bid was about to become public: At the height of the campaign, his son, son-in-law and campaign chairman had met at Trump Tower with Russians on the promise of obtaining dirt on Mrs. Clinton from the Russian government. Mr. Trump’s team was scrambling to respond to a request for comment by The Times.Mr. Trump’s meeting with Mr. Putin that day lasted more than two hours. Afterward, Mr. Trump took his interpreter’s notes and instructed the interpreter not to brief anyone. Mr. Tillerson told reporters that the leaders discussed everything from Syria to Ukraine, but he also described “a very robust and lengthy exchange” on the election hacking.A few hours later, Mr. Trump sought out Mr. Putin again during a dinner for all the leaders. Videotape later made public showed Mr. Trump pointing at Mr. Putin, who was seated across and down a long table, then pointing at himself and then making a pumping motion with his fist.Mr. Trump later told The Times that he went over to see his wife, Melania Trump, who was sitting next to Mr. Putin, and the two leaders then talked, with Mr. Putin’s interpreter translating. No American officials were present, and the White House did not confirm the encounter until more than 10 days later, after it was independently reported.The day after the two meetings, as Mr. Trump was on Air Force One taking off from Germany heading back to Washington, he telephoned a Times reporter and argued that the Russians were falsely accused of election interference. While he insisted most of the conversation be off the record, he later repeated a few things in public in little-noticed asides.He said that he raised the election hacking three times and that Mr. Putin denied involvement. But he said Mr. Putin also told him that “if we did, we wouldn’t have gotten caught because we’re professionals.” Mr. Trump said: “I thought that was a good point because they are some of the best in the world” at hacking.Asked how he weighed Mr. Putin’s denials against the evidence that had been presented to him by Mr. Comey; John O. Brennan, then the C.I.A. director; and James R. Clapper Jr., then director of national intelligence, he said that Mr. Clapper and Mr. Brennan were the “most political” intelligence chiefs he knew and that Mr. Comey was “a leaker.”Later on the same flight to Washington, Mr. Trump huddled with aides to decide how to respond to the emerging story by other Times reporters about the Trump Tower meeting. He personally dictated a misleading statement, saying the meeting was about Russian adoptions without admitting that it was actually intended to accept Moscow’s aid for his campaign, as emails obtained by The Times later documented.The confluence of the two conversations with Mr. Putin even as Mr. Trump’s team was grappling with questions about the Trump Tower meeting have fueled further suspicions.“If you add up all these pieces, it’s a very damning picture at a minimum of how to handle national security,” said Mr. Weiss, who is now at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. “If there’s a more nefarious explanation, it’s obviously more disturbing.”Mr. Trump next encountered Mr. Putin in person on Nov. 11, 2017, at a meeting of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum in Da Nang, Vietnam. No formal meeting was scheduled, but the two chatted anyway, and Mr. Trump later indicated that Mr. Putin again denied any election interference. “I really believe that when he tells me that, he means it,” Mr. Trump said.The two stayed in touch by phone. Mr. Trump called after Mr. Putin was re-elected in a contest heavily managed by the state in his favor. Although wary aides wrote in his briefing papers, “DO NOT CONGRATULATE,” Mr. Trump went ahead and congratulated Mr. Putin.Their most famous meeting came on July 16, 2018, in Helsinki, where they talked for more than two hours accompanied only by interpreters. At a subsequent news conference, Mr. Trump seemed to again accept Mr. Putin’s denial of election interference over the conclusions of American intelligence agencies.But what happened behind closed doors remained shrouded. The Kremlin later reported that the leaders reached important agreements, but American government officials were left in the dark. American intelligence agencies were left to glean details about the meeting from surveillance of Russians who talked about it afterward.Within months, Mr. Trump was angling for another meeting, perhaps at the White House or in Paris. Finally, they scheduled a get-together in Buenos Aires in December on the sidelines of another G-20 meeting.Days before, Russian forces seized three Ukrainian naval vessels, but Mr. Trump seemed intent on sitting down with Mr. Putin, telling reporters as he left the White House for Buenos Aires that the meeting was still on. Just an hour later, after aides briefed him again on Ukraine standoff, he canceled the meeting on Twitter, catching the Russians off guard.But when he arrived in Buenos Aires, Mr. Trump ended up having another informal conversation with Mr. Putin at the leaders’ dinner. Once again, little information emerged about what they discussed, even to many other American government officials.“I’ve never heard of a president conducting one-on-one meetings with his Russian counterpart without note-takers or without afterward offering readouts to his top aides,” said David J. Kramer, a former assistant secretary of state under Mr. Bush. “Putin is privy to what the two discussed — why can’t senior administration officials be trusted and looped in too?”David E. Sanger contributed reporting.Follow Peter Baker on Twitter: @peterbakernyt

Supported byBy Mark Mazzetti and Adam GoldmanWASHINGTON — President Trump’s longtime adviser Roger J. Stone Jr. pleaded not guilty on Tuesday to felony charges in the special counsel investigation during a brief federal court appearance in which the often flamboyant Mr. Stone appeared solemn and said little.During the 15-minute proceeding, a lawyer for Mr. Stone, Robert C. Buschel, entered the plea on his client’s behalf to charges of obstruction, witness tampering and making false statements. After the hearing, Mr. Stone declined to comment to a throng of reporters following him through the courthouse and outside.In a detailed indictment unsealed last week, the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, accused Mr. Stone of lying to investigators for the House Intelligence Committee, which is conducting its own inquiry into the Russian election interference campaign, and of pressuring another witness in that investigation to lie to the committee.The indictment also said that Trump campaign officials dispatched Mr. Stone to make contact with WikiLeaks during the summer of 2016, when the website was releasing a trove of damaging information about Hillary Clinton that had been stolen by Russian intelligence operatives.Mr. Mueller has not accused Mr. Stone of playing a role in the hacking, and Mr. Trump and his allies have pointed out that the indictment does not make a case that the Trump campaign engaged in a conspiracy with Russia to disrupt the election.Prosecutors from the United States attorney’s office in Washington will try the case in tandem with Mr. Mueller’s team, Jeannie Rhee, one of the special counsel prosecutors, said during Tuesday’s hearing. The move suggested that Mr. Mueller might be eyeing an eventual shift of the case to the United States attorney’s office as the Russia investigation winds down. On Monday, Matthew G. Whitaker, the acting attorney general, told reporters that he believed it was close to its conclusion.Mr. Stone, known for outlandish outfits, wore a prim suit with a dark blue, knitted tie, and his refusal to comment after his hearing Tuesday was a reversal of his stance in recent days. On Friday, hours after the F.B.I. conducted a raid on his Florida home, he stood on the steps of a courthouse in Fort Lauderdale and declared he would be “completely vindicated.”“There is no circumstance whatsoever under which I will bear false witness against the president, nor will I make up lies to ease the pressure on myself,” Mr. Stone said then, before flashing twin V-for-victory hand signs made famous by his political hero, former President Richard M. Nixon.Mr. Stone embarked on a media blitz afterward, giving numerous interviews over the weekend about his case and accusing Mr. Mueller’s investigators of hounding him and his associates.He said that the messages cited in the indictment that he exchanged with Randy Credico, a longtime New York radio personality who was also called to testify before the House Intelligence Committee, were made in jest and taken “out of context."“I never told Mr. Credico to lie,” he said on Sunday during an interview on ABC’s “This Week.”As he exited the courthouse on Tuesday, Mr. Stone looked at reporters and pointed toward the exit, appearing to signal them to an area outside where he could talk. But the mayhem that greeted him outside — dozens of cameramen and protesters holding signs — quickly crowded him into the back seat of a sport-utility vehicle, which drove him away from the courthouse. Mr. Stone never commented.Noah Weiland contributed reporting.

Supported byWhat to CookBy Sam SiftonGood morning. It is the Feast of the Epiphany today, at least for those who celebrate the revelation of God incarnate as this poor little dude in a manger, visited by kings. Either way you could make Dorie Greenspan’s recipe for a galette des rois (above). The deliciousness is its own reward.That is a lot of work, of course, even for a Sunday. (A king cake of the sort they make in New Orleans for Mardi Gras is a good backup plan.) So keep it simple for dinner. Perhaps an omelet mousseline? I had a truly ethereal version at the restaurant Frenchette right before Christmas, the omelet lined with sea urchin roe and brushed with butter. At home you could try salmon roe in its place? Or maybe crab meat or nothing at all?On Monday night, I like the idea of this maple-and-miso-glossed sheet-pan salmon dinner with green beans. (Are you nervous about cooking the salmon? Here’s our guide to the practice, life lessons hard-won.)For Tuesday, how about chicken braised in two vinegars, to serve over polenta? Agrodolce!As for Wednesday night, when it’s the hassle of all hassles to cook, you might improve your life greatly with baked skillet pasta with Cheddar and spiced onions. Or, failing that, with one of these 13 delicious recipes that are ready in 20 minutes or less.A Thursday in January, in New York City, would seem to call for creamy cabbage soup with Gruyère. (If you’re reading in Sydney or Perth, try summer minestrone with basil instead.) Though it’s never not a good time to cook and eat lamb smash burgers in the style of Xi’an, in the Shaanxi Province of northwestern China.And then you can finish out the week with a proper Friday-night cast-iron steak, with rösti and creamed spinach. You can! But if you won’t, try braised tofu in caramel sauce, and serve with rice and lao hu cai.Many, many thousands more recipes you might cook this weekend are waiting for you on NYT Cooking. (At least once you secure a subscription.) You can come visit us on Instagram, Facebook and Twitter. And, whether you pay or not, you can always write to us at cookingcare@nytimes.com for help with your cooking or our technology.Now, it’s nothing to do with Bing cherries or heritage pigs, but I’m glad I finally caught up with our architecture critic Michael Kimmelman’s piece about mobility in France. It’s about the mobility of trains, planes and automobiles, of course, but also about social and economic mobility. Read it, and you’ll understand the rage of the Yellow Vests a little better, I’m sure.Getting rid of a Christmas tree today? Or just generally looking to tidy up your place? Family Handyman has a smart list of household organizational hacks that may intrigue. (Related, kinda: Here’re some photographs of homes with design issues.)Finally, Gustavo Arellano is moving from the opinion side of The Los Angeles Times to the news department, where he’ll be a reporter covering the state of California. Here’s his final column. As he would say, “Read it, porfas!” And follow him close. I’ll see you tomorrow.cookingcooking

Supported byLet us help you start your day. By Penn Bullock(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning. The U.S. partial government shutdown is over (for now), Venezuela faces an international ultimatum, and the Afghan war could be near its end. Here’s the latest: President Trump temporarily reopened the government, but the clock is ticking. He warned that he was ready to shut down parts of the government again or bypass Congress altogether if Republicans and Democrats can’t agree on funding for a border wall by Feb. 15. The question in the meantime is whether the divided government can produce any results.On the same day the president bowed to pressure, the special counsel indicted a decades-long adviser of his, Roger Stone, and revealed the most direct link yet between the Trump campaign and WikiLeaks’ effort to release hacked Democratic Party emails.Details: Here’s a profile of Mr. Stone — an eccentric Nixon apostle and self-described dirty trickster — and an explanation of what his indictment means. And here is a visual representation of the Trump campaign’s extensive contacts with Russian nationals and WikiLeaks. Analysis: The shutdown and the Stone indictment may have hurt the president’s leverage. According to some estimates, the American economy lost at least $6 billion during the 35-day stalemate. And Mr. Trump’s poll numbers were down, stirring concerns among Republican leaders about his ability to navigate the next two years.European countries including Britain, France, Germany, the Netherlands and Spain urged President Nicolás Maduro to schedule new elections within eight days.If Mr. Maduro doesn’t commit to fresh elections, the European governments say they will recognize the opposition leader, Juan Guaidó, as interim president.Analysis: The ultimatum presents a new layer of uncertainty in a deepening crisis. Mr. Guaidó has urged protesters to keep the pressure on the government “if they dare to kidnap me.”Mr. Maduro, appearing to be striking a conciliatory tone, backed down from demanding that all American diplomats leave the country. Over the past year, the Trump administration has embarked on a global campaign to pressure allies to prevent Huawei and other Chinese companies from helping build out 5G networks.The U.S. has suggested to Poland that future deployments of American troops could hinge on whether the country works with Huawei. And in Germany, American officials warned that working with Huawei could pose a security risk to NATO.Why: The U.S. believes that whoever controls the high-speed 5G internet networks will have an economic, military and intelligence edge for much of this century. The Trump administration therefore calculates that Beijing — and companies perceived to be working for the Chinese government — must be shut out.What’s next? The U.S. campaign may complicate the round of trade talks with China that begin in Washington this week, particularly as Beijing seeks to free Huawei’s chief financial officer, Meng Wanzhou, who was arrested in Canada at America’s request.The U.S. and the Taliban wrapped up six days of negotiations to end the 17-year conflict in Afghanistan. Both sides reported progress — a first in nine years of intermittent peace efforts.Details: Though much remains to be ironed out, the deal would kick off a phased withdrawal of American troops in exchange for a Taliban cease-fire. The Taliban would also have to pledge not to allow international terrorist groups to use Afghanistan as a planning hub. How the Taliban would share power with the Afghan government remains to be resolved.Caution: Most observers don’t believe Afghan forces can stand up against the Taliban without American support.Fear: The idea of a U.S. troop withdrawal worries Afghan women, who fear that their rights will be taken away.  The toll: The war’s toll has been immense: At least 62,000 Afghan military and police officers have been killed, along with possibly as many Taliban — and more than 24,000 Afghan civilians over the last decade alone. One photographer set out to capture the makeshift prosthetics some Afghans use.Coming this week: Britain’s Parliament votes on amendments to Prime Minister Theresa May’s Brexit plan, and the U.S. Federal Reserve meets (but will probably not raise interest rates).Germany: A panel of various interest groups laid out a plan to end the country’s use of coal power within two decades.Brazil: A dam collapse that left 58 dead and 305 missing is the deadliest mining accident in the country’s history. Alarm over a second dam spread panic and raised outrage about the industry’s perceived impunity. Singapore: The city-state has landmarks of Brutalist architecture — built by a 1970s movement partly influenced by a similar one in postwar Britain — and they are incubating gritty, artsy subcultures that belie the image of tidy streets and often-authoritarian governance. Some of the landmarks are on the verge of being sold, prompting calls to save them. Facebook: Mark Zuckerberg plans to merge the social media platform’s messaging services — WhatsApp, Instagram and Messenger — at a time when the company has been scarred by scandal. The services will continue to operate as stand-alone apps but will allow users to communicate across the platforms.The Holocaust: On her way to visit Auschwitz, our reporter found “Heil Hitler” signs and other Nazi swag at a flea market in Poland, where regulations on such sales are rarely enforced.Spain: The authorities said they had found the body of a 2-year-old boy who fell into a well nearly two weeks ago. Gandhi: Around the world, the man who led India into independence is still revered as a peaceful revolutionary. But his halo has dimmed for the Hindu right and lower castes.Australian Open: Novak Djokovic beat Rafael Nadal for his 15th Grand Slam title, and Naomi Osaka became the first singles player from Japan to clinch a No. 1 ranking globally after defeating Petra Kvitova for her second Grand Slam title.In memoriam: Michel Legrand, the French pianist, arranger and composer of hundreds of film scores and songs, among them “The Windmills of Your Mind,” died at 86. #ThankGodIt’sMonday? A workplace culture has emerged in recent years that glorifies the hustle and encourages employees to put in long hours. Our technology reporter considers whether that’s sustainable.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: For a quick dinner, make soba noodles into a salad with edamame, carrots and spinach.You can silence notifications on your phone without missing the important ones.Intense exercise could reduce your interest in food, some studies suggest.Happy Data Privacy Day!Or maybe not so happy. In the years since the celebration was born in Europe and then adopted in the U.S. and Canada, digital privacy has become a mainstream concern.As someone who covers personal tech for a living, I’ve lost count of how many times hackers have breached companies’ computer systems and stolen customers’ credit card numbers, and worse. (Thanks, Equifax, Marriott and Facebook.)Digital privacy is no joke. If you do one thing to protect your data today — or this week, or this year — set aside a few hours to beef up the strength of your passwords.Make sure every password you use for logging in to a site or an app is unique and complex. Password management apps like 1Password or LastPass make it easy, by letting you use one master password to reach a vault of all of your passwords.Trust me, you’ll feel a lot better.Brian X. Chen, the lead consumer technology writer at The Times, wrote today’s Back Story.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.

Supported byBy Remy Tumin and Marcus Payadue(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. President Trump agreed to reopen the federal government for three weeks while negotiations continued over border security, backing down after a monthlong standoff with Democrats over funding for his border wall.The decision paved the way for Congress to pass spending bills as soon as Friday. The stopgap measure will restore normal operations at a series of federal agencies until Feb. 15 and begin paying the 800,000 federal workers who have been furloughed or forced to work for free for 35 days.The plan includes no money for the wall and was essentially the same approach Mr. Trump rejected at the end of December. But he cautioned that the cease-fire might be only temporary.“We really have no choice but to build a powerful wall or steel barrier,” Mr. Trump said in the Rose Garden. “If we don’t get a fair deal from Congress, the government will either shut down on Feb. 15, or I will use the powers afforded to me under the laws and Constitution of the United States to address this emergency.”Airport delays this morning added to the urgency of a solution. La Guardia Airport in New York was closed to arriving flights, and a shortage of air traffic controllers triggered significant delays across the Northeast._____2. The special counsel, Robert Mueller, revealed the most direct link yet between the parallel efforts of the Trump campaign and WikiLeaks to damage Hillary Clinton’s presidential bid.In a seven-count indictment against Roger Stone, above, an informal adviser to President Trump, the special counsel disclosed evidence that a top campaign official had instructed Mr. Stone to get information from WikiLeaks about thousands of hacked Democratic emails. That effort began well after it was widely reported that Russian intelligence operatives were behind the hack.The indictment makes no mention of whether Mr. Trump played a role, though Mr. Mueller did leave a curious clue about how high in the campaign the effort reached: A senior campaign official “was directed” by an unnamed person to contact Mr. Stone about additional WikiLeaks releases that might hurt the Clinton campaign, according to the court document.Who is Roger Stone, anyway? Here’s what we know about him and his colorful career._____3. Venezuela’s opposition leader made his first public appearance since he declared himself president, and told supporters to keep pressure on the authorities “if they dare to kidnap me.”The rally was peaceful and there was no indication Juan Guaidó would be arrested, as many feared.At the same time, President Nicolás Maduro took a more conciliatory approach than before and called for dialogue. The request appeared to signal that the standoff between the government and Mr. Guaidó may be shifting.Opposition talks with the military may be a factor. Venezuela’s top brass swore allegiance to Mr. Maduro, but an opposition lawmaker said her colleagues were holding discreet talks with military leaders in hopes that they could build enough support to get large factions to switch sides._____4. Jennifer Glover was assaulted by her fellow guards at a nuclear site in Nevada, she said.And instead of responding to her complaints, the government contractor she worked for eventually fired her.The encounter followed months of sexual harassment that she said began soon after she was hired. Even after reporting the abuse, she continued to face harassment and intimidation. She was reprimanded for calling out sick — to avoid her attackers, she said — and ordered to undergo psychiatric evaluations.“Work went from being so exciting to being a nightmare,” she said._____5. Mark Zuckerberg once vowed to keep WhatsApp and Instagram independent. Now he’s changing course to keep their users inside Facebook’s ecosystem.Facebook’s chief executive has mandated that the social network’s three messaging services — the third is Facebook Messenger — be knitted together. The three services will continue operating as stand-alone apps, but their underlying messaging infrastructure will be unified.The changes also raise questions of data privacy because of how user information may be shared among the services. Today, WhatsApp allows people to sign up with only a phone number. By contrast, Facebook and Facebook Messenger ask for users’ real names.Separately, Amazon’s new facial recognition technology had more difficulty identifying the gender of female and darker-skinned faces than similar services from IBM and Microsoft._____6. Can paid parental leave be too much of a good thing?The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation is cutting its unusually generous paid leave in half — to six months — because yearlong leaves were impairing its work, it said. It is also adding a $20,000 stipend for new parents to spend on child care costs.The Gates Foundation’s experience highlights the challenges of devising effective family policies, especially in the U.S. — the only industrialized country not to offer paid leave.On top of questions about whether leave should be mandatory and who should pay for it, there has been little agreement on the right length of time. International evidence points to some answers: Around six months seems to be the magic number. And paid leave is not enough: Financial assistance for child care has a bigger effect on women’s ability to keep working._____7. It was nothing but a box of paperwork.In 1979, a Navy man credited with starting the quirky Hawaiian Iron Man Triathlon was reassigned to the mainland. He was looking for someone to run the third edition of the race — and handed off some papers to a couple who said they would do it.They went on to make the Ironman into an iconic test of endurance and one of the world’s premier sports brands. A Chinese conglomerate paid $650 million for it in 2015. Above, bikes awaiting their riders at the 2018 Ironman World Championship Triathlon.And because of that box, all these years later, the fight over who rightfully owns the race endures.Separately, have you noticed the N.B.A.’s scoring explosion this season? It has to do with the league’s emphasis on pace and 3-pointers, combined with an edict to make defenders back off._____8. Roy Wood Jr. is best known as a correspondent on “The Daily Show With Trevor Noah.”But he has made a niche for himself as one of the country’s foremost comic voices on social issues — especially those affecting African-Americans.He almost didn’t make it this far: He grew up among gang members in Birmingham, Ala., and was arrested in his junior year of college for stolen credit cards. His probation officer encouraged him to keep doing comedy. Tonight, his first Comedy Central special premieres.In the special, Mr. Wood jokes that the national anthem controversy is especially absurd because the tune is based on a British song: “Now, you’re running around telling stolen people in a stolen land that they should stand for a stolen song?”And no matter how much time you have this weekend, we have TV recommendations for you._____9. Ninety-nine percent of the U.S. population lives under light-polluted skies.After one math teacher from Washington, D.C., visited the country’s first International Dark Sky Reserve, 1,400 square miles in Idaho, he wondered how to make sure people know places like it existed.“A lot of people who live in an urban setting and who look like me will never get to see the beauty of our world in its natural state,” he told our graphic journalist.“There is no lock on the door. Nobody is trying to keep people of color out. But not having the opportunity to know about it, that’s a lock.”_____10. Finally, let’s play catch-up.Do you know which country’s economy grew 6.6 percent last year, its slowest pace of growth since 1990? What the Brexit “backstop” is all about?Test your knowledge of the week’s headlines.Have a relaxing weekend._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.

Supported byAlso: Nancy Pelosi and federal workers, victorious over President Trump.By David LeonhardtOpinion ColumnistThis article is part of David Leonhardt’s newsletter. You can sign up here to receive it each weekday.Pete Buttigieg’s notion of “intergenerational justice” — the subject of one of my newsletters last week — sent me on a data hunt. I dug into the numbers on income, wealth and other issues to see how millennials, baby boomers, my own Generation X and others are faring.The results tell a clear story, and it’s the story I tell in my column today: The fleecing of millennials. If you don’t have time to read the full column right now, check out the first two charts.Is Nancy Pelosi tired of winning yet?President Trump’s disconnection from reality is sometimes a big political advantage for him. Without any apparent interest in the facts, he is often able to persuade his supporters to believe whatever story is most favorable to himself. Other times, however, this disconnection from reality ends up hurting Trump.[Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]The now-paused government shutdown is a good case study. Trump never had a good plan for ending the shutdown. He evidently figured he could bluff his way out of a political trap. But Nancy Pelosi, the speaker of the House, knew better. She knew that the politics favored the Democrats, not Trump. She understood that the shutdown was hurting him and that he would ultimately need to fold. On Friday, fold he did. It was one more reminder that Pelosi is the most effective speaker of modern times.In New York magazine, Sarah Jones notes that Pelosi wasn’t the only protagonist in the story. So were the federal workers — especially air traffic controllers, flight attendants and T.S.A. and I.R.S. employees — who began missing work in large enough numbers to create problems for the rest of the country. “Workers bore the cost of the shutdown, and it shouldn’t surprise anyone that they began to revolt. By withholding their labor, they redirected the pain the Trump administration had inflicted upon them,” Jones writes. The Mueller report, a previewOver the weekend, Jennifer Taub of Vermont Law School put together an excellent summary of the findings that Robert Mueller’s investigation has produced. “Pay attention to documents already filed,” Taub tweeted. “Through them, we’ve seen much of the Mueller Report. And it is spectacular.” Taub’s list:George Papadopoulos, a Trump campaign adviser, lied to the F.B.I. about his extensive contacts with a London-based professor who said he was close with Russian officials and had “dirt” on Hillary Clinton. Papadopoulos then informed higher-ranking campaign officials of these contacts.Michael Flynn, Trump’s national security adviser, lied to the F.B.I. about phone calls he had with the Russian ambassador to the United States. He had coordinated those calls with at least one other member of the Trump transition team.Michael Cohen, Trump’s former attorney, lied to Congress about a planned Trump business deal in Moscow. Paul Manafort, shortly before becoming Trump’s campaign chairman, shared campaign polling data with Konstantin Kilimnik, a Russian with apparent ties to Russian military intelligence. Roger Stone, a longtime Trump adviser, lied to Congress about his attempts to communicate with WikiLeaks, which is closely linked to 12 Russian intelligence officials who hacked Democrats’ emails.During the 2016 campaign and after, Trump repeatedly lied about his own Russian contacts.If you are not a subscriber to this newsletter, you can subscribe here. You can also join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt • Facebook 

Supported byBy Maggie HabermanRoger J. Stone Jr., a longtime adviser to President Trump, said on Sunday that he was “prepared to fight for my life” and prove his innocence in the case brought against him by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III.Mr. Stone, who was charged on Friday with obstruction of justice, witness tampering and making false statements, said on ABC’s “This Week” that text message exchanges that were cited in his indictment were being misrepresented.“It has to be seen in context,” Mr. Stone said of his exchanges with Randy Credico, a former associate and political gadfly. “It is a humorous exchange. They’re taking things out of context to present them in a light that mischaracterizes their significance. I never told Mr. Credico to lie.”Mr. Stone told Mr. Credico in 2017 to “do a ‘Frank Pentangeli’” when he appeared before the House Intelligence Committee investigating Russian interference in the 2016 election. The reference was to a character in “The Godfather: Part II” who ultimately avoids implicating another person in his own testimony before Congress.“If you testify you’re a fool,” Mr. Stone said in one message, according to the indictment, adding that he could “never get away with” invoking his Fifth Amendment right but that Mr. Credico could. “I guarantee you you are the one who gets indicted for perjury if you’re stupid enough to testify.”Mr. Stone’s legal team has said that other text exchanges reveal that he and Mr. Credico often had jocular back and forths, before and after the ones in question, that undercut the notion that Mr. Credico could have felt threatened.Mr. Stone said he had forgotten about some exchanges with Mr. Credico when he told House investigators that they did not exist, a statement that was part of the indictment against him.“I did forget on some occasions that I had text messages and emails,” Mr. Stone said. “I am human and I did make some errors, but they’re errors that would be inconsequential in the scope of this investigation.”Mr. Stone also said that he never spoke with Mr. Trump about WikiLeaks, and that they did not discuss a pardon or the investigation into collusion with Russian officials.According to the indictment, a top official from the Trump campaign dispatched him to get information from the group about the thousands of hacked Democratic emails that were damaging to Hillary Clinton’s presidential campaign.In a tweet over the weekend, Mr. Trump appeared to put some distance between himself and Mr. Stone, saying that his adviser did not work for the campaign for most of 2016.On Sunday, Mr. Stone did not rule out the possibility of speaking with Mr. Mueller’s investigators.“If there’s wrongdoing by other people in the campaign that I know about, which I know of none, but if there is I would certainly testify honestly,” he said.“I’d also testify honestly about any other matter, including any communications with the president,” he continued. “It’s true that we spoke on the phone, but those communications are political in nature, they’re benign, and there is — there is certainly no conspiracy with Russia,” he said.Mr. Stone also acknowledged that it was unusual for a defendant who has been arrested to promptly go on a media tour. But Mr. Stone, who has never shied from attention, said he wanted to highlight what he called the “extraordinary” tactics and aggression that the F.B.I. used in its predawn raid on his Florida home.“I think the American people need to hear about it,” said Mr. Stone, who noted that he is 66, owns no firearms and has an expired passport.“I was not a flight risk,” he said.

Supported byBy Jean Rutter and Marcus Payadue(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. The shutdown won’t end soon. In a contentious meeting at the White House, President Trump and congressional leaders failed to break a deadlock that has kept the government partially shut down for nearly two weeks.Mr. Trump threatened to keep agencies closed for “months or even years” unless Congress approved money for his proposed wall on the southern border. Above, in the Rose Garden after the meeting.Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California, whose party assumed control of the House this week, said Democrats were committed to securing the border but wanted government offices reopened while they negotiated. “We can do that best when government is open,” she said.The impasse seems different from previous partisan funding fights, our chief Washington correspondent writes: Instead of trading proposals and counterproposals, this time Democrats and Republicans are trading blame._____2. “It’s like a political chess game that they’re playing,” a corrections officer at a federal prison in Florida told us, “and we seem to be pawns.”The partial government shutdown has left 800,000 federal workers furloughed or working without pay. We talked to many of them — and heard frustration, even disgust, that their elected leaders weren’t more concerned about their welfare. Above, a federal detention center in SeaTac, Wash.By Saturday, the government will have been shut down for two weeks — a full pay cycle. And if the shutdown lasts beyond the following Saturday, it will be the longest in U.S. history.The shutdown has been especially challenging to the nation’s courts and criminal justice system, and to those whose livelihoods depend on them. Court dockets are backing up. And guards are scrambling to figure out how to pay for child care, rent and medications.We’re tracking what is — and isn’t — affected by the shutdown._____3. Employment numbers ended the year with a flourish.The Labor Department’s hiring and unemployment figures for December showed 312,000 jobs added last month.It was the biggest monthly gain since February, and far ahead of Wall Street analysts’ predictions of an increase of about 180,000.December’s figures do not account for workers furloughed during the partial government shutdown, which began after last month’s surveys were conducted.Also, stocks surged after the Federal Reserve chairman said the central bank’s approach to monetary policy would remain flexible in the face of market turbulence. The S&amp;P 500 rose more than 3 percent, while the Nasdaq was up more than 4 percent.So what lies ahead? We spoke to an expert who accurately predicted the 2018 market plunge — and he’s still bearish._____4. “My dad is the Sinaloa cartel’s leader.” From an early age, Vicente Zambada Niebla was groomed to run the powerful Sinaloa drug cartel. He was a top lieutenant and the son of one of its leaders.But on Thursday, he testified in the trial of his father’s former partner, Joaquín Guzmán Loera, known as El Chapo, betraying his father — and his birthright. Above, Vicente Zambada Niebla in 2009 in Mexico City.In more than five hours as a prosecution witness, Mr. Zambada gave details about smuggling routes, money-laundering schemes, bloody wars, vendettas and millions of dollars in bribes.Mr. Zambada pleaded guilty to drug trafficking charges in 2013 in a secret deal in Chicago. His lawyers claimed that he was a longtime spy for the Drug Enforcement Administration._____5. For some teachers, their employer is also their landlord. Our education reporter visited a school district in California that owns an apartment complex and rents to its teachers at below-market rates.The unusual arrangement is catching on in regions awash in tech dollars, where school employees say they cannot afford to live comfortably on their salaries. Above, a high school teacher who lives at the complex.But the districts’ efforts are not always welcomed by local homeowners, who fear their property values could drop. That has set off new debates over gentrification and what obligations the tech sector has to the cities where it has offices.“Families trust us with their kids from 8 to 3 every day,” said one teacher, whose commute can take nearly two hours each way. “I don’t know why it wouldn’t be the case that they would trust us in their communities.”_____6. Marriott International said a huge cyberattack that exposed the private information of millions of guests was not quite as bad as first thought.But the company conceded that its reservations system did not encrypt passport numbers for some five million guests. The breach was the biggest hack of personal information in history — one that experts believe was carried out by Chinese intelligence agencies.Teams of forensic and data analysts have identified “approximately 383 million records as the upper limit” for the total number of guest reservations records lost, the company said, down from an earlier estimate of 500 million when the attack was revealed at the end of November. Above, in Chicago.Separately, Twitter shut down an account that an unidentified hacker had been using for weeks to expose the personal details of dozens of German lawmakers._____7. What keeps them going?We have been following a small group of the “oldest old” — people over age 85, one of the fastest-growing age groups in the country. We wanted to see what made them tick, what they hoped for and what they feared.Having gotten old in an aging culture that still worships youth, they have done the unthinkable: gotten older.“Did you ever meet anyone like me?” one asked our reporter. “I’m special.”You can find earlier installments of the ‘85 and Up’ series here._____8. We’re introducing In Her Words, a newsletter that gives women’s voices the floor. It’s a direct descendant of our Gender Letter, and aimed at our female readers around the globe.Our writer will break down news events, offer behind-the-scenes insights from Times journalists, share reader experiences and more. Most stories will be framed through the words of women, because it’s those words that too often have been scarce or shouted down.You can sign up here to get future installments delivered to your inbox._____9. Gaze into our Golden Globes crystal ball. The Globes, which will be broadcast on Sunday, are the highest-profile pit stop on the way to the Academy Awards. And a win can help contenders remain front of mind on Monday, when Academy members begin to vote for Oscar nominations.The Globe judges, members of the Hollywood Foreign Press Association, have their own quirky tastes, and the show can have its share of upsets. Here are our Carpetbagger columnist’s predictions._____10. Finally, this Evening Briefing writer is signing off, filled with gratitude for our readers, and for the opportunity to work with a top-notch editing team, who will continue to guide you to the best Times journalism.I’m heading over to Retro Report, an independent, nonprofit news organization that provides historical context to the fast-paced news of today.You will find Retro Report’s collaborations with The Times here, including our most recent, on the history of a police ritual known as the perp walk. For future episodes, follow Retro Report on Twitter and YouTube.Have a delightful weekend.Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.

Supported byBy Thomas ErdbrinkTEHRAN — Stepping from a car into a muddy industrial site in the Iranian desert, a 22-year-old European Bitcoin investor raised his voice to be heard over the roar of a gas-fired generator.His Iranian counterparts — a bespectacled information-technology specialist, a self-described ‘‘hard-core Bitcoiner’’ and the businessman running the site — walked their foreign visitor over to gray shipping containers containing thousands of small computers. When completed and connected to the power grid, the computers would help process a cryptocurrency that, in theory at least, could enable Iran to evade United States sanctions.The value of Bitcoin, the dominant online currency in the world, is treacherously unpredictable. But it is an emerging front in the economic war between Washington and Tehran.Iran’s economy has been hobbled by banking sanctions that effectively stop foreign companies from doing business in the country. But transactions in Bitcoin, difficult to trace, could allow Iranians to make international payments while bypassing the American restrictions on banks.In the past, the threat of United States sanctions has been enough to squelch most business with Iran, but the anonymous payments made in Bitcoin could change that. While Washington could still monitor and intimidate major companies, countless small and midsize companies could exploit Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies to conduct business under American radar.The United States Treasury, well aware of the threat, is attempting to bring Bitcoin and the others into line. In recent weeks, in response to an internet fraud case originating from Iran, the Treasury imposed sanctions on two Iranians and the Bitcoin addresses, or ‘‘wallets,’’ they had used for trading in the currency.The Treasury also has warned digital marketplaces that buy and sell Bitcoin and companies that sell computers used to process Bitcoin transactions that they should not provide services to Iranians. Several well-known trading sites are now blocking buyers and sellers from Iran. Some have confiscated money belonging to clients based in Iran.“Treasury will aggressively pursue Iran and other rogue regimes attempting to exploit digital currencies,” the department said in a statement.But by their nature, cryptocurrencies are uncontrolled by any person or entity. At best, efforts to regulate or monitor trade in them are episodic, whack-a-mole affairs. With Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies, there is simply no way to duplicate the banking sanctions that have proved so damaging to the Iranian economy.Bitcoin transactions are recorded on a digital ledger or database known as the blockchain, maintained communally by many independent computers. The system is designed explicitly to avoid central banks and large financial institutions. Like emails delivered without going through a central postal service, the computer network maintaining Bitcoin records enables the movement of money without going through any central authority.The Iranian government has been slow to recognize the potential sanctions-evading possibilities of Bitcoin. But it is now considering the establishment of exchanges to facilitate trading, one official, Abdolhassan Firouzabadi, said recently. Despite the failure of Venezuela’s state-backed cryptocurrency, the Petro, Iran’s central bank said recently that it was seriously considering creation of something similar, possibly called the Crypto-Rial, named after the national currency, the rial.Still, Iran’s venture into Bitcoin pales in comparison to what has been happening the former Soviet republic of Georgia, where thousands of people have jumped into the cryptocurrency business.At the computerized processing operation in the Iranian desert, no one seemed particularly concerned with the geopolitical implications of Bitcoin.The operation consisted of 2,800 computers from China, fitted into eight containers, which when linked are called a farm. It makes intense mathematical calculations, known as mining, needed to confirm Bitcoin transactions. Miners collect fees in Bitcoin for their services.Ignoring the rain, the European visitor used the calculator on his mobile phone to determine how much money could be made from this particular farm, multiplying computer power and deducting electricity and operational costs.He estimated about five Bitcoins a month, which at roughly $4,000 per Bitcoin at current price levels, would be about $20,000.“Not too bad,” he said.The currency fluctuates like any other, though it has proved particularly volatile, sinking to slightly less than $4,000 a unit from nearly $20,000 about a year ago.“We’ll have two engineers on site to keep everything running, that’s it,” said Behzad, the chief executive of IranAsic, the company running the site. He, like the European investor, did not want to provide his family name, out of fear of penalties from the United States.The Chinese computers, called Antminer V9s, were regarded as outdated by the European visitor. Still, he said, “I guess this is the last place on earth where they are still profitable.”That helps explain why Iran seems to be taking its first baby steps toward becoming a global center for mining Bitcoins. Because of generous government subsidies, electricity — the energy for the computers needed to process cryptocurrency transactions — costs little in Iran. It goes for about six-tenths of a cent per kilowatt-hour, compared with an average of 12 cents in the United States and 35 cents in Germany.In recent months, dozens of foreign investors from Europe, Russia and Asia have considered moving their mining operations to Iran and other low-cost countries like Georgia. “We have to be flexible in this industry and go where prices are the lowest in order to survive,” said the European investor.Along on the inspection tour was a self-described ‘‘hard-core Bitcoiner,’’ Ziya Sadr, a bearded 25-year old with a beanie and a backpack full of hard drives and USB keys containing his personal stash of the currency. “It helps me to pay to outsource jobs, or allows foreign companies to pay me,” he said.Mr. Sadr said he was currently engineering website products for foreign clients and getting paid in Bitcoin. “These are not huge projects,” he said, “but had it not been for Bitcoin, I wouldn’t have been able get the contracts and get paid here in Iran.”Had Mr. Sadr tried any of these transactions through conventional financial institutions, his account would likely have been blocked.While Mr. Sadr’s transactions are small, some larger companies are starting to use Bitcoin to make payments and circumvent the sanctions. Europeans and Asian counterparts are increasingly cooperative, as their governments opposed the Trump administration’s decision to renounce the nuclear deal and reimpose sanctions.“There is no other way for us, Bitcoin cannot be sanctioned by anyone” said Mr. Sadr, who has discussed Bitcoin with Iranian government officials. “Not by the U.S. government or any other government or other financial entities.”Not quite. As its recent sanctioning of two digital currency addresses, or wallets, and their two Iranian owners showed, the United States Treasury can disrupt cryptocurrency trades, even if only a minuscule fraction of the total. New anonymous wallets can be created for free within minutes.The Treasury’s move came after the Justice Department had indicted two other Iranians on charges of having used ‘‘Samsam’’ ransomware in a sophisticated scheme of attacks on American hospitals, government agencies and the city of Atlanta. The two men, Faramarz Shahi Savandi and Mohammad Mehdi Shah Mansouri, are now wanted by the F.B.I. and are thought to be hiding in Iran.During the attack on Atlanta, one of the most serious cyberattacks against a major American city, the pair broke into its computer systems and held the data hostage, eventually ransoming it for about $51,000 worth of Bitcoin. They made around $6 million in Bitcoin from the attacks, prosecutors said.When the hackers wanted to exchange their Bitcoin for Iranian rials they contacted two local traders through WhatsApp. The traders, Ali Khorashadizadeh, 29, and Mohammad Ghorbaniyan, 31, exchanged some into rials.When on Nov. 28 a friend told Mr. Ghorbaniyan his name was in the news, he thought it was a mistake. He discovered that the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control had placed him and Mr. Khorashadizadeh under sanctions, as well as the Bitcoin addresses they had used. Those addresses had been linked to their websites, making their names traceable.“Please let it be known that, like every trader or bank, I have no knowledge how my clients get their money,” Mr. Ghorbaniyan said. “I just trade. I’m not a hacker. I have nothing to do with those guys.”By the next week, however, Mr. Ghorbaniyan was back in business, using a new — this time anonymous — Bitcoin address he created in five minutes. “Perhaps my name remains sanctioned, but we don’t use names online,” he said.Mr. Ghorbaniyan said his only mistake had been making his Bitcoin address public. “Basically, Treasury just Googled me,” he said. “I’m not making the same mistake again.”An earlier version of this article misstated the name of the Chinese computers used to mine Bitcoin at the site visited in the Iranian desert. They are Antminer V9s, not A9Antminers.

Supported byWhat to CookBy Sam SiftonGood morning. Melissa Clark is so smart. She’s come up with a terrific new recipe for oven-poached chicken breasts  that results in perfect chicken while allowing you to take advantage of the oven’s low heat to perform other feats of magic. You could make velvety garlic confit, for instance, that you can use to dress up oven-poached chicken breasts with tomatillos and jalapeños (above), or crisp shards of chicken skin to accompany oven-poached chicken breasts with crunchy parsley-onion salad. Make one of those dishes for dinner tonight, and I wager you’ll be making it all the time this winter.Kim Severson’s no dummy herself. A while back, she ginned up this great recipe for chicken-fried steak with cream gravy that is among the greatest things to eat with mashed potatoes that has yet been devised by a human being.As for Julia Moskin? She’s the Detective Superintendent Stella Gibson of our world, with investigative cooking skills that boggle the mind. Chicken francese, anyone? Pan-roasted fish with herb butter? A foolproof tarte Tatin? It’s cooking with comfort, when you’re cooking with Julia.David Tanis is in the smart set, too: His glazed shiitakes with bok choy are a beautiful accompaniment to a simple roast chicken. And so is Alison Roman with her cumin-roasted salmon with cilantro sauce. Florence Fabricant? Come on now. She’s royalty here: tagliatelle with mushrooms in red wine sauce.There are so many cooks in our kitchen. And nearing 20,000 recipes in our database. But I’m here, like a court jester, to suggest that you don’t need to listen to any of them, that once in a while you can cook without a recipe, that on Wednesdays in this space I will always encourage you to do just that. I’ll offer a narrative prompt instead, and ask you to interpret it however you like.So, this week? Root vegetables roasted with olive oil, butter and thyme in a 425 degree oven, to serve with pork chops you’ll sear on the stove, the meat dusted in salt and pepper and rubbed with mustard, then finish alongside the vegetables for 10 or 12 minutes. Get on that, and you’ll be fine tonight, whatever hacks you add to the “recipe.”Or go find something else entirely on NYT Cooking. (Here’s how to become a subscriber.) There is further kitchen inspiration on our Instagram, Facebook and Twitter feeds. We are standing by to help should something go wrong with a recipe or with our technology. Just write: cookingcare@nytimes.com.Now, it’s nothing to do with pellet ice and a morning Coca-Cola, but I like this “Get Shorty” series that’s emerged on Netflix, in part for the writing and totally for Chris O’Dowd.An office wag said Sally Rooney’s fiction was Y.A. for adults, but I ended up liking “Conversations With Friends” a fair amount, mostly because Sally Rooney is really smart. Next up: “Normal People,” which isn’t out in the United States yet. (I borrowed a copy of the British edition.) In the meantime, here’s her short story “Mr. Salary,” if you’d like a taste of her writing.Keeping things Irish, here’s Rory Gallagher, live in 1980, “Bullfrog Blues.”Did you hear that the macrobiotic Japanese restaurant temple Souen, in SoHo, is closing? Christine Muhlke wrote about that for us this week, and it’s so satisfying. (“On another level, this is a restaurant for people who hate not only restaurants, but food as well. Or who are at war with it.”)Finally, do read Nikil Saval in The New Yorker, on the increasing popularity of the home garage, an increasingly deprogrammed space, a room for American dreaming. See you on Friday.cookingcooking

Supported byLet us help you start your day.By Alisha Haridasani Gupta(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.The U.S. pushes allies to block Huawei, Venezuela faces mounting international pressure and India struggles to keep troublemaking monkeys in line. Here’s the latest:Over the past year, the Trump administration has embarked on a global campaign to pressure allies to prevent Huawei and other Chinese firms from helping build out 5G networks.The U.S. has suggested to Poland that future deployments of American troops could hinge on whether the country works with Huawei. And in Germany, American officials warned that working with Huawei could pose a security risk to NATO.Why: The U.S. believes that whoever controls the high-speed 5G internet networks will have an economic, military and intelligence edge for much of this century. The Trump administration has therefore adopted a zero-sum calculus in which Beijing — and companies perceived to be working for the Chinese government — must be shut out.What’s next? The U.S. campaign may complicate the round of trade talks with China beginning in Washington later this week, particularly as Beijing seeks to free Huawei’s chief financial officer, Meng Wanzhou, who was arrested in Canada at the request of the U.S.President Trump temporarily reopened the government on Friday, but the clock is ticking. He warned that he was ready to renew the confrontation or bypass Congress altogether if Republicans and Democrats couldn’t agree on funding for a border wall by Feb. 15.On the same day the president bowed to pressure, the special counsel indicted one of his longtime advisers, Roger Stone, revealing the most direct link yet between the Trump campaign and the WikiLeaks effort to release hacked emails from the Democratic Party.Here’s a profile of Mr. Stone and an explanation of what his indictment means. And here’s a visual representation of how many times the Trump campaign had contact with Russian nationals and WikiLeaks.Analysis: The combination of the shutdown and the Stone indictment may have damaged the president’s leverage. According to some estimates, the American economy lost at least $6 billion during the 35-day stalemate. And Mr. Trump’s poll numbers were dragged down, stirring concerns among Republican leaders about his ability to navigate the next two years of a divided government.European countries — including the Netherlands, Germany, France, Spain and Britain — urged President Nicolás Maduro to hold new elections within eight days.If Mr. Maduro doesn’t commit to fresh elections, the European governments will recognize the opposition leader, Juan Guaidó, as the interim president of Venezuela.Analysis: The ultimatum presents a new layer of uncertainty in a deepening political crisis. Mr. Guaidó, who proclaimed himself the legitimate leader of the country, urged protesters to keep the pressure on the government “if they dare to kidnap me.”Mr. Maduro has done an about-face and appeared to be striking a more conciliatory tone. He backed down from demanding that all American diplomats leave the country. And his government has refrained from detaining Mr. Guaidó as support for the opposition leader grows at home and abroad.The U.S. and the Taliban wrapped up six days of negotiations to end the 17-year conflict in Afghanistan. Both sides reported progress — a first in nine years of intermittent peace efforts.Details: Though much remains to be ironed out, the deal would kick off a phased withdrawal of American troops in exchange for a Taliban cease-fire. The Taliban would also have to pledge not to allow international terrorist groups to use Afghanistan as a planning hub. How the Taliban would share power with the Afghan government remains to be resolved.Caution: Most observers don’t believe Afghan forces have the ability to stand up against the Taliban without American support, leaving any truce in a precarious state once the U.S. leaves.Another angle: The toll of the war has been immense — at least 62,000 Afghan military and police lives, and possibly as many Taliban lives, and more than 24,000 Afghan civilians killed over the last decade alone. One photographer set out to capture the makeshift prosthetics some Afghans use.Coming this week: The British Parliament votes on amendments to Prime Minister Theresa May’s latest Brexit plan, and the U.S. Federal Reserve meets (but will probably hold off on raising interest rates).Philippines: Two bombs exploded at a cathedral on the southern island of Jolo, killing 20 people and wounding many others, officials said. The attack came days after voters had rejected a bid to include the Jolo in a Muslim autonomous area, sparking fears of separatist reprisals.Indonesia: At least 68 people have died and nearly 7,000 have taken refuge in emergency shelters on the island of Sulawesi after floods, landslides and a tornado battered the region last week.Facebook: Mark Zuckerberg plans to merge all of the social media platform’s messaging services — WhatsApp, Instagram and Messenger — at a time when the company has been scarred by scandal. The services will continue to operate as stand-alone apps but will be more unified, allowing users to communicate across the platforms.Brazil: A dam in southeastern town of Brumadinho collapsed, leaving 34 people dead and almost 300 missing in the deadliest mining accident in the country’s history.Gandhi: Around the world, the man who led India into independence is still revered as a peaceful revolutionary. But his halo has dimmed for the Hindu right and lower castes.Germany: A panel drawn from the power industry, environmental movement, miners and local interest groups laid out a plan to end the country’s use of coal power within two decades, the most significant national attempt yet to reduce carbon emissions.The Holocaust: On her way to visit Auschwitz, our reporter found “Heil Hitler” signs and other Nazi swag at a flea market in Poland, where laws regulating such sales are little enforced.Australian Open: In a stunning career revival, Novak Djokovic beat Rafael Nadal for his 15th Grand Slam title. And Naomi Osaka became the first Asian player to clinch a No. 1 ranking globally after defeating Petra Kvitova for her second Grand Slam title.Amazon: “Vine Voices” — trusted product reviewers the company has designated since 2007 — have become a powerful yet secretive force on the e-commerce platform.Taj Mahal: In an effort to stop mischievous monkeys from attacking tourists near the famous landmark, Indian security guards are turning to an unusual weapon of choice — slingshots.#ThankGodIt’sMonday? A new workplace culture has emerged in recent years that glorifies the hustle and encourages employees to put in long hours. Our technology reporter considers whether that’s sustainable.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: For a quick dinner, make soba noodles into a salad with edamame, carrots and spinach.You can silence notifications on your phone without missing the really important ones.Intense exercise could reduce your interest in food, some studies suggest.Happy Data Privacy Day!Or, maybe not so happy. In the years since the celebration was born in Europe and then adopted in the U.S. and Canada, digital privacy has become a mainstream concern.This writer covers personal tech for a living. And I’ve lost count of how many times hackers have breached companies’ computer systems and stolen customer’s credit card numbers, and worse. (Thanks, Equifax, Marriott and Facebook.)Digital privacy is no joke. If you do one thing to protect your data today — or this week, or this year — set aside a few hours to beef up the strength of your passwords.Make sure every password you use for logging in to a site or an app is unique and complex. Password management apps like 1Password or LastPass make it easy, by letting you use one master password to access a vault of all your passwords.Trust me, you’ll feel a lot better.Brian X. Chen, the lead consumer technology writer at The Times, wrote today’s Back Story.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.Alisha Haridasani Gupta writes the Morning Briefing.  @alisha__g 

Supported byBy Annie Karni and Maggie HabermanWASHINGTON — For two years, Roger J. Stone Jr. has seemed like the most obvious suspect in an old-fashioned mystery, the self-described dirty trickster taunting the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, to come at him while selling T-shirts proclaiming his innocence.Mr. Stone has tried to write himself into history since he worked on the re-election campaign of President Richard M. Nixon, whose face is tattooed between his shoulder blades, and his critics say he often overstates his own role in the dark arts of politics. But Mr. Stone set his sights on becoming a celebrity, and when F.B.I. agents burst into his Fort Lauderdale, Fla., home on Friday morning to take him into custody, he found himself where he has always wanted to be — center stage.Emerging from the courthouse after his arraignment, Mr. Stone, dressed in a plain navy blue cotton polo shirt and bluejeans, threw up his arms in a Nixon-esque victory salute and shouted what has been the mantra of his colorful career.“I have always said, the only thing worse than being talked about is not being talked about,” Mr. Stone said, announcing that he would plead not guilty and accusing the F.B.I. SWAT team that burst into his house of terrorizing his wife and two Yorkies.[Read more about Mr. Stone’s arrest and the charges against him.]Court papers suggested that Mr. Stone’s claims that he was somehow connected to the timing of WikiLeaks’ release of emails that damaged Hillary Clinton’s 2016 presidential campaign may have been more than just puffery or swagger.In an interview after he was released from custody, Mr. Stone said he believed that “these charges are politically motivated,” and called them trumped up to compensate for the special counsel’s inability to prove collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia.“Roger has been so skillful over the years at feeding the legend that Mueller believed him, or at least conveniently wanted to,” Matt Labash, a conservative who wrote a definitive profile of Mr. Stone for The Weekly Standard in 2007, said on Friday.During the 2016 campaign, Mr. Stone played up his role as a conduit to Julian Assange, the WikiLeaks founder, suggesting they had spoken and that he had advance knowledge of the website’s publication of hacked emails from John Podesta, the chairman of the Clinton campaign. He also exchanged messages on Twitter with Guccifer 2.0, a pseudonym used by Russian intelligence agents to scheme and steal emails and direct them to WikiLeaks.“It will soon” be “the Podesta’s time in the barrel,” Mr. Stone tweeted in August 2016, ahead of WikiLeaks’ publication of Mr. Podesta’s emails. The tweet was taken as a reference to Mr. Podesta; Mr. Stone has insisted he was referring to the Podesta brothers, including Tony Podesta, a prominent lobbyist.Mr. Stone has since been suspended from Twitter, and also at times changed his story, claiming that he had no direct knowledge that Russians were responsible for the hacking of the Democrats, and retracting his claim that he had personally communicated with Mr. Assange. He has described it as merely an attempt to promote himself.Mr. Stone’s tactics of claiming credit for scandal-mongering and then vanishing from the scene of the crime go back decades.In 2007, he resigned as a political aide to a top New York Republican lawmaker after being accused of leaving a threatening voice mail message for Bernard Spitzer, the father of Gov. Eliot Spitzer.In the profanity-laced message, he allegedly told the elder Mr. Spitzer, who had Parkinson’s disease, that he would be “compelled by the Senate sergeant-at-arms” to testify about “shady campaign loans” made to his son during a failed campaign for attorney general in 1994, and that he would be “arrested and brought to Albany” if he resisted.Mr. Stone denied the charges, claiming as an alibi that he was at the Broadway show “Frost/Nixon” the night of the alleged call. But Mr. Stone was undaunted when it turned out that the play was dark that Monday. “My wife already reminded me I actually saw the play on a Wednesday,” he said. “I still recommend the play to the governor.”But his war with the Spitzer family was not over. In 2008, after Mr. Spitzer resigned from office after he was caught on a federal wiretap arranging to meet high-priced prostitutes, Mr. Stone claimed credit for spreading the rumor that the governor wore his black dress socks during his sexual encounters with prostitutes, an indelible image that has stuck to Mr. Spitzer.Mr. Stone began burnishing his legend as a 19-year-old political wunderkind willing to break the rules.Using a pseudonym, he made political contributions from the Young Socialist Alliance to the Republican challenging Mr. Nixon for the party’s nomination in 1972, Pete McCloskey. He then presented the campaign donation to a newspaper as proof that Mr. Nixon’s opponent was a puppet of the left. He also hired an operative to try to infiltrate the campaign of George McGovern, the Democratic nominee. That prank cost him a job with Senator Bob Dole.But he was hardly recognized for his efforts. The Nixon Foundation, pointing out his age at the time, said on Friday that any characterization of him as a Nixon campaign aide or adviser was “a gross misstatement.”Mr. Stone’s willingness to toe the line between playfulness and villainy was not something he outgrew.He wrote online columns and had his own website. A man who took pride in his natty clothes like custom suits with wide pinstripes and broad lapels, Mr. Stone published an annual “best dressed” column in The Daily Caller, the conservative website. Before he was suspended from Twitter, Mr. Stone used the site to play out long-running gags. For instance, he pretended that his friend and associate Randy Credico was dead and tweeted about it frequently, even having mass cards printed about his passing. Mr. Credico is referenced in the indictment of Mr. Stone, but not by name.His texts with Mr. Credico showed him urging his friend to “do a Frank Pentangeli,” a reference to a character in “The Godfather: Part II.” In the movie, the character lies to a congressional committee to avoid damaging the head of the mafia family, Michael Corleone.But in his dealings with President Trump’s campaign, Mr. Stone’s appetite for pushing the limits of the law finally crossed a line, prosecutors said.“Roger has a long track record of self-destructive behavior, and he is more often than not his own worst enemy,” said Morgan Pehme, the journalist and filmmaker who helped write and direct the Netflix documentary “Get Me Roger Stone,” which was released last year. “This indictment seems to reflect that trend in his life.”Mr. Stone’s high jinks did not prevent him from at one point becoming part of the Washington establishment. Alongside Paul Manafort, the former Trump campaign chairman convicted of financial fraud, he created the powerhouse consulting firm Black, Manafort and Stone in the 1980s. The firm, a product of Reagan-era Washington, helped create the “swamp” culture of selling influence, representing, among other clients, dictators and foreign political parties that were accused of ties to drug trafficking.One of their early clients was Mr. Trump, who had been introduced to Mr. Stone by Roy Cohn, Mr. Trump’s longtime lawyer and mentor, who also counted Mr. Stone as one of his protégés.Their relationship, over the years, has proved to be fraught but durable, marked by repeated falling-outs and reconciliations. In 2011, Mr. Stone was involved in Mr. Trump’s deliberations over running against President Barack Obama. He gave interviews saying that Mr. Trump had billions to spend on a campaign, and laid out a message that was close to Mr. Trump’s “Make America Great Again” slogan of 2016. But when Mr. Stone got too much attention, Mr. Trump told reporters that his adviser was not speaking for him.Mr. Trump eventually opted out of a race in 2012, choosing instead to continue on with his reality show, “The Apprentice.” When Mr. Trump briefly explored a potential run for governor in New York in 2013, Mr. Stone advised against it. Mr. Stone was one of the few early aides involved in the 2015 race until he quit a few months into the campaign; Mr. Trump insisted Mr. Stone was fired.Since taking office, Mr. Trump has at times become enraged at what he sees as excessive news media attention surrounding Mr. Stone. People close to the president have long maintained that he is leery of his old adviser, only interested in keeping Mr. Stone near enough that he would not feel cast aside. Yet time and again, Mr. Trump — who refers to him as “Rog” — would turn to his old friend.Ultimately, the question from the indictment is what the campaign — and Mr. Trump — may have known about Mr. Stone’s correspondence.In Mr. Pehme’s documentary, Mr. Manafort was filmed at length discussing how intertwined Mr. Stone is with the president. “It’s hard to define what’s Roger and what’s Donald,” Mr. Manafort says in the film. “They both see the world in a very similar way.”Speaking outside federal court, appearing unbowed, and even to be taking pleasure in the spectacle, Mr. Stone said he would not testify against the president. “I am one of his oldest friends,” he said. “I am a fervent supporter of the president.”Due to an editing error, a previous version of this article misidentified the organization that disputed characterizations of Mr. Stone as a Nixon campaign aide or adviser. It was the Nixon Foundation, not the Nixon Library.

Supported byYou can talk to me for five minutes while I’m walking to my car.By Julie SchumacherStudents will draft and revise two short stories during the semester, familiarizing themselves with the elements of fiction by reading and discussing the assigned texts. Because of instructor resentment and fatigue (this is my final semester — despite a novel and a chapbook of poetry both relatively well received, my teaching contract has not been renewed), student writing will not exceed 15 pages. Unacceptable topics and approaches in this class will include:anything written from the point of view of an animal or inanimate object (this includes talking body parts)stories that begin with the ringing of an alarm clock or a group of characters gathered around an open gravesex beyond the PG-13 ratinginclusion of characters who resemble — in name or description — the instructor or any member of this classserial killers, bloodletting or acts of violence involving lawn mowers, axes, cudgels, guillotines or scythesNote: If an instructor at this or any other institution has ever asked you not to do it in his or her classroom, don’t do it here.If you think I can’t distinguish your own short story from a published work you downloaded from a magazine, please see Clint Eastwood as Dirty Harry (“Make my day”).Speak to her immediately before or after class. Your other option — given that I no longer have an office and am teaching at three institutions of higher learning, driving like a madwoman from one campus to the next in an effort to cobble together a living wage — will be to flag me down on Route 16 before I enter the highway.“Cortlandt Anthology of 20th and 21st Century Fiction”Griggs-Massey’s “Guide to Grammar and Style”Note: The instructor will not be assigning the self-published novel “Through the Wild Dreaming Night” by Prof. Arnold R. Young. This novel was for many years on the “required list” for introductory fiction, but this instructor cannot in good conscience continue to inflict it on undergraduates. Through Professor Young’s temporary and capricious patronage I have survived on white bread and tuna in an apartment the size of a closet for the past two years; given my nonrenewal of contract, I am no longer obliged to pretend to respect his work.Via writing exercises and discussion, students will gain an appreciation for plot, character, setting, mood, tone, dialogue, chronology, structure, tension, etc. They will experience the short story as a brief immersion in the lives and experiences of others — a vehicle for insight. Students may come to understand, for example, why a 39-year-old woman, graduate degree in hand and reasonably attractive, would allow herself to be seduced by a potbellied has-been 20 years her senior, a scholar-cum-novelist who, after buying her a number of drinks at a conference, persuaded her to relocate from a reasonable metropolitan area to a splotch on the prairie, only to reunite, two and a half weeks after her arrival, with an almost-ex-wife he had somehow neglected to mention.Criteria for evaluating fiction will be discussed in class. To those who would raise the bugaboo of subjectivity or instructor favoritism, please see the classroom motto: Life Is Not Fair. Though the instructor promises to do her best to evaluate student work according to clearly defined standards and procedures, students should note that this represents a break from the way in which business is conducted on campus. See, for example, my recent performance review, a vengeful hack job written by a member of the faculty not to be identified here (but recognizable by her badly dyed bouffant and her marriage to the scholar-cum-novelist referred to above).These will be issued in class, week by week. The instructor has found that spontaneity is often best, keeping the student reader in suspense and creating the impression that anything might happen: Imagine, for instance, a gloved hand reaching for a knife, and the next thing we know a body is dappled in blood as if in red sunshine, his hoary bulk splayed across a desk in a modest office cluttered with manuscripts … but suddenly the alarm clock erupts with a —Note: Syllabus and classroom policies are subject to change.Julie Schumacher, a creative writing instructor at the University of Minnesota, is the author of the novel “Dear Committee Members.” Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.



      By GAIL COLLINS

JAN. 16, 2019

So much has happened. Find out whether you’re up to speed.
In our never-ending search for cheerful news, today we note that Donald Trump’s nominee for attorney general says the Mueller probe is not a “witch hunt.”On the downside, William Barr doesn’t seem to think the final Mueller report on Trump’s Russia ties should be made public. While the innate leakiness of Washington will overcome this problem, it’s still a bad attitude. We’ve been waiting so long for that report to actually come out, we’re in danger of forgetting everything Robert Mueller was supposed to investigate.So let’s try to get back up to speed on all things Russia. Well, some. Pick the right answer:The Trump World Tower Moscow is …Donald’s longtime dream project, which would definitely have required the support of Putin insiders.Site of the low-budget Russian reality show “Celebrity Apprentice Bellhop.”New Monopoly game piece.Michael Cohen is …Creator of the brand-new government “Go Fund Everybody” site.Trump lawyer who says he was still negotiating with the Russians on a hotel deal during the presidential campaign.Former aide the president recently called a “silly little turtle” on Fox.Dmitry Peskov is …Putin press secretary who talked with Michael Cohen about getting Russian government support for Trump World Tower Moscow.Putin press secretary who, to celebrate his wedding, wore a $620,000 gold-skull watch that critics said was worth more than four times his annual salary.Both.Paul Manafort is …Trump fashion coordinator.Former Trump horse trainer who quit when Donald made his colt run with a sore leg.Former Trump campaign chairman who had a very extensive history of lobbying for pro-Russian autocrats.Manafort seems to have shared campaign polling data with the Russians. His lawyers say he didn’t mention that to federal investigators because …He wanted to save the story for his Netflix biopic.It wasn’t the sort of thing he’d remember.The Russians assured him they’d bring it to the attention of all the proper authorities.After the Republican nominating convention, Trump said he wished Russia would find Hillary Clinton’s missing emails. That day …Things went on pretty much as usual.Trump apologized and said that even for a joke, it was in bad taste.The Russians attempted to break into Clinton’s personal email servers.“Somebody sitting on their bed that weighs 400 pounds” …Christian Bale’s description of his next transformative part in a potential Oscar-winning movie.Donald Trump’s theory about who might have been hacking Democratic campaign servers.Physician’s warning about where Trump will be if he doesn’t give up his late-night snacking.Natalia Veselnitskaya …Won Eurovision Song Contest with her hit “The Donald Made Me Do It.”Russian lawyer who met with Donald Jr., Jared and Manafort after promising “very high level and sensitive information” about Hillary Clinton.Melania’s tennis partner at Mar-a-Lago.A “nothingburger” is …Special meal served to Clemson football team at the White House.Administration description of Donald Jr.’s meeting with the Russian lawyer who promised dirt on Hillary Clinton.Proposed menu item for the restaurant in Trump World Tower Moscow.Sergey Kislyak is …Former Russian ambassador to U.S. who talked with former Trump national security adviser Michael Flynn about opening a back channel to Moscow.Well-known professional wrestling star who appears on stage wearing a wolf-pelt coat.Kremlin artist who created the popular picture of a bare-chested Vladimir Putin scoring a hockey goal with an eagle on his shoulder.Dmitry Klokov is …A Russian athlete who once starred in “Celebrity Weight Lifter Apprentice.”The guy who reportedly told Ivanka he would introduce her father to Putin to help get that hotel deal done.Villain in next “Mission: Impossible” sequel.George Papadopoulos is …Host of ABC’s Sunday morning news show.Member of the Congressional Problem Solvers caucus.Foreign policy adviser to Trump campaign who tried 
to arrange a meeting between Team Trump and Putin people.We worry about Trump’s relationship with Putin because the five times they’ve met  …The president insisted on calling Putin “Vlad-arino.”The president grabbed all the notes of their conversations and swallowed them.Trump frequently behaved more like a smitten suitor than a head of state.

Supported byBy David E. Sanger, Julian E. Barnes, Raymond Zhong and Marc SantoraJeremy Hunt, the British foreign minister, arrived in Washington last week for a whirlwind of meetings facing a critical question: Should Britain risk its relationship with Beijing and agree to the Trump administration’s request to ban Huawei, China’s leading telecommunications producer, from building its next-generation computer and phone networks?Britain is not the only American ally feeling the heat. In Poland, officials are also under pressure from the United States to bar Huawei from building its fifth generation, or 5G, network. Trump officials suggested that future deployments of American troops — including the prospect of a permanent base labeled “Fort Trump” — could hinge on Poland’s decision.And a delegation of American officials showed up last spring in Germany, where most of Europe’s giant fiber-optic lines connect and Huawei wants to build the switches that make the system hum. Their message: Any economic benefit of using cheaper Chinese telecom equipment is outweighed by the security threat to the NATO alliance.Over the past year, the United States has embarked on a stealthy, occasionally threatening, global campaign to prevent Huawei and other Chinese firms from participating in the most dramatic remaking of the plumbing that controls the internet since it sputtered into being, in pieces, 35 years ago.The administration contends that the world is engaged in a new arms race — one that involves technology, rather than conventional weaponry, but poses just as much danger to America’s national security. In an age when the most powerful weapons, short of nuclear arms, are cyber-controlled, whichever country dominates 5G will gain an economic, intelligence and military edge for much of this century.The transition to 5G — already beginning in prototype systems in cities from Dallas to Atlanta — is likely to be more revolutionary than evolutionary. What consumers will notice first is that the network is faster — data should download almost instantly, even over cellphone networks.It is the first network built to serve the sensors, robots, autonomous vehicles and other devices that will continuously feed each other vast amounts of data, allowing factories, construction sites and even whole cities to be run with less moment-to-moment human intervention. It will also enable greater use of virtual reality and artificial intelligence tools.But what is good for consumers is also good for intelligence services and cyberattackers. The 5G system is a physical network of switches and routers. But it is more reliant on layers of complex software that are far more adaptable, and constantly updating, in ways invisible to users — much as an iPhone automatically updates while charging overnight. That means whoever controls the networks controls the information flow — and may be able to change, reroute or copy data without users’ knowledge.In interviews with current and former senior American government officials, intelligence officers and top telecommunications executives, it is clear that the potential of 5G has created a zero-sum calculus in the Trump White House — a conviction that there must be a single winner in this arms race, and the loser must be banished. For months, the White House has been drafting an executive order, expected in the coming weeks, that would effectively ban United States companies from using Chinese-origin equipment in critical telecommunications networks. That goes far beyond the existing rules, which ban such equipment only from government networks.Nervousness about Chinese technology has long existed in the United States, fueled by the fear that the Chinese could insert a “back door” into telecom and computing networks that would allow Chinese security services to intercept military, government and corporate communications. And Chinese cyberintrusions of American companies and government entities have occurred repeatedly, including by hackers suspected of working on behalf of China’s Ministry of State Security.But the concern has taken on more urgency as countries around the world begin deciding which equipment providers will build their 5G networks.American officials say the old process of looking for “back doors” in equipment and software made by Chinese companies is the wrong approach, as is searching for ties between specific executives and the Chinese government. The bigger issue, they argue, is the increasingly authoritarian nature of the Chinese government, the fading line between independent business and the state and new laws that will give Beijing the power to look into, or maybe even take over, networks that companies like Huawei have helped build and maintain.“It’s important to remember that Chinese company relationships with the Chinese government aren’t like private sector company relationships with governments in the West,” said William R. Evanina, the director of America’s National Counterintelligence and Security Center. “China’s 2017 National Intelligence Law requires Chinese companies to support, provide assistance and cooperate in China’s national intelligence work, wherever they operate.”The White House’s focus on Huawei coincides with the Trump administration’s broader crackdown on China, which has involved sweeping tariffs on Chinese goods, investment restrictions and the indictments of several Chinese nationals accused of hacking and cyberespionage. President Trump has accused China of “ripping off our country” and plotting to grow stronger at America’s expense.Mr. Trump’s views, combined with a lack of hard evidence implicating Huawei in any espionage, have prompted some countries to question whether America’s campaign is really about national security or if it is aimed at preventing China from gaining a competitive edge.Administration officials see little distinction in those goals.“President Trump has identified overcoming this economic problem as critical, not simply to right the balance economically, to make China play by the rules everybody else plays by, but to prevent an imbalance in political/military power in the future as well,” John R. Bolton, Mr. Trump’s national security adviser, told The Washington Times on Friday. “The two aspects are very closely tied together in his mind.”The administration is warning allies that the next six months are critical. Countries are beginning to auction off radio spectrum for new, 5G cellphone networks and decide on multibillion-dollar contracts to build the underlying switching systems. This past week, the Federal Communications Commission announced that it had concluded its first high-band 5G spectrum auction.The Chinese government sees this moment as its chance to wire the world — especially European, Asian and African nations that find themselves increasingly beholden to Chinese economic power.“This will be almost more important than electricity,” said Chris Lane, a telecom analyst in Hong Kong for Sanford C. Bernstein. “Everything will be connected, and the central nervous system of these smart cities will be your 5G network.”So far, the fear swirling around Huawei is almost entirely theoretical. Current and former American officials whisper that classified reports implicate the company in possible Chinese espionage but have produced none publicly. Others familiar with the secret case against the company say there is no smoking gun — just a heightened concern about the firm’s rising technological dominance and the new Chinese laws that require Huawei to submit to requests from Beijing.Ren Zhengfei, Huawei’s founder, has denied that his company spied for China. “I still love my country. I support the Communist Party of China. But I will never do anything to harm any other nation,” he said earlier this month.Australia last year banned Huawei and another Chinese manufacturer, ZTE, from supplying 5G equipment. Other nations are wrestling with whether to follow suit and risk inflaming China, which could hamper their access to the growing Chinese market and deprive them of cheaper Huawei products.Government officials in places like Britain note that Huawei has already invested heavily in older-style networks — and has employed Britons to build and run them. And they argue that Huawei isn’t going away — it will run the networks of half the world, or more, and will have to be connected, in some way, to the networks of the United States and its allies.Yet BT Group, the British telecom giant, has plans to rip out part of Huawei’s existing network. The company says that was part of its plans after acquiring a firm that used existing Huawei equipment; American officials say it came after Britain’s intelligence services warned of growing risks. And Vodafone Group, which is based in London, said on Friday that it would temporarily stop buying Huawei equipment for parts of its 5G network.Nations have watched warily as China has retaliated against countries that cross it. In December, Canada arrested a top Huawei executive, Meng Wanzhou, at the request of the United States. Ms. Meng, who is Mr. Ren’s daughter, has been accused of defrauding banks to help Huawei’s business evade sanctions against Iran. Since her arrest, China has detained two Canadian citizens and sentenced to death a third Canadian, who had previously been given 15 years in prison for drug smuggling.“Europe is fascinating because they have to take sides,” said Philippe Le Corre, nonresident senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. “They are in the middle. All these governments, they need to make decisions. Huawei is everywhere.”This month, the Polish government made two high-profile espionage arrests: a former intelligence official, Piotr Durbajlo, and Wang Weijing, an employee of Huawei. The arrests are the strongest evidence so far that links Huawei with spying activities.Mr. Wang, who was quickly fired by Huawei, has been accused of working for Chinese intelligence agencies, said a top former Polish intelligence official. Mr. Wang, according to American diplomats, was the handler of Mr. Durbajlo, who appears to have helped the Chinese penetrate the Polish government’s most secure communications network.A senior American official said the case was a prime example of how the Chinese government plants intelligence operatives inside Huawei’s vast global network. Those operatives potentially have access to overseas communications networks and can conduct espionage that the affected companies are not aware of, the official said.Huawei said Mr. Wang had brought “disrepute” on the company and his actions had nothing to do with its operations.Mr. Wang’s lawyer, Bartlomiej Jankowski, says his client has been caught up in a geopolitical tug of war between the United States and China.American and British officials had already grown concerned about Huawei’s abilities after cybersecurity experts, combing through the company’s source code to look for back doors, determined that Huawei could remotely access and control some networks from the company’s Shenzhen headquarters.On careful examination, the code that Huawei had installed in its network-control software did not appear to be malicious. Nor was it hidden. It appeared to be part of a system to update remote networks and diagnose trouble. But in some circumstances, it could also route traffic around corporate data centers — where firms monitor and control their networks — and its mere existence is now cited as evidence that hackers or Chinese intelligence could use Huawei equipment to penetrate millions of networks.American officials and academics say Chinese telecommunications companies have also temporarily hijacked parts of the internet, rerouting basic traffic from the United States and Canada to China.One academic paper, co-written by Chris C. Demchak, a Naval War College professor, outlined how traffic from Canada meant for South Korea was redirected to China for six months. That 2016 attack has been repeated, according to American officials, and provides opportunity for espionage.Last year, AT&amp;T and Verizon stopped selling Huawei phones in their stores after Huawei begin equipping the devices with its own sets of computer chips — rather than relying on American or European manufacturers. The National Security Agency quietly raised alarms that with Huawei supplying its own parts, the Chinese company would control every major element of its networks. The N.S.A. feared it would no longer be able to rely on American and European providers to warn of any evidence of malware, spying or other covert action.In three decades, Huawei has transformed itself from a small reseller of low-end phone equipment into a global giant with a dominant position in one of the crucial technologies of the new century.Last year, Huawei edged out Apple as the second-biggest provider of cellphones around the world. Richard Yu, who heads the company’s consumer business, said in Beijing several days ago that “even without the U.S. market we will be No. 1 in the world,” by the end of this year or sometime in 2020.The company was founded in 1987 by Mr. Ren, a former People’s Liberation Army engineer who has become one of China’s most successful entrepreneurs.American officials say the company started through imitation, and even theft, of American technology. Cisco Systems sued Huawei in 2003, saying it had illegally copied the American company’s source code. The two companies settled out of court.But Huawei did not just imitate. It opened research centers (including one in California) and built alliances with leading universities around the world. Last year, it generated $100 billion in revenue, twice as much as Cisco and significantly more than IBM. Its ability to deliver well-made equipment at a lower cost than Western firms drove once-dominant players like Motorola and Lucent out of the telecom-equipment industry.While American officials refuse to discuss it, the government snooping was a two-way street. As early as 2010, the N.S.A. secretly broke into Huawei’s headquarters, in an operation, code-named “Shotgiant,” a discovery revealed by Edward J. Snowden, the former N.S.A. contractor now living in exile in Moscow.Documents show that the N.S.A. was looking to prove suspicions that Huawei was secretly controlled by the People’s Liberation Army — and that Mr. Ren never really left the powerful army unit. It never found the evidence, according to former officials. But the Snowden documents also show that the N.S.A. had another goal: to better understand Huawei’s technology and look for potential back doors. This way, when the company sold equipment to American adversaries, the N.S.A. would be able to target those nations’ computer and telephone networks to conduct surveillance and, if necessary, offensive cyberoperations.In other words, the Americans were trying to do to Huawei the exact thing they are now worried Huawei will do to the United States.After an uproar in 2013 about Huawei’s growing dominance in Britain, the country’s powerful Intelligence and Security Committee, a parliamentary body, argued for banning Huawei, partly because of Chinese cyberattacks aimed at the British government. It was overruled, but Britain created a system to require that Huawei make its hardware and source code available to GCHQ, the country’s famous code-breaking agency.In July, Britain’s National Cyber Security Center for the first time said publicly that questions about Huawei’s current practices and the complexity and dynamism of the new 5G networks meant it would be difficult to find vulnerabilities.At roughly the same time, the N.S.A., at a series of classified meetings with telecommunications executives, had to decide whether to let Huawei bid for parts of the American 5G networks. AT&amp;T and Verizon argued there was value in letting Huawei set up a “test bed” in the United States since it would have to reveal the source code for its networking software. Allowing Huawei to bid would also drive the price of building the networks down, they argued.The director of the N.S.A. at the time, Adm. Michael S. Rogers, never approved the move and Huawei was blocked.In July 2018, with these decisions swirling, Britain, the United States and other members of the “Five Eyes” intelligence-sharing alliance met for their annual meeting in Halifax, Nova Scotia, where Chinese telecommunications companies, Huawei and 5G networks were at the top of the agenda. They decided on joint action to try to block the company from building new networks in the West.American officials are trying to make clear with allies around the world that the war with China is not just about trade but a battle to protect the national security of the world’s leading democracies and key NATO members.On Tuesday, the heads of American intelligence agencies will appear before the Senate to deliver their annual threat assessment, and they are expected to cite 5G investments by Chinese telecom companies, including Huawei, as a threat.In Poland, the message has quietly been delivered that countries that use Chinese telecommunications networks would be unsafe for American troops, according to people familiar with the internal discussions.That has gotten Poland’s attention, given that its president, Andrzej Duda, visited the White House in September and presented a plan to build a $2 billion base and training area, which Mr. Duda only half-jokingly called “Fort Trump.”Col. Grzegorz Malecki, now retired, who was the head of the Foreign Intelligence Agency in Poland, said it was understandable that the United States would want to avoid potentially compromising its troops.“And control over the 5G network is such a potentially dangerous tool,” said Mr. Malecki, now board president of the Institute of Security and Strategy. “From Poland’s perspective, securing this troop presence outweighs all other concerns.”Adam Satariano, Joanna Berendt and Katie Benner contributed reporting.

Supported byWhat to BuyYou need resolve more than equipment to make your resolutions real, but a few special things can keep you inspired and use those gift cards you got for the holidays.By Alan HenryLet’s be real: You may or may not keep the New Year’s resolutions you made, but the start of a new year is as good as any opportunity for a fresh start. So whether you’re headed to the gym for the first time in six months, or you’re planning to make some headway on your to-do list, here are a few things to help you along. They’ll let you focus more on getting things done and less on getting ready to get things done. You probably already use a to-do app to stay organized, but there’s a good case to be made for using a paper planner. You don’t have to give up the convenience of an app, but our brains engage with pen and paper differently when we take notes in a meeting or brainstorm new ideas. So if you, like me, plan to bring a nice pen and notebook to more meetings in the new year (even as we resolve to deal with fewer meetings, if we can), Wirecutter has us covered with recommendations for quality notebooks to jot our thoughts, ideas and doodles in. If you want a 2019 paper planner, here are the best ones to look for. You’ll need something to write with, of course. I am a big fan of fountain pens, which have a bit of a cult following even among those more accustomed to typing than writing. If you want in on the trend, Wirecutter suggests (as do I) the Lamy Safari — it’s a great gateway fountain pen. If you want something a little more traditional, here are some other pen options, and even some pencils.If going to the gym, or just working out, is a priority this year, you don’t need me to tell you what sweats to buy, or that you’ll need gym clothes. But make sure you get a good gym bag, pack it with your gear and leave it somewhere conspicuous. My best “make sure you actually go to the gym” hack has always been to pre-pack my gym bag with the things I need for a good workout (you know, a good water bottle, workout headphones, a quick-drying towel) and leave the bag somewhere I’ll virtually trip over. When I drove to work, I kept it in the back seat, where I normally toss my laptop bag after a long day, which reminded me I should hit the gym before returning home. Now that I commute by train, I leave it next to the door so it stares at me when I walk in after work. Go ahead and get all the new gym gear you want if it’ll help motivate you to work out, but don’t trust yourself to remember to use it. Give your willpower a little boost from past you. Future you will thank you for it. If there’s anything I would recommend we all do in 2019, it’s get not just more sleep, but better sleep. What good is getting 10 hours of sleep if you still wake up feeling like everything hurts and you’re dying? If you need help sleeping better, we have you covered. We have a complete guide to getting a good night’s sleep, and even some upgrades to help you get better sleep, like white noise machines and sleep tracking apps. Another key trick is finding a good eye mask. Wirecutter likes the Nidra Deep Rest, which I can also vouch for, especially when traveling. If the whole “eye cup” design puts you off, it also mentions the Alaska Bear, which is super soft and flat, and the mask I use when I’ve lost the Deep Rest somewhere under my bed or between my pillows. The new year is also a great time to refresh your bedding, so consider grabbing some fresh, crisp sheets and new pillows. You can probably even find some linen sales right about now — they’re usually called “white sales,” and January is full of them. Total darkness, crisp bedding and a fluffy pillow will make sure that the hours you do spend in bed are quality ones — ones you can regularly wake up refreshed from this year.What to Buy is a new series in collaboration with Wirecutter, the New York Times Company that reviews products. Want buying advice from the experts, or need help picking out the right thing for the right job? Email me at alan.henry@nytimes.com and we’ll look into it for you!Alan Henry is the editor of Smarter Living, a section that aims to help readers live better, healthier, happier lives. Before joining The Times, he was editor-in-chief of Lifehacker. He is based in New York.  @halophoenix 

Supported byDigital media has always been a turbulent business, but last week’s layoffs suggest a reason for panic. By Farhad ManjooOpinion ColumnistWorking in digital media is like trying to build a fort out of marshmallows on a foundation made of marbles in a country ruled by capricious and tyrannical warring robots. I’ve toiled in this business for nearly 20 years, and even in the best of times it has been a squeamish and skittering ride, the sort of career you’d counsel your kids to avoid in favor of something less volatile and more enduring — bitcoin mining, perhaps. It might be tempting, then, to dismiss the recent spate of media-biz layoffs as unfortunate but otherwise not concerning. Two hundred workers, including dozens of journalists, were given the slip last week at BuzzFeed. About 800 people are losing their jobs in the media division of Verizon, the telephone company that owns Yahoo, HuffPost, TechCrunch and many other “content brands.” And Gannett, the once-mighty newspaper empire that owns USA Today and hundreds of smaller outlets — from The Bergen County Record to The Zanesville Times Recorder — is letting go of 400.But it would be a mistake to regard these cuts as the ordinary chop of a long-roiling digital media sea. Instead, they are a devastation. [Farhad Manjoo answered your questions on Twitter.]The cause of each company’s troubles may be distinct, but collectively the blood bath points to the same underlying market pathology: the inability of the digital advertising business to make much meaningful room for anyone but monopolistic tech giants.Coming in a time of economic prosperity, at world-historical levels of interest in the news, last week’s cuts tell a story of impending slow-motion doom — and a democratic emergency in the making, with no end in sight.Consider: We are in the midst of a persistent global information war. We live our lives on technologies that sow distrust and fakery, that admit little room for nuance and complication, that slice us up into ignorant and bleating tribes. It is an era that should be ripe for journalists and for the business of journalism — a profession that, though it errs often, is the best way we know of inoculating ourselves against the suffocating deluge of rumor and mendacity.And for a while, it looked like we could do that. The past half decade has been a season of bold and optimistic innovation in media. In addition to the Trump bump, there was new money from venture capitalists, and giants in cable and telecom. Big brands, looking to attract millennials, began to spend haltingly and then generously on advertising, leading to a Cambrian explosion of new sites, new formats, new business models. And consumers began opening up their wallets to support journalism, turning around the fortunes of The New York Times.Many in the industry remain optimistic about these ways forward. There’s a doubling-down on subscriptions, a rush to podcasts and high-end video, and a return to smaller and more calculated media ventures, like Bill Simmons’s tiny but profitable start-up, The Ringer. Then there is the charity of digital billionaires. The Craig Newmark Graduate School of Journalism, Jeff Bezos’ Washington Post, Laurene Powell Jobs’s Atlantic magazine, Marc Benioff’s Time and Farhad Manjoo’s Color Me Skeptical That the Billionaires Who Got Us Into This Mess Will Save Us Gazette.But it takes only a quick jaunt through the particulars of last week’s layoffs to snuff out much reason for optimism.In the cuts at Gannett, we see the nearly final evisceration of local news, an institution recognized as democratically vital even by the mainstream media’s most frothing detractors. Gannett’s end now looks nigh; the company is presently laboring under a hostile takeover bid by a secretive hedge fund whose only demonstrated expertise lies in “strip-mining” publications of their final morsels of profit.In the troubles at Verizon, we see a behemoth that tried to take on Google and Facebook. Under a former executive, Tim Armstrong, the phone company bought up Yahoo and other media brands as useful pawns in a strategic war against internet giants. For similar reasons, Comcast has also plowed money into media start-ups.But Verizon quickly learned that Facebook and Google are insurmountable. When new management took over last year, it began dumping the news in favor of readier ways to make money.It’s the cuts at BuzzFeed that sting most. You may regard the site as a purveyor of silly listicles and inane quizzes. I think of it as a relentlessly experimental innovator: It’s the site that gave us The Dress and published The Dossier, a company that pushed the rest of the industry to regard the digital world with seriousness and rigor.More than anyone else in media, BuzzFeed’s founder, Jonah Peretti, bet on symbioses with the tech platforms. He understood that the tech giants would keep getting bigger, but to him that was a feature, not a bug. By creating content that hooked into their algorithms, he imagined BuzzFeed getting bigger — and making money — along with them.At the least, the layoffs suggest the tragic folly of Mr. Peretti’s thinking. Google and Facebook have no economic incentive for symbiosis; everything BuzzFeed can do for them can also be done by the online hordes who’ll make content without pay.So where does that leave media? Bereft. It is the rare publication that can survive on subscriptions, and the rarer one that will be saved by billionaires. Digital media needs a way to profitably serve the masses. If even BuzzFeed couldn’t hack that, we are well and truly hosed.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Farhad Manjoo became an opinion columnist for The Times in 2018. Before that, he wrote the State of the Art column. He is the author of “True Enough: Learning to Live in a Post-Fact Society.”  @fmanjoo • Facebook 

Supported byBy Maureen DowdOpinion ColumnistWASHINGTON — Roger Stone has always lived in a dog-eat-dog world.So it was apt that he was charged with skulduggery in part for threatening to kidnap a therapy dog, a fluffy, sweet-faced Coton de Tuléar, belonging to Randy Credico, a New York radio host.Robert Mueller believes that Credico, a pal of Julian Assange, served as an intermediary with WikiLeaks for Stone. Mueller’s indictment charges that Stone called Credico “a rat” and “a stoolie” because he believed that the radio host was not going to back up what the special counsel says is Stone’s false story about contacts with WikiLeaks, which disseminated Russia’s hacked emails from the D.N.C. and Hillary Clinton’s campaign chairman.Stone emailed Credico that he would “take that dog away from you,” the indictment says, later adding: “I am so ready. Let’s get it on. Prepare to die (expletive).”As the owner of two Yorkies, Stone clearly knows how scary it is when a beloved dog is in harm’s way. When he emerged from court on Friday, he immediately complained that F.B.I. agents had “terrorized” his dogs when they came to arrest him at dawn at his home in Fort Lauderdale.The last thing Stone posted on Instagram before his arrest was a video of a terrier, with a high-pitched voice-over, protesting, “Roger Stone did nothing wrong.”Always bespoke and natty, living by the mantra that it’s better to be infamous than never famous, Stone looked strangely unadorned as he came out of court to meet the press in a navy polo shirt and bluejeans.As the master of darkness who had been captured in darkness stepped into the bright light of Fort Lauderdale, he was his usual flamboyant, unapologetically meretricious self. He proclaimed his innocence, flashed the Nixon victory sign and reiterated the old saw from his mentor, Roy Cohn, that any attention is good attention.But it fell flat. Being Roger Stone had finally caught up with him.He has always said Florida suited him because “it was a sunny place for shady people,” borrowing a Somerset Maugham line. But now the cat’s cradle of lies and dirty tricks had tripped up the putative dognapper. And it went down on the very same day that Paul Manafort — his former associate in a seamy lobbying firm with rancid dictators as clients, and then later his pal in the seamy campaign of Donald Trump — was also in federal court on charges related to the Mueller probe. Manafort’s hair is now almost completely white.One of Stone’s rules — along with soaking his martini olives in vermouth and never wearing a double-breasted suit with a button-down collar — is “Deny, deny, deny.” But his arrest for lying, obstructing and witness tampering raised the inevitable question about his on-and-off friend in the White House, the man who is the last jigsaw-puzzle piece in the investigation of Trumpworld’s alleged coordination with Russia: Is being Donald Trump finally about to catch up with Donald Trump?Stone, who famously has Nixon’s face tattooed on his back, is the agent provocateur who is the through line from the Nixon impeachment articles to the articles about Trump’s possible impeachment.As Manafort said in the 2017 documentary “Get Me Roger Stone,” Trump and Stone “see the world in a very similar way.” And that way is theatrical and cynical. Do whatever you have to do to get what you want; playing by the rules is for suckers.In 1999, when I went on a trip to Miami to watch Trump test the presidential waters, Stone orchestrated Trump’s Castro-bashing speech to Cuban-Americans. The bodybuilding, swinging strategist, christened “the state-of-the-art sleazeball” by The New Republic in the 80s, said he was “a jockey looking for a horse.”Stone, who was mixed up in Watergate at the tender age of 19, “made the transition from the Stone Age of dirty tricks to today,” as David Axelrod puts it.He watched Nixon rally the silent majority with a law-and-order message and racial dog whistling. He helped Ronald Reagan create Reagan Democrats.For decades, believing “past is prologue,” Stone urged Trump to be the successor to those pols, revving up angry, white working-class voters who felt belittled or scared of “the other.” It would be so easy to divide and stoke resentment, as Stone and Trump proved when they inflamed the birther controversy against Barack Obama.“Hate is a stronger motivator than love,” Stone told the documentarians. “Human nature has never changed.”The tribal tensions in America made Stone’s favorite tricks easier than ever; he didn’t have to operate in the shadows. He wore a T-shirt with Bill Clinton and the word “Rape” at 2016 campaign rallies. As Stone boasted in the documentary, his “slash-and-burn” tactics “are now in vogue.”Trump has had periods of estrangement with Stone. In 2008, in an interview with The New Yorker, he called the strategist “a stone-cold loser,” a state Trump himself has been relegated to this past week, courtesy of Nancy Pelosi.Stone will not go gently. When he is asked about the tattoo of Nixon, he says he got it to remind himself, “A man is not finished when he is defeated; he is only finished when he quits.”At the moment, though, dogged by Mueller, Stone and Manafort are the dog’s breakfast. The pair has given practicing the dark arts a bad name.An earlier version of this article misstated the conclusion of impeachment proceedings against Richard Nixon. He resigned before a House vote; he was not impeached.I invite you to follow me on Twitter (@MaureenDowd) and join me on Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. OpinionGail Collins

Supported byTo see this president lose to a woman would start to heal the injury of his repulsive reign.By Michelle GoldbergOpinion ColumnistThe February before the 2016 election, Dan Cassino, a political scientist at Fairleigh Dickinson University, and some of his colleagues tried to measure how threats to traditional masculinity affected male voting behavior.They polled 694 registered voters in New Jersey about their support for various candidates. Half of the respondents were first told that in an increasing number of households, women out-earn men, and they were asked whether that was true in theirs. The researchers expected many men to lie; the point of the question was to get them thinking about shifting gender roles.Presented with a hypothetical matchup between Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump, men who weren’t asked about women’s earning power favored Clinton by 16 points, close to Barack Obama’s 2012 margin of victory in the state. Men who got the question about gender and money, however, favored Trump by eight points. There was no difference between the two groups in the margin of their support for Bernie Sanders versus Trump.“In essence, the threat of losing the traditional norm of men as breadwinners led men to abandon support for the first major-party female candidate in American history and come out in support of her opponent,” wrote Cassino in an article titled “Emasculation, Conservatism and the 2016 Election.”[Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]There are many explanations for Clinton’s loss, including her campaign’s mistakes, Russian hacking and James Comey’s blundering investigation of her email server. But sexism pretty clearly played a role. A fair amount of academic research shows that women who seek power on their own behalf — as presidential candidates necessarily do — evoke what one study called “moral outrage.” When Cassino and his colleagues asked another group of voters to describe the candidates in a single word, the one most often attached to Clinton was “bitch.” Other researchers have found that, even controlling for factors like political ideology, support for Trump correlates with higher levels of “hostile sexism” — the view that women are not just different than men, but inferior.Plenty of women understood intuitively that a misogynist backlash helped Trump win his Electoral College victory. It’s why they poured into the streets the day after he was inaugurated, and why they’ve led the Resistance ever since. It’s why there’s a record gender divide in voting patterns and a record number of Democratic women in the new Congress. And it’s why it’s both thrilling and slightly terrifying that the Democratic presidential field is going to have at least three strong, viable female contenders.On Monday, the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday, Senator Kamala Harris of California announced that she’s running. She joins Senators Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts and Kirsten Gillibrand of New York. (The chameleon-like Representative Tulsi Gabbard of Hawaii, is also running; she’s a onetime darling of the Sanders left who now says Democrats need to compromise more with Trump.)America has never before seen a presidential primary in which this many women compete against one another. It could help to normalize female political ambition, allowing the candidates to be individuals rather than archetypes. Voters who are hungry for female leadership won’t be forced to rationalize away the flaws of a lone woman contender. Real progress is not just being able to vote for a woman, but being able to vote for the best woman.But if and when the best woman wins, she is going to face off against Trump in yet another battle royal over patriarchy. The Trump presidency has been a brutal, boot-on-the-neck insult to many women, a daily reminder of how far away gender equality remains. To see Trump vanquished by a woman would start to heal the injury of his repulsive reign. Yet there’s an awful possibility to consider: If sexism helped elect him, might it help re-elect him, too?“I’m actually concerned that the same dynamics of gender-role threat we saw playing out in 2016 could easily repeat themselves in 2020,” Cassino told me. “For one thing, men’s perception that they’re being discriminated against hasn’t decreased. If anything, it’s increased.” He believes that if Democrats nominate a woman in 2020, “it’s likely to cost them a couple points in the general election.”Yet if male resentment has grown in the last two years, so has female anger. “The fate of the women candidates, both in the primary and the general, will depend on the enthusiasm of the women voters,” said Democratic pollster Celinda Lake. This enthusiasm was volcanic in the midterms, and it’s hard to see what Trump could do in the next 22 months to dampen it.Besides, Trump, though dangerous, is also weak. In a recent survey, 57 percent of registered voters said they planned to vote against him. There’s a phenomenon in business called the “glass cliff,” in which companies in crisis promote women to clean up disasters caused by men. “Only if male leaders have maneuvered an organization into trouble is a switch to a female leader preferred,” said an article in the Harvard Business Review. We could soon find out if the same is true in politics. Trump could be the man to wreck the country so badly that Americans will be willing to let a woman save it.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Michelle Goldberg has been an Opinion columnist since 2017. She is the author of several books about politics, religion and women’s rights, and was part of a team that won a Pulitzer Prize for public service in 2018 for reporting on workplace sexual harassment issues.  @michelleinbklyn 

Supported byWe can’t look away. But we should. By Kara Swisher Contributing Opinion Writer It turns out that internet zillionaires are just as awkward as the rest of us when it comes to romantic text messages. “You know what I want? I want to get a little drunk with you tonight,” Jeff Bezos, the founder and chief executive of Amazon, wrote in a text message to the television personality Lauren Sanchez. “Not falling down. Just a little drunk. I want to talk to you and plan with you. Listen and laugh.”Last week The National Enquirer — of course, it had to be the Trump-water-boy publication that did the dirty deed — unveiled the leaked texts, and the particulars of a new relationship Mr. Bezos was having in the wake of the end of his 25-year marriage to MacKenzie Bezos.[Kara Swisher answered your questions about this column on Twitter.]Along with lurid reporting, which mentioned some steamy photos, The Enquirer released many of Mr. Bezos’s messages for all the world to see.“I love you, alive girl,” he texted, prompting a Twitter meme competition about what exactly that meant. (I still don’t know.)“I basically WANT TO BE WITH YOU!!! Then I want to fall asleep with you and wake up tomorrow and read the paper with you and have coffee with you,” he texted. (I, for one, would not have expected him to employ these Trump-style all-caps.)“I like it when you’re strong, and I like it when you’re vulnerable. Everything. The only thing I don’t like is not being with you. All of this is just straight from my heart,” read another message.So many texts, so many achingly awkward, occasionally robotic, deeply-embarrassing-when-out-of-context messages that unveiled a very addled man in the throes of something. The emotion was so raw that it prompted one jaded tech leader to write me that he wished he could text with that much abandon.He had another point to make, though: “If the man who wants to put listening devices in everyone’s home doesn’t always know that everyone’s always watching, I don’t know who will,” he wrote — on Signal, natch — alluding to the Amazon Echo device that has had its share of privacy hiccups. If the world’s richest man got got like this, he said, “no one is safe.” If there is one thing that this latest violation of online privacy teaches us, it is that — in the words of Scott McNealy, the chief executive of Sun Microsystems, back in 1999 — “You have zero privacy anyway. Get over it.” We still haven’t gotten over it, and even in this advanced time of always-on, I’m not sure we should. The sweet nothings that Mr. Bezos was sending to one person should not have turned into tweets for the entire world to see and, worse, that most everyone assumed were O.K. to see.Some in the media have focused on the possibility that there would be fallout for Amazon from the Bezos divorce, suggesting that Ms. Bezos might seek to control and change the company. I knew them both in the early days of Amazon’s history, a history in which Ms. Bezos was quite present and important. While things can change, I would be utterly surprised by either of them indulging in any acrimony that would hurt the company. But we use this as an excuse to stare at their private lives anyway.Obviously, the trend of allowing the outside to see the inside is not a new one — gossip and its tabloid incarnations, as well as tell-alls and all the shabby circuses like it, were skulking around well before the digital age ever dawned. But the trend has accelerated in the last few years, as means of communication have mutated and proliferated. It’s too easy now to forget that at least some of our utterances are not meant for public consumption.How were Mr. Bezos’s texts released into the wild? Was his phone hacked? If so, why was he not using encryption? If he did protect his online selfies, did someone somehow get screenshots of them and send them around until one of the recipients dropped a dime to The Enquirer? If so, is anyone safe?No, we are not.Part of the problem is the United States lacks any truly toothy privacy law. We don’t even pretend that we think privacy is something to be protected, and there are no consequences for revealing someone else’s personal foibles made into so much data.Of course, we also do this to ourselves. Not to blame the victim (and there are plenty of those in this case, including Mr. Bezos), but we choose to put ourselves on display. Post your photos from your vacation to Aruba on the ever-changing wall of the performative museum that is Instagram? Sure! Write a long soliloquy about your fights with neighbors and great-uncles on Facebook? Sign me up! Tweet about a dishwasher mishap with a big box retailer on Twitter? Wait, that’s me.I think you get my point here. We are both the fodder for and the creators of the noise pollution that is mucking up so much, including the national discourse. That national discourse just gave us Mr. Bezos as one day’s entertainment.Are you not entertained? I am, and I am also ashamed.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram, and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. Kara Swisher, editor at large for the technology news website Recode and producer of the Recode Decode podcast and Code Conference, is a contributing opinion writer.  @karaswisher • Facebook 

Supported bywith interestBy Charlotte CowlesWant this column in your inbox? Sign up here.I’ve been thinking a lot about that famous egg — you know, the one that just broke the world record for the most-liked Instagram post ever. It’s a normal egg, brown, with freckles, nothing special. It could’ve been the egg you’ll eat for breakfast this morning. Instead, it hatched an internet phenomenon, for reasons no one can explain.Say what you will about that egg and those who cared about it. But in a week when much of the world seemed so mired in acrimony, it was a small (very small) symbol of what collective effort can do. Speaking of accomplishments, prepare for the week ahead with the top stories in business and tech, below. Then go enjoy an omelet.Jan. 13-19President Trump’s government shutdown continues, and the household budgets of federal employees are hurting. Some 800,000 haven’t been paid in weeks, and a typical furloughed worker is now about $5,000 behind in salary. Thousands have filed for unemployment. They’ve cut back on spending and investing, which is taking a serious bite out of the country’s economic growth. On a warmer note, some thoughtful souls have been offering free pizza, wine, financial services and even homemade casseroles to unpaid workers across the country. Still, none of these gestures can substitute for a paycheck.Remember the ex-partner at Goldman Sachs who helped steal $2.7 billion from a Malaysian sovereign wealth fund, spending his share on designer bags and diamond necklaces? Though Goldman tried to distance itself from the scandal, it recently earmarked $516 million to cover potential penalties. Nevertheless, the bank beat analysts’ expectations with a sunny earnings report on Wednesday. The fourth-quarter numbers of other big banks were mixed, breaking a yearlong streak of the industry’s record profits. But in light of the market’s plummet in December, they are still doing better than some analysts predicted.Skyrocketing living costs have made many tech-centric cities, particularly on the West Coast, inaccessible to teachers, firefighters and pretty much anyone else who isn’t making a fat salary. In Seattle, Microsoft is trying to stem that exodus by putting up $500 million to finance affordable homes. While some say the pledge is too little, too late, it’s still the most ambitious step that any tech company has taken to solve the housing crisis of its own making.Jan. 20-26It’s Groundhog Day across the pond. By Monday, Prime Minister Theresa May must cobble together a new plan for Britain’s departure from the European Union. As predicted, Parliament resoundingly struck down her proposal last week — but, hey, she kept her job despite a no-confidence vote the next day. A no-deal Brexit, which could wreak havoc on the British economy and its trading partners, looks more and more likely. Some companies are starting to brace themselves; the deadline is less than 10 weeks away.Who started the opioid epidemic? A Massachusetts court will hold a status hearing this week in a case that contends the Sackler family, owner of the company that makes OxyContin, should be held partly accountable. The business, Purdue Pharma, has already paid hundreds of millions of dollars in fines for misrepresenting the dangers of the painkiller, which was once marketed as having an addiction risk of “less than 1 percent” (nope). Sackler family members have claimed to be unaware of such practices, but evidence in a court filing by the Massachusetts attorney general suggests that they were more involved than they let on. Purdue Pharma said in a statement that the filing was “littered with biases and inaccurate characterizations.”There will be some notable absences at the annual World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, this week. Mr. Trump canceled the United States delegation, citing a need to keep his administrators in Washington during the government shutdown. Mrs. May has also bowed out (see above). This year’s forum was supposed to focus on rising tensions between world powers and the possibility of a full-blown global trade war. But with major players missing in action, how far will they get?Crooks: They love the internet. Facebook uncovered two more Russian-backed misinformation campaigns and deleted more than 500 pages and accounts as a result. Meanwhile, two men were charged with hacking into the Securities and Exchange Commission’s database to steal secrets that fetched about $4.1 million in illegal profits. In other news, the pop star Rihanna is teaming up with the luxury conglomerate LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton to start a fashion brand. She’d be its first female designer of color.$13: The new cost of Netflix’s most popular streaming plan. The monthly fee was increased by $2 last Tuesday for new subscribers, while existing users won’t see the upcharge for a few months. The company attributed its higher rates to one simple reason: It takes a lot of money to create quality content.

Supported byBy Alan FeuerAlex Cifuentes Villa was born with the drug trade in his blood.As the youngest member of a storied narco dynasty, Mr. Cifuentes was already helping his father dry and pack cocaine at age 10. A few years later, he befriended a top aide to the drug lord Pablo Escobar who had moved into his building in Medellín, Colombia. He started going bowling with the aide’s bodyguards.But about a decade ago, Mr. Cifuentes, then in his 40s, was in dire straits, recovering from pancreatic surgery and saddled with a large debt from his recently murdered older brother. Needing money quickly, he testified this week, he was hired as a personal assistant to an old business associate: Joaquín Guzmán Loera, the Mexican kingpin known as El Chapo.Mr. Cifuentes worked with Mr. Guzmán for the next six years — arranging his schedule, managing his drug deals, buying his weapons, disposing of his enemies and even taking part in his vanity movie project. But he has spent the last four days betraying the defendant as a witness for the prosecution at his drug trial in New York.While his detailed testimony about Mr. Guzmán’s Sinaloa cartel was damaging for his former boss’s defense, it was his revelation on Tuesday under cross-examination that will arguably be most remembered: Mr. Cifuentes testified that just before Mexico’s 2012 presidential election, Mr. Guzmán gave Enrique Peña Nieto, who ultimately won the contest, a $100 million bribe.The kingpin’s trial, in Federal District Court in Brooklyn, has seen its share of flamboyant figures in the last nine weeks — from Mr. Guzmán’s chief cocaine supplier, who altered his entire face with plastic surgery, to the 20-something I.T. expert who built El Chapo an encrypted cellphone system and then worked with the F.B.I. to hack it. But even in this parade of vivid characters, Mr. Cifuentes has stood out.Who else could describe for jurors, as he did Wednesday, how he once planned to “fuse” cocaine into “plastic cubes” and ship it to Canada with the help of twin brothers in the Mafia? Mr. Cifuentes also said he lied about his true occupation on an application for Mexican citizenship, saying he sold “submersible plants.”Federal prosecutors have said in court filings that Mr. Cifuentes has an “unorthodox” interest in the occult (which, they noted, he picked up from watching the Discovery Channel) and on several occasions has gone to see a witch doctor. He said he once took a trip to Ecuador to buy cocaine for Mr. Guzmán, filling a cooler with $1 million and traveling the high seas in a six-person boat.Mr. Cifuentes first grew close to Mr. Guzmán in late 2007 when he went to live with the drug lord (and his entourage of secretaries, maids and bodyguards) in a series of secret hide-outs in the Sierra Madre mountains. Before he arrived, Mr. Cifuentes said, Mr. Guzmán was living in a rustic hut with plastic folding chairs and makeshift wooden furniture. It was only after he showed up, he claimed, that Mr. Guzmán acquired modern amenities like a plasma-screen television.In the next six years, Mr. Cifuentes was involved in nearly every aspect of Mr. Guzmán’s business. His own personal assistant, Andrea Velez Fernandez, once tried to help the kingpin bribe an army general whom she was supplying with “female friends” from a modeling firm she ran. When Mr. Guzmán later wanted Ms. Velez dead, Mr. Cifuentes said he took the contract, sending his wife to Canada to hire a local group of Hell’s Angels for the hit.His ties to Mr. Guzmán ended shortly after Mr. Cifuentes was arrested by Mexican authorities in late 2013; he was apprehended at a modest ranch in the outskirts of Culiacán that was protected by the kingpin’s personal bodyguards, a team known as the Anthrax Group. Within a year, he testified, his brother Jorge, who was already in custody in the United States, persuaded him to cooperate with the prosecutors on Mr. Guzmán’s case.The Cifuentes family had not always gotten along so well. On Wednesday, Mr. Cifuentes told jurors that he had once asked his nephew to kill his niece’s boyfriend after he suspected the man of being an informant. Some years later, after the nephew tried to kidnap his grandmother — Mr. Cifuentes’s mother — he tried to have the nephew murdered, too.When Mr. Cifuentes first appeared on the witness stand on Thursday, he nodded at Mr. Guzmán in a solemn way that seemed to say, “This is how it ends, old friend.” Returning the gesture, Mr. Guzmán nodded back.And so began a four-day litany of stories, which Mr. Cifuentes told with his chin held high — not so much out of arrogance, it seemed, but to better see through his two transplanted corneas. His accounts touched on serious subjects, like Mr. Guzmán’s alleged bribe to Mr. Peña Nieto, but also on frivolous ones, including how another one of the kingpin’s top lieutenants once gave members of his inner circle custom-made “Cartel de Sinaloa” baseball caps.In the end, Mr. Cifuentes said on Tuesday, he had enjoyed himself during his 40-year career, making money, losing money, spending it on cars and watches for his girlfriends.“A good life,” he offered with a shrug.

Supported byTrump's agenda in Europe is Putin's agenda in Europe. Is that really a coincidence?By Roger CohenOpinion ColumnistSo President Trump’s main concern at the border with Mexico is the supposed discovery of “prayer rugs.” Trump came into office as an anti-Muslim bigot; he is still an anti-Muslim bigot. In fact, he remains himself in every aspect, his miserable pettiness impervious to any glimmer of uplift through his office.I will ignore the hermetic sealing of Trump’s personality against decency, and resist the temptation to riff on Abraham Lincoln’s brooding portrait in the White House dining room above the buffoon in chief with his burgers, to ask a simple question: If President Donald Trump is a Russian asset, what would he be working to achieve?The central thrust of Russian foreign policy under President Vladimir Putin is the dismantlement of NATO. Putin seeks this in order to sever the trans-Atlantic bond between European powers and the United States that secured Western Europe against the Soviet Red Army, and still embodies the shared defense of democracy and freedom.Tick that Russian box. Trump holds NATO in contempt, has discussed a United States withdrawal from it, and works to undermine it.Let’s face it: Things are spiraling downward. If they were not, Jeanine Pirro of Fox News would not have asked Trump: “Are you now or have you ever worked for Russia?”As I write, Trump has just tweeted “AMERICA FIRST!” He tweeted “MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN!” Out of nowhere, as though he’s on some autopilot! The president is way over his skis. As Eric Trump observed a few years ago: “We don’t rely on American banks. We have all the funding we need out of Russia.”Just think, Trump might have lost to Hillary Clinton, gotten to build the Trump Tower in Moscow, and kept lying and swindling in some backstage office rather than center-stage, exposed under the lights.But back to Russian interests: Putin also pursues the unraveling of the European Union because the 28-nation bloc has made European nations stronger, wealthier and more stable. Russia backs far-right politicians, like Marine Le Pen in France, who oppose European integration. A splintered Europe is more vulnerable to Moscow.Tick that box, too. Trump has described the European Union as “brutal,” called it a “foe,” spoken in favor of British withdrawal from it, and downgraded the E.U. ambassador’s status in Washington.In short, the president has shown disdain for an organization that has furthered American interests. Safeguarding the stability and security of Europe was the greatest single American strategic challenge from 1945 to 1990. The E.U. was a foundation of this effort that ended with the establishment of a Europe whole and free.Like every “enemy of the people” in the press, like every poor schmuck who ever worked for this guy, like any American patriot who wants to respect the president, I’ve struggled to find a redeeming feature in Donald Trump. I can now report: There is none.But I must return to Russia again. Just because Trump furthers Russian designs does not mean he’s in Russia’s employ. Of course it does not. I want to be clear about that. Just because you assist Russia does not means you’re an asset of Russia even if you assist Russia from the Oval Office.Putin, who has described the collapse of the Soviet Union as “the greatest geopolitical catastrophe” of the last century, seeks the collapse in the 21st century of the American quasi-imperium that has provided the organizing structure of the free world. The Russian president favors a retreating United States that has abandoned its values, granting open season to autocrats — an America for which human rights, a rules-based international order, the rule of law itself, and the dignity of the free citizen in a democracy have been nullified.Again, Trump is working in sync with Putin. Tick another box. There is not a despot on the face of the earth who fears Donald Trump’s United States. From Beijing to Budapest, authoritarianism and illiberalism have been given a boost by Trump as alternative models to liberal democracy.The president’s principal emotion in the face of dictators is envy. He is a would-be King Ubu for whom self-aggrandizement never self-aggrandizes quite enough.None of this proves that Trump is a Russian asset, any more than his encouraging Russia to hack Clinton’s emails in 2016; or the firing of James Comey as F.B.I. director and later of Attorney General Jeff Sessions; or concealing his conversations with Putin from senior officials; or his cringe-worthy Putin adulation in Helsinki; or his defense of the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan; or his handing Syria on a plate to Russia; or, if BuzzFeed has it mostly right, his instructing his longtime lawyer Michael Cohen to lie to Congress about negotiations to build that Trump Tower in Moscow.I don’t know what Trump’s Russian hang-up is, but Trump has one. Somehow, he’s compromised. It’s not a necessary condition for impeachment that he be a Russian asset. Cohen’s expected testimony to Congress on Feb. 7 is a more gripping prospect by the day.This story has been updated to reflect news developments.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Roger Cohen has been a columnist for The Times since 2009. His columns appear Wednesday and Saturday. He joined The Times in 1990, and has served as a foreign correspondent and foreign editor.  @NYTimesCohen 

Supported byBy Manohla DargisEarly in “Glass,” an enjoyable new whatsit from M. Night Shyamalan, Samuel L. Jackson keeps winking at the camera. It’s a character tic, but it’s nice to think that Jackson is signaling that he’s hip to the absurdity. He plays Elijah Price, a.k.a. Mr. Glass, one of those dastardly masterminds with a tragic past and psychotic ambitions who in another era would be twirling a mustache. This being the Age of Comic Books, he instead can be seen furiously hacking a security system of a mental institution with nitwit guards, color-coordinated art direction and a couple of world-class adversaries in neighboring cells.Glass’s villainy was first related in Shyamalan’s film “Unbreakable” (2000) an agreeably bonkers fantasy that also introduced his Everyman nemesis, David Dunn (Bruce Willis), who discovers his modest powers in middle age. (He can bench press serious weight.) When “Unbreakable” is good, it’s very good; when it’s bad, your eyes roll like roulette wheels. It’s a bit nuts and too often belabored — Shyamalan is burdened by the auteurist need to seem original. But he has skills. Few horror movies get under your skin as easily as “Unbreakable” does when a killer materializes at a family’s door (“I like your house”) a scene that creates the kind of terror that fires up your fight-or-flight response.[An interview with M. Night Shyamalan about “Glass”.]Shyamalan’s talent for primitive scares remains intact in “Glass,” as does his love for cramming a whole lot of story in one feature. A superhero thriller spiked with horror and family melodrama, the movie reunites its title evildoer with Dunn and brings them face to face with Kevin Wendell Crumb (James McAvoy), the multiple-personality antihero of Shyamalan’s 2017 freakout, “Split.”Like his filmmaker-creator, Crumb can be awfully good or not. Much depends on which personality — the 9-year-old Hedwig, the bossy Patricia, the naughty Dennis — has taken hold, and whether Shyamalan is after laughs or shudders, both of which he routinely coaxes out in “Glass” until he doesn’t.The sly question teased in “Unbreakable,” the mystery that sets it apart from run-of-the-mill grandiose superhero fables, is whether Dunn is the real deal or if Glass merely wants a foil worthy of his self-aggrandizement. In “Unbreakable,” Dunn starts off as a seemingly average guy, a security guard who’s strictly a Clark Kent. Dunn knows that he’s different (he senses evil through touch), but his powers awaken only because of Glass. When the new movie opens, Glass is under wraps and Dunn has been stealthily doing his superhero thing for a while, sneakily saving the day under cover of the security company that he runs with his son (Spencer Treat Clark, reprising the same role).“Glass” opens smoothly with some small-scale heroics that set the humorous, twitchy tone and showcases Dunn, who’s still fighting while wearing an identity-obscuring rain poncho. The off-the-rack costume is crucial to his low-key charm and vibe. It’s also representative of Shyamalan’s eccentric, intimately scaled superhero universe, one that leans on quirks of personality and quotidian fears rather than on computer-generated special effects and world-destroying brawls. His heroes and villains are invariably more ordinary — and human — than extraordinary, which raises the stakes and amplifies the tension.Shyamalan finds a way to cram Dunn, Glass and Crumb into the same fictional universe, but he hasn’t found a persuasive way to make them fit together. He seems to know that, and so, after the reintroductions and other throat-clearing preliminaries, Shyamalan just locks all three in the same mental hospital. There, they are tended by a spectacularly inept shrink, Dr. Staple (Sarah Paulson), who insists that they are merely delusional. The actor Luke Kirby, who’s currently playing Lenny Bruce on the Amazon show “The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel,” pops up as a hospital attendant, casting that I turned into an imaginary franchise crossover whenever “Glass” started to sag.And it does with increasing frequency, even if, for the most part, there is enough in the movie — creeping cameras, off-kilter boos, eye-popping mauve and especially its three male leads — to offset the longueurs, obvious filler and rickety plotting. Shyamalan has been celebrated for his twisty stories, but his truer strength is his gifts for infusing outwardly banal moments with dread and for his work with actors. McAvoy takes his shirt off distractingly often (his pumped bare chest is a special effect), but his quicksilver character changes are fun and often delicate. Jackson and especially Willis remind you again of how fine they can be when asked for more than booming shtick and smirk.In time, the air of misterioso quiet and encroaching, consuming terror give way to manly growling, jaw-clenching and vein-popping, and everything falls to pieces in a poorly conceptualized and staged blowout. (Only then does the relatively modest budget feel like a hindrance.) It’s a bummer and suggests that Shyamalan needed a few more years between this movie and the last to work out the kinks, and maybe a screenwriting partner who could help him separate his A material from his B, C and D ideas. He certainly needs help with his female characters, a lineup of clichés that are never as touching or as witty as he thinks. He’s still playing with genre but not nearly enough, and no amount of self-reflexive winking and meta-patter about comics makes it better.Movie data powered by IMDb.comGlassRated PG-13 for comic-book violence, including cannibalism. Running time: 2 hours 9 minutes.

Supported byNonfictionWhen you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.By Ann Marie LipinskiBREAKING NEWS The Remaking of Journalism and Why It Matters Now By Alan Rusbridger 440 pp. Farrar, Straus &amp; Giroux. $30.A deathwatch beetle is an insidious insect, eating away at furniture or homes, capable of destroying them if left undetected. “The structures look sound,” Alan Rusbridger writes, “but have been hollowed out from within and, if you’re really unlucky, turn to dust.”The destructive beetle is the dark metaphor conjured by Rusbridger, the former editor of the British daily The Guardian, to describe the impact of Craigslist on the newspaper industry. He recalls the day a colleague returned to Fleet Street from a trip to the United States, carrying news of the free advertising site’s booming success and the resulting decline in paid newspaper classifieds, long a revenue life force. The Craigslist website “looked like nothing” and had “no editorial content at all,” but here was a publishing revolution not playing a journalist’s game. Underscoring the point was a slide accompanying his colleague’s report: an image of The New York Times’s new 52-story Manhattan skyscraper alongside a photo of Craigslist’s San Francisco headquarters — a frame house with room for the staff’s 18 desks.Rusbridger’s 20 years as editor of The Guardian — 1995-2015 — parallel a period of dramatic transformation in the newspaper industry, arguably the most dramatic since the invention of the printing press. The staggering changes are illustrated by his efforts to explain the predigital publishing cycle to an Oxford class of phone-dependent 18-year-olds. He draws a set of stick figures starting with a reporter working on a manual typewriter and ending, 18 stick figures later, with carriers delivering a newspaper to subscribers’ front doors. “The group look as if I have been relating how cave dwellers created fire by rubbing dry twigs together.”For a newspaper editor heading into the new news century, deathwatch beetles were everywhere, but so was possibility. Rusbridger wants us to know what it felt like to work inside a news organization during this era, and his painstaking account is fascinating, even for those of us who lived both the peril and the promise. The rapid technology changes, collapsing business model, 9/11, media convergence, paywall wars, dawn of social media, rise of the “citizen journalist” and more are here valuably detailed by a gifted reporter focused on the story of his own profession. All around him was shiny invention but it wielded a double-edged sword. In discovering Google News, one of his colleagues “self-mockingly responded by slumping across his desk in a pose that suggested there was little point in carrying on,” Rusbridger writes. “How could one compete with this all-seeing eye on the world, hoovering up anything that happens, anywhere on the planet and alerting users within minutes in a remorseless perpetuum mobile of breaking information?”As it turned out, Rusbridger did compete, embracing the internet more quickly and closely than did many of his generation, one of whom told some academics working on a case study of The Guardian: “The internet will strut an hour upon the stage, and then take its place in the ranks of the lesser media.”Rusbridger pushed to make The Guardian a global digital newspaper, courting English-speaking readers outside of Britain, notably with editions in the United States and Australia, dramatically increasing online audience. He did this while guiding the paper through several historic investigations, including outrageous revelations of phone hacking by British journalists and the disclosure of Edward Snowden’s National Security Agency files. The confidence and skill with which Rusbridger asserted his leadership, at times under government and legal pressure, sound an almost nostalgic note for an era when the sole job of a talented editor was to be an editor. But the industrywide demands on editors to be business executives too coincide with Rusbridger’s tenure atop the Guardian masthead. In this role, he makes a costly and dubious decision, deciding on expensive new presses to relaunch the print Guardian, even as the paper’s future was being staked to digital.The era that Rusbridger recounts was so momentous for journalism and the stakes so high, it was hard to see the new existential challenges looming. Yet in 2016, the year after he stepped away from his editorship, they appeared. It will be his successors who write the story of how journalism met this moment, but Rusbridger’s early assessments are among his most sober.First came Brexit, the referendum asking voters whether Britain should remain in the European Union. Rather than rigorous journalism on the “mind-numbingly complex” consequences of the vote, Rusbridger saw much of the British press advance an agenda, the “viewspaper” in full flower. His description of how the story was reported is damning: “This is a simple question on which we, as a newspaper, have a very strong opinion. Our opinion will be very evident in most of what we do and we will not trouble you with alternative views. We will do some reporting of the campaign, but most of it will be around the personalities rather than the issues.” Along with demonizing reporting on immigrants, this was for some editors “just the icing on a cake they had been baking for a decade or more of anti-European coverage.”Across the ocean, another storm gathered force, enabled by Facebook playing host to the hoaxers and fact-free. What the agents of social media disinformation began, Donald Trump, the new president, continued. “Americans had elected a liar,” he writes, “and now the liar turned his guns on the truth.”Rusbridger’s anguish over the assault on fact is leavened by rueful recognition that Trump’s abuses, in partnership with social media’s penchant for magnifying them, may carry a pale silver lining. “In a sense Donald Trump has done journalism a favor,” he writes. “In his cavalier disregard for truth he has reminded people why societies need to be able to distinguish fact from fiction. At their best, journalists do that job well. They can now harness almost infinite resources to help them. But, at the same time, we have created the most prodigious capability for spreading lies the world has ever seen. And the economic system for supporting journalism looks dangerously unstable. The stakes for truth have never been higher.”Deathwatch beetles everywhere. It may not be the assignment journalism sought, but it’s the one we’ve got.Ann Marie Lipinski directs the Nieman Foundation for Journalism at Harvard University and is the former editor of The Chicago Tribune.

Supported byCritic’s PickBy Zachary WoolfeCLEVELAND — Is Strauss’s “Ariadne auf Naxos” the best opera? Probably not, though it’s up there. If you asked me whether it was my favorite opera, my answer would be the same.But it must be the most operatic opera, the one that reflects most sweetly and profoundly on the nature of this strange, lovely hodgepodge of an art form. Putting on an opera, after all, is what the piece is all about.So it makes sense that the Cleveland Orchestra’s audience at Severance Hall here — for a pristine, poignant production of “Ariadne” that runs through Saturday evening — takes its seats to find what looks like a rehearsal.The players, wearing their own street clothes, are onstage, with a plastic work table and some chairs. A digital clock, the kind that keeps precise time for obeying musicians’ union regulations, is visible. The orchestra’s music director, Franz Welser-Möst, sits on the podium, chatting with the wind section.A stage manager comes out and holds up a hand to indicate five minutes to go; Mr. Welser-Möst stands; and, without anyone having applauded or the lights having gone down, the orchestra surges into the lithe rapids of the opening measures.Staged by Frederic Wake-Walker, it’s a disarming, intimate beginning to this most disarming and intimate of scores. And there is no orchestra I’d rather hear play it than this one, pared to a vivid, graceful chamber scale. Even at full complement, Cleveland is a group that performs with the crystalline energy of a quartet, silky yet piquant, so you can imagine the pearly lucidity when it’s reduced to just three dozen.In those first couple of minutes alone, the bassoon peeks through the strings, a gentle forest murmur. An onstage horn manages to deliver the delicacy and courtly distance you’d expect from an instrument located well into the wings. Strauss’s burbling kaleidoscope of themes unfolds with playfulness and sobriety, in perfect balance.That balance defines “Ariadne.” Originally conceived as the second half of an evening that would begin with a Molière play, it was revised in the form of a prologue and an opera proper.The prologue is set in the home of a rich man who, planning for a party, has asked a troupe of comedians to clown and commissioned an earnest young composer to write a serious opera on the mythical theme of Ariadne, abandoned on the island of Naxos.Then the order comes down: Because of time constraints — there’s a fireworks display to be had — comedians and tragedians are to perform simultaneously. The opera proper is the occasion for their collision and, by the end, sublime cohesion.It is a piece, just as opera is a genre, about polarities brought into vibrating equilibrium by being made to inhabit the same space: speech and singing; comedy and tragedy; antiquity and modernity; restraint and excess; illusions of purity, set against the complexity, the compromise, of life.No other work so well captures how opera, at its best, is both of the world and a rapturous heightening of it. Time and again, Strauss almost offhandedly swirls his orchestra into another sphere. And with its peerless elegance, Cleveland is perhaps uniquely suited to capture these magical pivots — to conjure out of this small orchestra, busy punctuating clatter and babble, a sudden, shockingly full rush of feeling that tingles your skin.Mr. Welser-Möst’s gift for letting scores breathe, unrushed and unruffled yet taut, serves “Ariadne” particularly well. The vitality of instrumental details enhances, rather than distracts from, the coherence of the drama. Moments like the briefest impression of violins tuning in the prologue, and the quiver of flute in the opera proper at the mention of leaves rustling, don’t ever stop the dialogue in its tracks; indeed, they propel it forward.Cleveland’s eloquent cast propels it, too. This is a talky opera; it can sag or sparkle. Mr. Welser-Möst and the orchestra have assembled artists who make their singing speak.And even make their speaking sing: The great baritone Wolfgang Brendel is a luxury in the talking role of the Major-Domo in the prologue. (See if you ever hear the consonants of the word “danach” pronounced with more relish.) There’s articulate boldness in other of the smaller roles, like the Music Master (the bass-baritone Hanno Müller-Brachmann) and Dance Master (the tenor Jonas Hacker).Mr. Welser-Möst seems to favor voices more willowy than plummy; his singers tend to blend with the instruments — beautifully — rather than soar over them. Kate Lindsey is direct and assertive as the Composer, her tone sometimes slender and chalky but with moonlit gentleness when it’s soft — an oboe-like quality that lends itself to moments in the prologue when the winds melt into the strings, an autumn sunset in sound.Her coloratura satiny and clean, Daniela Fally is a calmly sunny, blessedly unperky Zerbinetta, smiling through her seen-it-all-ness. In the title role, Tamara Wilson also exudes serenity and sweetness, even approachability; there’s rarely this much temperamental similarity between Ariadne and Zerbinetta.Even if it doesn’t really bloom at its top, Ms. Wilson’s soprano easily swells to fill climaxes. And it rests cozily within the ensemble textures, a clarinet rather than a trumpet. Trumpet-like is more the province of Andreas Schager, who as a properly exuberant Bacchus conquers the intense challenges Strauss laid out for his tenors. Mr. Schager manages to sing a role many squeal, blazing out the score’s unfriendly high notes. (It’s a triumph that can sometimes jar in the context of his more restrained colleagues.)After the bustling prologue and an intermission, the orchestra (in concert black) returns, now lowered into the pit, the stage surrounded by a gauzy white curtain. Throughout the spectacle of Ariadne’s suffering — and the interjections of the comedians who try to cheer her — fragments of old films (Chaplin, Marx Brothers, early cartoons) are projected, floating alongside snippets of footage of the stunning Severance Hall and its architectural details.It’s nostalgia, and at the same time it’s where we are now. It’s winking, yet sincere. It is, as the work’s librettist, Hugo von Hofmannsthal, wrote of “Ariadne,” “a very serious trifle.” Like opera. Ariadne auf NaxosThrough Saturday at Severance Hall, Cleveland; clevelandorchestra.com.

Supported by‘It’s like someone is running around sticking their finger in people’s eyes and I’m an eye doctor.’By Maeve HigginsContributing Opinion WriterMark Doss, a supervising lawyer at the International Refugee Assistance Project, pulled an all-nighter on Jan. 27, 2017, and his work life has not been the same since. On that day two years ago, his client Hameed Darweesh, an Iraqi who had worked primarily as an interpreter on behalf of the United States government for 10 years, was the first person detained at Kennedy Airport under President Trump’s executive order barring immigrants from seven predominantly Muslim countries, including Iraq.Images of immigration lawyers huddled together over laptops on airport floors across the country made global news. Nineteen hours and a habeas corpus petition titled Darweesh v. Trump later, Mr. Darweesh was the first detainee to be released. Mr. Doss was able to comfort his weeping client at baggage claim. When you’re an immigrant to the United States, you come to rely on a selection of people you never expected to need as guides. The co-worker who explains that aluminum is both spelled and pronounced incorrectly here, the waitress who advises against ordering that second cold brew and, crucially, the immigration lawyer who can push open the door to a new life, a whole country. I moved here five years ago in a relatively straightforward way, but one that still involved much paperwork, expense and anxiety. Amanda Gupta, who specializes in visas for artists and entertainers, was my lawyer. It’s because of her I get to live my own peculiar American dream, which is to have a comedy career and drink as much cold brew as I can before my heart explodes.That first travel ban, and each subsequent one, made my stomach lurch, as I imagined not being allowed back into the place I belong. And since that chaotic weekend two years ago, I have wondered what life has been like for immigration lawyers — people whose livelihoods depend on getting others through a door that was only ever ajar and is now in danger of slamming shut.As the administration hacks away at immigrants’ rights and rains down policy changes, immigration requests that would usually have been approved are denied, many lawyers told me. They are receiving requests for further evidence that are baffling, with precedents continuously blurring. “Any way the government can have a moment of ‘gotcha’ they do and they will,” Ms. Gupta said. “If they can get you out of the country, they will.” John Khosravi, an immigration lawyer in Los Angeles, agrees. “These past two years it’s like someone is running around sticking their finger in people’s eyes and I’m an eye doctor,” he said. “Sure, business is good, but those aren’t the injuries I want to treat.” On his podcast “The Immigration Lawyers Podcast,” he urges his colleagues to have a Plan B and to save their money for a rainy day. Mr. Khosravi is Iranian-American, and when he started practicing nearly a decade ago, all of his clients were Iranian. Since then, he has diversified and now has clients from around the world. “Had I just been starting out when the ban came down, that would have been lights out, just no way,” he said.For Lauren Blodgett, a staff lawyer at Safe Passage Project, the past two years have seen her definition of success change. She has represented children seeking asylum who were separated from a parent at the border, per the policy put in place by this administration last year. She said that even if her clients are denied a chance to stay in the United States, it’s crucial to her to help them feel heard and even loved throughout the process. “They will remember their case for the rest of their lives,” she said, adding that it’s a privilege to get to do this kind of difficult work. She has sometimes had to tell 8- or 9-year-olds that she honestly has no idea whether they will see their parents again.What, I asked, could one possibly do to unwind after a workday that involved those conversations? Twice a month, Ms. Blodgett goes to a dance party that takes place from 6 to 9 a.m. “We dance and then, some days, I go to straight to court,” she said. “I bring my suit and change in the bathroom.”At the end of our conversation, I asked her whether she ever feels hopeless, and she looked at me surprised, the same way I looked at her when she told me she voluntarily goes to early-morning raves. “This work is an opportunity to turn your rage and anger and disgust into action,” she said.Mr. Doss married last year and spent the days before his wedding finalizing a waiver application for a woman stranded in Yemen because of the travel ban to be reunited with her children in the United States. His wife’s brother, a graphic designer in Jordan, was denied a visitor’s visa, so he could not be with them on their wedding day. “It’s heartbreaking,” he told me, particularly for his new in-laws, but his perspective quickly broadened. “For my clients from Syria or Yemen or Libya who are trying to reunite with their loved ones in the United States, they’re indefinitely banned.” He worries that these separated families have been forgotten about, lost in the mix of everything else that has happened in the past two years.The number of globally displaced people has hit a record high, and last year the Trump administration set the lowest cap on the number of refugees who can be resettled in the United States since Congress passed the Refugee Act in 1980. I asked Mr. Doss what his clients, refugees who have made it through, feel about arriving in a country run by people who do not seem to want them here. “They are often fleeing from governments that have persecuted them, but they have a deep love for the country,” he explained. “So they’re able to separate the government from the people. Most Americans, when they’re face to face, are kind and caring.” The phone line went quiet for a second and I worried we had been disconnected, until he cleared his throat and added, “I think.”Maeve Higgins is the author of “Maeve in America: Essays by a Girl From Somewhere Else” and a contributing opinion writer.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

The Commerce Department is considering national security restrictions on artificial intelligence. Some worry they could stunt the industry in the U.S.CreditCreditChris KoehlerSupported byBy Cade MetzSAN FRANCISCO — A common belief among tech industry insiders is that Silicon Valley has dominated the internet because much of the worldwide network was designed and built by Americans.Now a growing number of those insiders are worried that proposed export restrictions could short-circuit the pre-eminence of American companies in the next big thing to hit their industry, artificial intelligence.In November, the Commerce Department released a list of technologies, including artificial intelligence, that are under consideration for new export rules because of their importance to national security.Technology experts worry that blocking the export of A.I. to other countries, or tying it up in red tape, will help A.I. industries flourish in those nations — China, in particular — and compete with American companies.“The number of cases where exports can be sufficiently controlled are very, very, very small, and the chance of making an error is quite large,” said Jack Clark, head of policy at OpenAI, an artificial intelligence lab in San Francisco. “If this goes wrong, it could do real damage to the A.I. community.”The export controls are being considered as the United States and China engage in a trade war. The Trump administration has been critical of the way China negotiates deals with American companies, often requiring the transfer of technology to Chinese partners as the cost of doing business in the country. And federal officials are making an aggressive argument that China has stolen American technology through hacking and industrial espionage.Tech companies, academics and policymakers are calling on the Commerce Department to take a light hand with A.I. export rules ahead of a Jan. 10 deadline for public comment. Their argument has three main points: Restrictions could harm companies in the United States and help international competitors. They could stifle technology improvements. And they may not make much of a difference.In August, Congress passed the Export Controls Act of 2018, which added export restrictions to “emerging and foundational technologies.” In mid-November, the Commerce Department, tasked with overseeing the restrictions, published a list of technologies for consideration, including several categories of A.I. like computer vision, speech recognition and natural language understanding.The restrictions would affect the export of technology to certain countries. Though it does not specify which ones, the Commerce Department proposal points to countries that have faced trade and arms embargoes in the past. Those include China, Russia and Iran.The Commerce Department declined to comment on the proposed restrictions. After taking public comments, the department will draft a formal plan. It could result in anything from new licensing rules for A.I. exports to outright bans.Artificial intelligence could be as vital to the tech industry as the World Wide Web was 25 years ago.It is easy to forget that before the mid-1990s, the tech industry in the United States was in a slump and the consumer electronics giants of Japan looked unbeatable. That changed as Silicon Valley companies popularized innovations like the web browser and e-commerce. Today, the likes of Google, Apple and Facebook dominate tech all over the world.But American dominion in artificial intelligence is far from guaranteed. China is investing billions in A.I. for both commercial and military use. And the expertise that has flooded to Silicon Valley over the years is starting to stay home, partly because of immigration restrictions. Centers for A.I. research are popping up all over the world, from Toronto to Cambridge, England, and Beijing.Enforcing export controls on artificial intelligence would present an unusual challenge for regulators.A.I. is something policymakers call a dual-use technology. It has innocuous commercial applications, like helping to steer your car or ask your phone a question. It also has important military uses, like helping a weaponized drone find its targets.Defense planners believe A.I. represents the next notable change in military weapons, akin to the tactical targeting of so-called smart bombs a generation ago or nuclear weapons before that. A.I. can also aid surveillance systems and even disinformation campaigns through software that can produce fake photos and videos.But “trying to draw a line between what is military and what is commercial is exceedingly difficult,” said R. David Edelman, a technology policy researcher at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. “It may be impossible.”It is difficult to put a “made in America” label on artificial intelligence. Research on the technology is often done collaboratively by scientists and engineers all over the world.Companies rarely hold on to the details of their A.I. work, as if it were a secret recipe. Instead, they share what they learn, in hopes that other researchers can build on it. One company’s “breakthrough” is often the latest iteration of what many researchers at private companies and universities have been working on.A lot of the computer code for A.I. is published on sites like Arxiv.org, a repository of academic and corporate research. So, many policy experts believe that if the United States restricts the export of A.I. products and services, it will have little effect on the progress of A.I. in China and other countries.“The core of these technologies is international and freely available,” said Mr. Edelman, who was a special assistant for economic and technology policy under President Barack Obama. “No country — the U.S. or China — has a monopoly on that.”Federal regulations exempt publicly available information from export control. That means that the government is unlikely to bar companies and universities from publishing fundamental A.I. research. But it could establish controls that restrict foreign access to that information, said Greg Jaeger, a lawyer at the law firm Stroock &amp; Stroock &amp; Lavan who deals with export controls.The Commerce Department could also restrict the export of cloud-computing technology and computer chips related to artificial intelligence. The export restrictions memo mentions both.Amazon and Microsoft already operate cloud computing businesses in China through local partners, and Google has long hoped to do the same thing. Amazon, Google and Microsoft declined to comment.Overly restrictive rules that prevent foreign nationals from working on certain technologies in the United States could also push researchers and companies into other countries.“It might be easier for people to just do this stuff in Europe,” said Jason Waite, a lawyer with the firm Alston &amp; Bird who specializes in international trade.Follow Cade Metz on Twitter: @CadeMetz

Supported byWhen the Ukrainian Orthodox Church broke from Russia’s, it dealt a blow to President Vladimir Putin’s efforts to portray his country as one people with a single identity. By Michael KhodarkovskyMr. Khodarkovsky is the author of the forthcoming book “Russia’s 20th Century: A Journey in 100 Histories.”On Jan. 5, some 150,000 people lined up in front of the St. Sophia Cathedral in Ukraine’s capital, Kiev. They came to see a single document called a tomos, issued a few days before by the ecumenical patriarch of Constantinople, Bartholomew. There, on a piece of parchment, written in ornate Greek, English and Ukrainian, were words that the Ukrainian Orthodox Church had dreamed about for centuries: The document made the Ukrainian Church autocephalous, meaning it is now fully independent from Moscow.This declaration of independence came about despite months of behind-the-scenes attempts by the Kremlin and Russian Orthodox Church officials to dissuade Patriarch Bartholomew from issuing a tomos. When cajoling did not work, Kremlin-connected hackers (who were recently indicted in the United States) stole thousands of email messages from Patriarch Bartholomew’s aides. When blackmailing failed also, Moscow resorted to traditional bullying — issuing unspecified threats and denouncing the patriarch as an agent of the United States and the Vatican.Still he did not waver, and the split was accomplished.It is a serious blow, on several levels, to the ambitions of Russia’s president, Vladimir Putin, as well as the Russian Church. The Ukrainian Orthodox population accounts for about 30 percent of all Orthodox Christian believers under Moscow’s patriarchate. Dozens of parishes have already switched to the Ukrainian Church and hundreds more are likely to follow. Moscow stands to lose millions of the faithful and untold millions of dollars in church property.But those are not the most important losses. With autocephaly, a large portion of the Ukrainian population will now be under the influence not of Moscow on church matters but of an independent church in Kiev. In other words, Russia may have annexed Crimea, but it has lost Ukraine.Most significant, the struggle over the Ukrainian Church has played out against a background of Mr. Putin’s efforts to recast a much-weakened Russia, where 20 percent of the population is Muslim, as a land of unified people with a single identity. In that effort, one of his strategies has been a growing reliance on the church as a core of Russian identity and a stalwart supporter of his regime.Indeed, the ties between the Kremlin and the Moscow Patriarchate are as old as Russia itself. Throughout its history, the Russian Orthodox Church was subservient to the state and an unshakable supporter of autocracy. Starting in the 16th century, the church provided Moscow’s rulers with a political theology of Manifest Destiny, asserting that Moscow had become the Second Jerusalem and the Third Rome (after Rome and Constantinople).The emergence of the atheist Soviet state in 1922 dealt a severe blow to the church. The state confiscated most ecclesiastical property, and few seminaries survived. The KGB infiltrated the priesthood, informing on clergy and promoting Soviet interests abroad.During Russia’s brief experiment with democracy in the 1990s, the church rebounded from the decades of suppression. But under Mr. Putin, the state has co-opted and subsumed the church. The Kremlin has relied on the Orthodox Church as the main unifying force in the country and provides it with generous financial support. In return, the church has been the key promoter of a “Russian world” concept that casts the Kremlin as a defender of Russians outside Russia. Patriarch Kirill, the head of the Russian Orthodox Church, has gone so far as to call the Putin era “a miracle of God.”One of the best examples today of how the church and Kremlin work hand in hand to advance Russian nationalist projects is an exhibition: “Russia — My History” — organized by the government with the Russian Orthodox Church. On display throughout the Russian Federation, it glorifies Russian autocrats, including Ivan the Terrible and Stalin, as great leaders, while vilifying as Western agents the Decembrists, a group of young Russian officers who sought to introduce reforms and a constitution in 1825. Portraits of President Putin and Alexander Pushkin, the founder of modern Russian literature, hang together. Similarly, Dostoyevsky is paired with a Russian fascist philosopher, Ivan Ilyin, whose little-known works have been revived under Mr. Putin.The exhibition’s explicit message is that Russia’s size and geopolitical ambitions demand a strong, even if repressive, leader to solidify the country and defy its enemies in the West. This timeworn argument, often used to justify autocracy, is now being fused with a religious doctrine earlier propounded by Ilyin: Russia is a unique and separate Christian civilization whose responsibilities are only to God.The exhibition is a brainchild of Bishop Tikhon Shevkunov, who is known for his strong nationalist views and for being Mr. Putin’s confessor. He is also behind a project to rename Russia’s main airports after Russian “heroes.” The list consists almost completely of ethnic Russian men, either military figures or scientists, who contributed to Russia’s military might. Conspicuously, Andrei Sakharov, the father of the Soviet nuclear bomb, who also received the Nobel Peace Prize for human rights campaigning, is missing from the list.Alongside those developments, the role of the church and its influence in the government and the military have been steadily growing. Russia’s Defense Ministry is completing a construction of its own cathedral, billed as the third largest of the Orthodox Christian churches. The ministry recently announced that the cathedral’s steps will be made out of melted German armor captured in World War II.The newfound religious zeal of the military establishment imitates Mr. Putin’s own personal ties with Bishop Tikhon. At a meeting with a group of Russian leaders on Oct. 18, the president’s use of apocalyptic rhetoric was startling. He declared that Russia was not afraid of anyone and that the Russian people were ready to sacrifice themselves for the motherland. As for the use of nuclear weapons, he said that if Russia is attacked, “we will respond, and we will end up in paradise as martyrs, while they will simply croak because they will have no time to repent.” “They,” of course, is the West, which has now been transformed by propagandists from a mere geopolitical foe into an enemy of the true Christian faith represented by Moscow.In reality, however, Mr. Putin’s Russia has reached a dead end. His policies have only led Russia into deeper isolation, now in matters worldly and holy alike. Seemingly unable to change course, Mr. Putin’s regime is desperately searching for an ideology in the dark corners of Russian history and theology. The fact that this ideology depends on creating a nationalist and anti-Western rhetoric alongside a vision of an Orthodox Christian Holy Russia should give anyone pause for serious concern.Michael Khodarkovsky is a professor of history at Loyola University Chicago. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported byBy Maggie HabermanPresident Trump’s personal lawyer on Monday walked back the timeline he had offered a day earlier on when negotiations ended with Russian officials about a proposed Trump Tower project in Moscow, calling his comments “hypothetical” and not intended to convey facts.The latest statement from the lawyer, Rudolph W. Giuliani, was described as a clarification of remarks he made to The New York Times in an interview on Sunday, as well as other remarks he made in interviews on Sunday television news shows.Mr. Giuliani originally quoted Mr. Trump as telling him the negotiations over a Moscow skyscraper continued through “the day I won.” He also said that the president recalled “fleeting conversations” about the deal after the Trump Organization signed a letter of intent to pursue it.The confusion centers on how long Mr. Trump may have known of — or was apprised of — discussions about the Moscow tower proposal, which were led by his former personal lawyer and fixer, Michael D. Cohen.The timeline of negotiations for the skyscraper is important because it shows that Mr. Trump’s company was involved in talks with an American adversary for a business deal through the general election, as he was demanding that President Barack Obama lift sanctions against Russia and urging its government to reveal emails from Hillary Clinton, the Democratic presidential nominee.Even before the uproar over his comments, Mr. Giuliani told The Times that there were no call logs or annotations about conversations on the Moscow project that would provide accurate dates, and he described the president’s legal team as at Mr. Cohen’s “mercy.” As a result, he said, there could have been discussions to emerge later that Mr. Trump did not immediately recall.On Sunday, Mr. Giuliani told The Times that Mr. Trump had said the discussions around the proposed tower were “going on from the day I announced to the day I won.” In television interviews the same day, he said that discussions about the tower might have continued up until November 2016 — the month Mr. Trump was elected president.But on Monday, Mr. Giuliani, in a widely issued statement, said that he was making hypothetical remarks.“My recent statements about discussions during the 2016 campaign between Michael Cohen and then-candidate Donald Trump about a potential Trump Moscow ‘project’ were hypothetical and not based on conversations I had with the president,” Mr. Giuliani said.“My comments did not represent the actual timing or circumstances of any such discussions,” he added. “The point is that the proposal was in the earliest stage and did not advance beyond a free nonbinding letter of intent.”Mr. Cohen pleaded guilty late last year to lying to Congress about the duration of the Moscow proposal; he had indicated initially that it stopped in January 2016.It was not the first time Mr. Giuliani has reversed himself in his comments about issues related to the investigation of Russian election interference that is being led by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III.Last week, Mr. Giuliani backtracked from another surprising assertion that left open the possibility that Trump campaign aides might have coordinated with Russia in its election interference in 2016.“There was no collusion by President Trump in any way, shape or form,” Mr. Giuliani said in a statement on Thursday, reiterating the president’s longstanding defense against accusations that his campaign secretly coordinated with Moscow to help swing the election. “Likewise, I have no knowledge of any collusion by any of the thousands of people who worked on the campaign.”He added, referring to discredited conspiracy theories that the president and his allies have long cited, “The only knowledge I have in this regard is the collusion of the Clinton campaign with Russia, which has so far been ignored.”A day earlier, Mr. Giuliani stopped short of defending Trump campaign aides, drawing speculation that he might have inside knowledge of possible coordination with Russia.“I never said there was no collusion between the campaign or between people in the campaign,” he told CNN. He added: “I said the president of the United States. There is not a single bit of evidence the president of the United States committed the only crime you could commit here, conspired with the Russians to hack” the Democratic National Committee.When Mr. Giuliani was hired last April as the public face of Mr. Trump’s legal team, it was part of a strategy to be more aggressive in fighting back against Mr. Mueller. Some of the president’s closest allies believe that Mr. Giuliani was effective in helping change public opinion about the special counsel investigation — at least to some extent.Since then, however, Mr. Giuliani’s statements have included criticisms of the federal prosecutor’s office in Manhattan that he once led. That office, in the Justice Department’s Southern District of New York, last year secured guilty pleas by Mr. Cohen to a series of crimes, including a campaign finance-related charge that implicated Mr. Trump.Several people close to Mr. Trump have grown exasperated with Mr. Giuliani’s public appearances. They also expressed concern that he is increasing prosecutors’ anger with the president and potentially creating a misimpression about the Trump Tower project in Moscow.Mr. Giuliani’s appearances on the Sunday news shows followed an article on the website Buzzfeed last Friday, which reported that Mr. Mueller had amassed evidence that Mr. Trump “personally directed” Mr. Cohen to lie to Congress about the amount of time that the Moscow proposal was active.The special counsel’s office made the rare move of issuing a public statement about the article after it was published, calling it “inaccurate.”A person familiar with the discussions said that Mr. Trump’s lawyers sent a letter to the special counsel earlier in the day on Friday asking for a clarification. By then, several Democrats had discussed the prospect of moving ahead with impeachment proceedings if the article was true, creating a heightened degree of pressure on Mr. Mueller’s team.Democrats in Congress are preparing for the possibility of an impeachment case against Mr. Trump once Mr. Mueller completes his work. In the meantime, Mr. Cohen is scheduled to testify before Congress in an open hearing on Feb. 7.Since that date was announced, Mr. Trump has repeatedly urged prosecutors and the media to investigate Mr. Cohen’s family. Lanny Davis, a spokesman for Mr. Cohen, has said his client fears for his safety and the safety of his family amid those threats.

Supported byNonfictionWhen you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.By Mimi SwartzTHE BREAKTHROUGH Immunotherapy and the Race to Cure Cancer By Charles Graeber Illustrated. 302 pp. Twelve. $28.If someone were to give cancer a human face, it would probably be that of an archvillain in a comic book series — a master of evil who can adapt at will to any attack, lurking lethally in the shadows, shifting its shape and location, resistant to almost any weaponry humans devise. At least, that has been the story until very recently; the new book by Charles Graeber, “The Breakthrough: Immunotherapy and the Race to Cure Cancer,” artfully traces the history of old and new developments that may have — finally — resulted in an actual cure for the most dreaded of all diseases. If you or a loved one has recently received a cancer diagnosis, or has been living with it as a chronic, if terrifying, condition, this book and the advances it describes offer far more than the usual glimmer of hope.Immunotherapy essentially involves training the body’s own immune system to fight the disease. It’s an idea that scientists have been exploring since the end of the 19th century, when a Harvard-trained surgeon named William Coley met a vivacious young woman with a painful lump on her hand, swollen to half the size of an olive. Coley found and cut out a mass, but it grew back. Eventually it was found to be a sarcoma, a form of cancer that was already racing through his young patient’s body. She died at 17.Disturbed by her death and determined to find another way to treat cancer, Coley began searching through his hospital’s medical records. He soon came upon the case of a sad sack German immigrant named Fred Stein. Stein had been hospitalized in 1885 with an egg-size mass bulging from his left cheek; every time he was operated on — five times in the next three years — it came back stronger until it was, in Graeber’s words, “as big as a man’s fist.” Like many patients who endured frequent hospitalizations, Stein also contracted streptococcus pyogenes, which caused high fever, chills, inflammation and, far too often, death. (Its old name, dating back to the Middle Ages, was St. Anthony’s Fire.)Stein appeared to be yet another doomed patient, but his doctors noted an interesting coincidence: Each time he developed a high fever, his tumors began to shrink. “Four and a half months later both the infection and the cancer were gone, and Stein walked out of the hospital,” Graeber writes.In what could have been an episode of “The Knick,” Coley roamed the poverty-ridden Lower East Side until he tracked down Stein, “a tall, gaunt man with the glandular severity of an Old Testament hermit.” Now Coley had a question: Why had Stein lived while his patient died, when both had, in his mind, experienced the same disease and the same treatment? Coley determined the difference was that Stein’s fever had somehow enlisted his immune system as a cure.That moment could have signaled the beginning of the field of immunotherapy and, perhaps, the beginning of a new way to fight cancer — but no one else in the medical field bought it. Instead, as Graeber points out, Coley was relegated to quackdom, and the conventional, respectable treatments for cancer remained those of surgery, chemotherapy and radiation — “cut, burn and poison” in the words of the author and the medical establishment he writes about. It is simplistic but probably accurate to say that most cancer research went in the wrong direction early and stayed there: The conventional wisdom held that it was best to attack the disease instead of looking for ways to help the body heal itself.Graeber, then, tells an untold story that runs parallel to Siddhartha Mukherjee’s erudite 2011 cancer history, “The Emperor of All Maladies.” Immunotherapy — teaching the immune system to attack cancer — was barely even acknowledged when that book was published. In highlighting it now, “The Breakthrough” relates an unfolding and very frustrating mystery. Researchers have come tantalizingly close to beating the disease — even creating miraculous cures in mice and the occasional human — only to come up against another harrowing complexity in the body they hadn’t imagined or anticipated. Over the years, these scientists became like a platoon that could get itself behind enemy lines, only to find itself without weapons. Returning with weapons, they would find they had no bullets. Returning with bullets, they would discover they had the wrong kind, and so on. “The Breakthrough” is the story of this desperate war waged on a cellular level.Like many medical stories, it isn’t an easy one to tell, thanks to an unlimited supply of jargon and scientific terms that can cause a migraine in the average reader. (“PD-LI seemed to be involved in a different type of T cell inhibition. It wasn’t the activation phase. PD-I/PD-LI seemed to stop T cell attack long after they had been activated.”) Graeber does a good job of hacking through it all, interspersing the medical research with interesting accounts of patients and their determined physicians. One of the most fascinating stories involves the eccentric and highly confident James P. Allison, once an outsider from the small Texas town of Alice, who went on to discover how T cells could be programmed to fight cancerous tumors. Graeber describes him as looking like a cross “between Jerry Garcia and Ben Franklin … a basic science researcher happy to be wrong 99 times to be right once.”Graeber also thoughtfully provides the reader with a two-page glossary in the front and extensive notes in back, including a Cliffs Notes-type section called “The Breakthrough, in Brief” and a jaunty one after it entitled “A Brief Anecdotal History of Disease, Humans, and the Quest for Immunity.” A discerning reader might wish for a better-crafted book, with much of this information woven into the text itself, but it’s a debatable point; you wouldn’t want it to get in the way of the story, and it probably would.Graeber is cautious when writing about modern-day patients who have experienced miraculous recoveries — new treatments that leave them cancer free after all other conventional attempts have failed. He points out that immunotherapy doesn’t work on everyone, and that time and far more research will be replete with as many failures as successes. However, the fact that Allison won the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine this past October assures immunotherapy its rightful place in the fight against cancer. It might just be the killer kryptonite we desperately need.Mimi Swartz is an executive editor at Texas Monthly and the author, most recently, of “Ticker: The Quest to Create an Artificial Heart.”

Supported byRedistribution is important, but it comes too late. By Steven K. VogelMr. Vogel is a political scientist who studies how governments and markets interact.As the Democrats take over the House and Democratic presidential hopefuls begin the slog toward the 2020 primaries, their party is also debating its economic policy vision for the future.Senator Elizabeth Warren, who just announced that she is forming an exploratory committee for a presidential bid, offers a program that focuses more on what the political scientist Jacob Hacker calls “pre-distribution” — the pretax allocation of economic gains. Pre-distribution focuses on how the seemingly arcane rules of the marketplace — like labor and financial regulation — affect who profits most from economic activity in the first place.In contrast, democratic socialists like Senator Bernie Sanders represent the traditional liberal agenda of redistribution through the tax system as well as generous social-welfare spending. Redistributive policies take the market allocation of profits as a given and devise ways to moderate the resulting inequalities after the fact.Let me be clear: We need all of the above to combat the rampant inequality of wealth and power in the United States today. We need progressive taxation to narrow the income gap and to generate revenue for public investment. And we need government support for child care, medical care and other services to support those who cannot work and to empower those who can.But the Democratic Party would be smart to embrace Senator Warren’s approach and a broader pre-distribution agenda as its next big idea because it deals with the root causes of inequality in America and therefore the voter frustration that helped make Donald Trump president.Pre-distribution is less costly than redistribution because it mostly entails regulatory reforms rather than big spending items, like free college or job guarantees. So it would not provoke many Americans’ deep-seated mistrust of big government as much as calls for redistribution would.Conservatives argue that pretax earnings simply reflect the free operation of the market, but they don’t. There is no pristine free market — just real-world markets thoroughly sullied by imbalances of power and regulations that favor corporations over workers. We should not be shy about revising these regulations to achieve more equitable growth. This would not undermine the capitalist economy; it would enrich it.We tend to speak of the government and the market as adversaries in economic policy debates. They aren’t. The government makes the market work, with vast implications for public welfare. Getting serious about pre-distribution means delving into all the things that governments do to enable modern markets to function properly, from corporate law to antitrust.Last summer, Senator Warren introduced the Accountable Capitalism Act, which tries to tackle the deeper causes of inequality in wealth and power in our country. It would require large corporations to obtain a federal charter of corporate citizenship. Employees would elect at least 40 percent of board members. Executives would have to hold the stock shares they receive as compensation for at least five years. And corporations would have to get approval from 75 percent of their shareholders and 75 percent of their directors to make political campaign donations.Corporations are legal entities with distinct privileges, like limited liability, so it would be perfectly reasonable for the government to require corporate boards to include labor representatives. This would encourage corporations to maximize profits by investing in their workers rather than by cutting labor costs.Beyond corporations, a broader pre-distribution agenda would include labor regulation, financial regulation and antitrust. For example, the government should revise labor regulations to strengthen employees’ bargaining power, which would give them a fairer share of corporate returns. The government should crack down on noncompete clauses, which undermine workers’ ability to sell their labor to the highest bidder. And it should restrict mandatory arbitration clauses in employment contracts, which require workers to give up their right to take their employers to court; such clauses were endorsed by a 5-4 Supreme Court decision in May.This pre-distribution approach to labor would likely appeal to swing voters — in particular, ones who voted for both Barack Obama and Mr. Trump — more than the job guarantees proposed by Senator Sanders because pre-distribution means fair pay rather than government largess.Likewise, financial regulation is not just about preventing financial institutions from taking excessive risks or protecting small investors from their own folly. It is also about something more fundamental: who gets the returns from financial activity. In recent years, the relaxing of regulations has allowed financial firms to enjoy greater profits and bank executives to win higher compensation without delivering more value to ordinary investors. So the government should reinforce the Dodd-Frank rules that constrain financial institutions from padding profits via risky trading — not further ease them, as the Trump administration proposes. It should bolster consumer protection, not gut the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. And it should enhance the fiduciary rule, which requires investment advisers to put their clients’ interests first, not refuse to enforce it.On antitrust, the government should be warier about corporate mergers, and more aggressive in stopping dominant firms from squashing their competitors. Over the past few decades, weak antitrust enforcement has meant higher profits for companies that dominate their markets, fewer opportunities for challengers, larger salaries for managers, higher prices for consumers and lower wages for workers.Financial regulation and antitrust are central to Ms. Warren’s proposals for leveling the economic playing field. She came to prominence for her strong advocacy of consumer financial protection, and she has pushed for tougher antitrust policies to curtail the economic and political power of large corporations.The pre-distribution agenda, while rooted in the minutiae of government regulation, actually has a simple core message. It is not about rigging the system to benefit the poor and the middle class, but about unrigging it from benefiting the wealthy and the powerful. It is about shaping markets to allocate returns from economic activity more fairly in the first place rather than trying to correct inequities after the fact. In essence, it is about giving consumers more value for their dollar and workers the wages they are due. What could be the problem with that?Steven K. Vogel (@StevenKVogel) is a professor of political science at the University of California, Berkeley, and the author of “Marketcraft: How Governments Make Markets Work.”Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported byThe strange saga of a fake female gamer and her encounter with the misogynistic world of e-sports. By Megan CondisMs. Condis is an assistant professor of game studies and a gamer.Over the past few weeks, the gaming community has been consumed by a strange episode — one involving a game called Overwatch, a player named Ellie and a so-called social experiment gone wrong.For the unfamiliar, Overwatch is a first-person shooter video game in which teams of six players must work together to accomplish an objective while avoiding being killed by opposing teams. As of May 2018, there were approximately 40 million Overwatch players regularly battling it out worldwide, making the game one of the most popular out there.It is also a spectator sport, with serious money at stake; the Overwatch League is a professional e-sports organization akin to the N.B.A. and the N.F.L. that hands out millions of dollars in prize money and brings in millions of viewers. This league is, in turn, fed by the Overwatch Contenders, a series of tournaments designed to identify talented young players who could turn professional.It will surprise no one to learn that a vast majority of these players, professionals and amateurs alike, are male and that women who venture into these spaces face an especially unpleasant environment. Women who compete professionally in e-sports face heckling from teammates and fans, and are sometimes accused of serving as fronts for male players. At the same time, team owners with an eye toward reaching a potentially gigantic untapped market of young female viewers remain eager to diversify their rosters to provide an entry point for girls who might never have thought of video games as being “for them.”Into this toxic storm came Ellie.Ellie — no last name given — appeared at first to be a previously undiscovered, highly ranked female player who’d seemingly come out of nowhere to dominate the Overwatch leader boards. As such, she was a tempting recruit for the Contenders team Second Wind, which, according to a statement released this month, had found itself “desperately” in need of a new player to fill a hole in its roster.Ellie, however, proved reticent to reveal anything about her identity other than her online alias. Some fans argued that she did so with good reason: The e-sports world has an ugly history of haranguing female players to the breaking point. In 2015, for instance, Hyerim Lee, a professional competitor known as MagicAmy in another popular game, Hearthstone, was accused by a fellow player of being nothing more than a pretty face and a front for an anonymous man or team of players. These accusations led to an investigation; Ms. Lee was vindicated and her employer, the team Tempo Storm, offered to “support MagicAmy in an attempt to clear her name.” However, in the wake of the negative attention, Ms. Lee opted to retire from professional play instead.In 2016, another professional player — this time an Overwatch specialist — named Kim Se-yeon and known as Geguri, also faced charges of cheating from her male competitors, though in her case she was accused of simply hacking the game itself, not of having a man play for her. At least two players were so confident that she must have been pulling the wool over the community’s eyes that they staked their careers on it, promising not only to apologize but also to retire from the league if they were proved wrong. To their credit, they did so following a live-streamed event where she demonstrated her preternatural mouse skills for all to see.So there was reason enough for Ellie to want to keep her identity a secret, and Second Wind indicated it would respect Ellie’s desire for privacy. Others, however, remained suspicious and soon enough the cycle of harassment, abuse, threats and calls for doxxing began. (Doxxing is the online practice of publishing people’s personal, private information without their consent.) Not long after, Ellie announced that she would not be playing for Second Wind after all. It seemed as though yet another female e-sports athlete had been driven away from the scene.But this time, the story had a twist. Soon after her early retirement was announced, another highly accomplished but as yet undrafted Overwatch player calling himself Punisher confessed to a fellow player that he was, in fact, the man behind the Ellie persona and that the entire fiasco was intended to function as a kind of “social experiment.” In other words, it turned out that Ellie really had been lying about her identity all along.The strange story of Ellie underscores a few facets of e-sports that still make the industry unusual, even as it has expanded into a multimillion-dollar business. The first is the degree to which it allows for anonymity: Unlike players in traditional sports, e-sports athletes are not necessarily expected to be physically present at an event to compete, and the Overwatch Contenders rules do not require participants to use their legal names.The second is that e-sports pose no physical barriers to mixed-gender competition. It is a realm in which quick thinking, creative problem-solving and hand-eye coordination, not size or strength, are needed to succeed.Despite this — or perhaps because of it — fans and gamers have erected a series of informal psychological barriers against female participation. Some male players will go so far as to throw their games in protest against playing with women; indeed, one of the players on Ellie’s team, Second Wind’s team captain, Robert Blohm (HaKu), went as far as to say that “females should not be” in top-ranking games with him. (He later tweeted an apology.) These barriers and gatekeeping even extend to fandom: Female gamers with no professional aspirations are regularly accused by their male counterparts of being “fake geek girls” — which certainly isn’t helpful for an industry trying to expand its viewership.If Punisher was conducting a “social experiment,” it isn’t clear what he was trying to prove. Was it intended to demonstrate the trials and tribulations that female e-sports athletes must endure on their way to the top? If so, for many fans, the fact that no woman ever actually existed proved only that games media outlets were a little too quick to call the community sexist. Was it to demonstrate that women actually have an easier time than men when it comes to achieving success — because Punisher himself went unsigned, while “Ellie” was snapped up immediately? If so, it’s worth asking why Second Wind was willing to take such a humongous risk on an unknown quantity. What did it see as the potential benefits? What public relations problems did they think she might be able to help solve?Only one thing is certain: Punisher’s “social experiment” did not take place in a vacuum, and the memory of it will linger in the Overwatch community, for good or ill. In the aftermath of Ellie’s swift rise and fall, women trying to break into professional e-sports will probably face greater pressure than ever to prove their existence to male fans. That is not a good outcome, either for the women themselves or for an industry that needs them.Megan Condis is an assistant professor of game studies at Texas Tech University and the author of “Gaming Masculinity: Trolls, Fake Geeks, and the Gendered Battle for Online Culture.”

Supported byAt a time of identity crisis for London, many designers, including Craig Green, and Hussein Chalayan, defiantly flew the flag for British men’s wear.By Elizabeth PatonLONDON — The arrival of the new year has done little to quell the nerves about a London in flux. The economic and political future of Britain remains uncertain, and the battle over how the country should leave the European Union continues to rage.It has prompted an identity crisis that spilled over into the first of the coming round of fashion shows, which began on Friday with London Fashion Week Men’s. After all, the old narrative of London as a global metropolis was an identity deeply woven into its designs. So it was of little surprise that, last weekend, passionate questions around authentic presentations of self and voice, as well as explorations of artifice and mirage, were front and center on the runway. Here’s what shone through.This season, the stakes were raised by some of the brightest young talents on the fashion week calendar: recognition, perhaps, of a need to boost their credibility outside of their home base.31 PhotosView Slide Show ›Case in point: Charles Jeffrey Loverboy. The latest collection, entitled “Darling Little Sillies” and showcased in a dilapidated Victorian power station on the banks of the River Thames, was inspired by a first edition of “The Story of Peter Pan,” with a heady dose of 1920s cabaret culture thrown in. Amid prancing actors, shattered chandeliers and bathtubs filled with books, came bold, oversize tartan suits and exquisite embroidered coats; colorful graphic mohair sweaters; and dramatic scarlet evening gowns, either one-shouldered with a dropped waist or sleeveless with a full tiered skirt. Mr. Jeffrey’s prodigious talent was visible in both cut and construction, as was an effort to make his often outrageous styles more accessible.The same could not be said of Art School, the gender non-binary collective that this season graduated from the bosom of Fashion East, a talent incubator. The designers Eden Loweth and Tom Barratt said they had been picturing models on the way to the opera, but it was still hard to imagine the exuberant explosion of silk slips, wobbly stilettos, hacked-up sweatshirts and bottom-skimming metallic tuxedos as actual clothes.More commercial was Edward Crutchley, who showed a highly appetizing collection he termed “business wear with bite” and “expensive elegance.” Think sleek tailored evening looks for both sexes including pinstriped suits and luxurious cashmere knits, printed lounge pajamas and silky cigarette pants; all careful, considered and admirably grown-up.And then there was Samuel Ross of A-Cold-Wall, the most recent recipient of the Fashion Award’s prize for British Emerging Men’s Wear Designer and one of the most-watched names on the London scene. Like Mr. Jeffrey, Mr. Ross has stepped things up a notch while looking to the news cycle. His show was inspired, in part, by the immigration crisis and the movement of people across bodies of water in Europe. Models came down a runway adrift in inky black water, surrounded by growling dogs and dancers who slinked and sighed in the shadows. Constantly looking over their shoulders, they wore versions of the sportswear that has become this brand’s signature — hoodies, macs, protective utility vests and tailored tracksuits in muted tones — with reflective piping and compasses sewn into garments. “Fashion has overdone nostalgia in an attempt to cash in on your impossible longing for a perfect you and perfect time, that doesn’t exist now and actually never did.” So read the show notes of Liam Hodges, a London men’s wear favorite, whose kaleidoscopic collection of tracksuits and T-shirts was inspired by the growing pains of “modern day cyborgs,” touching on ideas around evolving online and offline identities. It was a theme also plumbed by Cottweiler, designed by Matthew Dainty and Ben Cottrell. Their latest collection, presented 12 levels down in a dank East End car park alongside moss-covered urinals, was a lament about the decline in face-to-face interaction (specifically cruising in parks), thanks to the rise of social media. Techy tracksuits and multipocket outerwear in verdant hues, laden with cheeky touches like open flies, midriff hints and bottom-skimming zips, were framed by a 10-piece capsule collection of sleek raincoats made with the Italian label Allegri.Hussein Chalayan, who celebrates his 25th anniversary in the fashion business this year, embraced his own next stage with tailoring — experimental origami-style folds and wide-cut padded jackets with kimono sleeves — as well as tongue-in-cheek, class-infused active wear from the worlds of equestrianism and après-ski. It needn’t all be bad, these clothes seemed to say, at a time when nothing is quite as it appears.“Pretense healthily lifts us away from our reality,” Mr. Chalayan said, “adding a richness to the monotony of our lives.”Also adding richness: Craig Green’s return to the schedule after a brief Florentine sojourn at Pitti in Italy in June. His beautiful designs rooted around timeless, nomadic men continue to earn him admiration (he won British Designer of the Year men’s wear at the Fashion Awards in December for the third year in a row). Belted trench coats in black, blues and earthy reds had an enveloping, cocoon-like quality, while a series of long-sleeved tees and trousers in tightly elasticated plastic scales came with billowing hoods to match. The point being traditions did not need to be forgotten — there were ancient knitwear techniques woven into almost every look — even if the focus remains moving forward.Also returning: Patrick Grant of E-Tautz, who in recent years swapped the runway for simpler presentations. He had travel on his mind, namely to Brazil, which inspired the exotic pops of color in his elegant collection of single- and double-breasted jackets and slouchy, wide-leg pants. They were suave, well-cut clothes with a sense of gentlemanly confidence, an underrepresented aesthetic on the current calendar lineup.Christopher Raeburn celebrated his 10th anniversary this season by revisiting and reimagining some of his most popular creations — fitting given his brand’s “remade, reduced, recycled” ethos. Staples of his utilitarian street wear aesthetic, like typhoon suits, oversize khaki parkas and patchwork tracksuits, were shown in new and innovative materials on an army of models. There were also collaborations: with Range Rover (premium sunglasses) and Margot Vaaderpass, a fellow Royal College of Art designer (roll-neck knitwear made from recycled yarn), to demonstrate the power in numbers.David Beckham, an owner of Kent and Curwen, the British heritage men’s wear brand, wheeled out his wife, Victoria; his eldest son, Brooklyn; and other key members of the clan for a slap-up breakfast on Sunday morning, the better to debut a capsule collaboration with the BBC television series “Peaky Blinders.” There were classic three-piece tweed suits, signature collarless shirts, and peg-leg wool trousers — all in autumnal tones — alongside a motley mix of rugby shirts, Crombie coats, argyle sweaters and striped skinny suits. Also flat caps, which, Mr. Beckham admitted, “I got from my granddad. I wore his from a very young age.”And now? “Brooklyn has taken it on as well.”An earlier version of this article misstated the number of consecutive years that Craig Green has won British Designer of the Year for men’s wear at the Fashion Awards. When he won in December, it was the third year in a row.Elizabeth Paton is a reporter for the Styles section, covering the fashion and luxury sectors in Europe. Before joining The Times in 2015, she was a reporter at the Financial Times both in London and New York.  @LizziePaton 

Supported byCBD? Check. Bubbles? Check. Ironic fonts? Check. The aggressive marketing of commodified wellness? Oh yes.By Kate CarrawayEase, comfort, and pleasure are what millennials, those members of the high-anxiety “Doom Generation,” really want — and capitalism is into it. A new beverage called Recess is a case study in where those desires meet. Bubbles? Yes. CBD? Check. Sans-serif block font? Yeah! A knowing, nudging, creepily on-point Instagram presence? Obviously.Recess is a sparkling water infused with CBD (government name: cannabidiol), a nonintoxicating hemp extract that is said to act as a pain reliever, anti-anxiety, anti-inflammatory and chillifier. The drink also contains adaptogens, ephemera from the neverland of is-it-food-or-not that are supposed to reduce stress and improve memory, focus and immunity. Their efficacy is without definitive evidence, but both CBD and adaptogens are decidedly a thing in functional health and wellness — and their marketing.Recess is headquartered in New York City and made in the Hudson Valley (it was formulated in Beacon and is produced in Fishkill). The company was founded and is still owned by a millennial named Benjamin Witte, who previously worked in tech marketing in San Francisco.In the era before the commodified wellness movement, this kind of drink would have been tucked into the dimmest refrigerated corner of the spookiest health-food store, not in high demand at $29.99 for a six pack. (The company has since caught up, but Recess says that a few weeks after its October start it had 4,000 back-orders.) Now, the mania for CBD (and the vague curiosity about adaptogens) means that Recess — the matte, sunset palette of the cans as appealing as a luxury lip gloss or free candy or a toy car — has lit up the shifting aspirations of the middle and upper classes of millennials.“We canned a feeling,” breathes the copy on the Recess website. The site uses phrases like “the unlikely friendship we’re here for” and, regarding a sample pack, “for those who fear commitment,” channeling the half-embarrassed self-aware sincerity that defines the millennial mood.The site, social media and product all read, “Calm Cool Collected,” an apparent mantra and tagline that is all feeling, all affect, all in the soothing lexicon of self-improvement that proliferates on platforms like Instagram. Recess offers a product that’s addressing the midafternoon dip otherwise fulfilled by a cigarette, a coffee or a cookie (or, actually getting high). And this is all after it riffs on the childhood memory of a daily routine break.Alcohol-free, caffeine-free, sugar-free (or almost sugar-free) convenience drinks are, inexplicably, a rare commodity.A partial solve is in carbonated mineral water, sparkling water and seltzer. (They’re all different, but let’s keep it moving.) Perrier has added orange and strawberry and other flavors to the usual lemon and lime. Spindrift has real fruit. But it’s LaCroix that seems to be desired by millennials more cohesively and completely than anything else, including the toast spread with the fatty fruit of which we dare not speaketh.Recess builds on LaCroix’s desirability, if not its accessibility. Its sales are largely driven by e-commerce, with limited IRL availability in New York, while LaCroix can be found in most major supermarkets and corner shops. Both brands sell flavor, tribal identity and a pause. Their liquid-speedy opposites, the endless lineup of “energy” drinks, feel very Empire-era outdated in the context of ascendant millennial wellness.Sparkling water may be an easier, more appealing way into wellness for the uninitiated than herbs, oils, pills and powders. (The effects of these substances are still being studied, so it’s worth reviewing with a medical professional before you try them.)The growth of the wellness industry is often attributed to Gen-X celebrities on the back nine of their careers. The natural participants, however, are people in their 20s and 30s, who have never known the promise of life improving economic stability, or job security; whose lives are ordered by debt so unwieldy as to be abstract; who, instead of aspiring toward power in its familiar forms, want relief — a general softening of life — and prefer sober dance parties, life-hacking podcasts and bullet journals. A can of seltzer is just another opportunity to sell them a release from cares.Recess’s website features the charms of vaporwave internet art and Lisa Frank-style nostalgia, while their Instagram account evokes the combined look of “Endless Summer” with “Floridian retiree” and the summer-camp psychedelia that has replaced “Lifestyle Lumberjack” as the default millennial style choice. One post features a productless shot, a 1970s-Hockney-gone-surrealist composition involving a half-dog, half-cat collaged onto shadowy pinks and babied blues, as discomfiting and mesmerizing as anything else on Weird Instagram right now.Is the brand in on the joke, spinning millennial nu-irony for likes and sales, or completely earnest? Definitely both. The pastel-dream lifestyle is pitched sincerely (and received accordingly, by millennials who find comfort in fluffy-cloud aesthetics) but the product and marketing still exist within the general boundaries of detached and ironized millennial sentiment, where the warmth is simultaneously demanded and mocked.The brand’s social-media marketing also features a series of nanoinfluencers — appropriately attractive and appealing unpaid friends or friends-of-friends of the founder, some of them reclining and unwinding, some doing their creative work and talking about it for the ’gram.The three available flavors — “peach ginger,” “pom hibiscus” and “blackberry chai” — roll on a continuum alongside the rose gold of an iPhone 6s Plus; now-washed “millennial pink,” the signature color of capitalized feminism (think #GIRLBOSS; think Thinx); this-very-moment’s power lavender; the diluted, creamy rose of Glossier-ed cheek and lip products (and, the brand’s cult-y pink pouches, made of glorified Bubble Wrap for a bonus A.S.M.R. experience); and Pantone’s 2019 Color of the Year, “Living Coral,” a warm, gold-ish pink. The colorway references the pastels that defined hip-hop fashion five years ago (as always, rap got there first) and the material culture of 1980s and 1990s, so, “youth” for millennials. The brand’s minimalist typography is similarly familiar from and to the visual culture of start-ups and other (largely direct-to-consumer) brands like Outdoor Voices and Casper. Recess also uses a chummy script-style logo and an intentionally awkward sans-serif block type, similar to the shoe brand Allbirds, affirming the current sensibility of young (or youngish: the oldest millennials are 38!) creative people and those who dress like them.In the end, whatever creates this affective experience is invaluable. It’s actually really, really hard to find some branded unit of identity to buy that feels good, looks good, is worth what it costs and doesn’t seem to compromise anyone else’s human dignity. When a product like Recess seems to fulfill a millennial consumer’s desires, we’re in.

Supported byBy Mike IvesHONG KONG — Singapore takes pride in being a technology hub where municipal decisions are driven by cutting-edge data science.“Data is the new currency, and with open data, the possibilities are endless!” the government says on its “smart nation” portal.But that image has been dented by two embarrassing data breaches.Last year, a cyberattack on Singapore’s public health system compromised data from 1.5 million people. And on Monday, the Health Ministry said that medical records for 14,200 H.I.V.-positive people in the city-state had been obtained by an American whose Singaporean partner worked at the ministry. The ministry said it learned on Jan. 22 that the records had been illegally disclosed online.Experts say the breaches highlight the potential pitfalls for Singapore and other countries that are pushing to make vast troves of data more accessible and centralized. Do the public benefits justify the inherent risks to privacy? And can anyone prevent senior officials from misusing information they have at their fingertips?In addition, the H.I.V. records breach illuminates the widespread stigma and discrimination that people with the virus face in Singapore, a conservative society where gay sex — which accounts for roughly half of new H.I.V. infections in the country — is banned under a colonial-era law.“Why are people so concerned about their status being known?” said Eamonn Murphy, the Asia Pacific director at the United Nations agency UNAIDS. “It’s the issue of stigma and discrimination, and it’s familial, for some of them, but clearly workplace: fear of loss of employment.”“That’s a bigger issue that the ministry or the government of Singapore should be trying to address,” Mr. Murphy said.The authorities say the perpetrator in the cyberattack last year targeted the medical records of Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong, a cancer survivor. S. Iswaran, the minister of communication and information, told lawmakers this month that the attacker could not be identified because of national security concerns.Mr. Iswaran also said that copied personal data had not “emerged in any form” on the so-called dark web, a part of the internet that relies on encryption and is often used for criminal activities.In the second episode, the Health Ministry said it learned in 2016 that a foreigner might have been in possession of confidential information from the H.I.V. registry. The records included names, identification numbers, contact details, H.I.V. test results and related medical information for 5,400 Singaporeans whose infections were diagnosed as recently as January 2013, and 8,800 foreigners diagnosed up to December 2011.The suspect, Mikhy K. Farrera Brochez, is an American who reportedly tested positive for H.I.V. in 2008 using a fake passport from the Bahamas, shortly after arriving in Singapore.Foreigners with H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS, are not allowed to work in Singapore. To get around that, prosecutors said, Mr. Brochez’s partner, Ler Teck Siang — a Singaporean doctor who works at the Health Ministry — twice submitted his own blood sample when the Singaporean authorities tested Mr. Brochez for H.I.V.“This incident is believed to have arisen from the mishandling of information by Ler, who is suspected of not having complied with the policies and guidelines on the handling of confidential information,” the Health Ministry said in a statement on Monday.Desmond Wai, a gastroenterologist at Mount Elizabeth Novena Specialist Center in Singapore, said that the cyberattack last year illustrated how the country’s electronic records are vulnerable to hacking, no matter how secure they may appear.“There is a Chinese saying: ‘If the good is one feet tall, the evil will be three feet tall,’” he said. "So I think there’s always a risk.”Dr. Wai said that for the most part it was not fair to blame the Health Ministry for the second breach, because it would be hard to prevent a senior official from gaining access to the government’s H.I.V. registry.But he added that Dr. Ler, the former head of the ministry’s National Public Health Unit, should not have had such wide access to national H.I.V. records in the first place, nor an ability to download them.Tom Uren, a cyberpolicy analyst at the Australian Strategic Policy Institute in Canberra, said that the leak of Singapore’s H.I.V. records highlighted a common challenge that many governments face: trying improve overall health services and efficiency while also protecting individuals’ privacy.While Singapore’s H.I.V. registry was clearly raided by a “bad apple,” he added, the leak points to potential problems with oversight of the record-keeping system — and with the storage of H.I.V. test results alongside so much personal information.“There’s actually no need for all that data to be held together,” Mr. Uren said.Mr. Brochez was convicted in 2017 of numerous offenses, including lying to labor officials about his H.I.V. status, providing false information to the police and using forged degree certificates in job applications, the ministry said.He was sentenced to 28 months in prison, and later deported. The ministry said he was currently outside Singapore, but it did not specify where.His partner, Dr. Ler, was sentenced in November to 24 months in prison for abetting cheating and providing false information to the police and the Health Ministry. Dr. Ler, who is appealing that conviction, has also been charged with mishandling confidential information related to H.I.V.-positive patients.On Monday, the Health Ministry apologized for “the anxiety and distress caused by this incident” and said it had been contacting those affected by the breach. The ministry also said it would “continue to regularly review our systems to ensure that they remain secure and that the necessary safeguards are in place.”As of late Tuesday evening, the ministry had not responded to questions from The New York Times about how the two data breaches occurred.Advocacy groups say the disclosure of so many records has sent chills through H.I.V.-positive people in Singapore who were already battling a widespread stigma.About half of the roughly 450 new cases of H.I.V. infection reported in Singapore each year are transmitted through same-sex intercourse, according to the Health Ministry’s data. But experts say that a major barrier to prevention is that few gay and bisexual men in Singapore are open about their sexual orientation.“Fear is what drives people underground and makes them come too late to health services,” said Mr. Murphy of UNAIDS. “One, it doesn’t help them for their own personal health outcome, and two, it doesn’t help prevent further transmissions of disease. This is why it’s so critical to have a protective environment.”Roy Chan, an expert on H.I.V. at the National University of Singapore and the president of the advocacy group Action for AIDS Singapore, said in a statement that the group was “deeply troubled” by the data leak.He said it was a criminal act that should be “condemned and answered in the most severe terms possible.”Paerin Choa, a spokesman for Pink Dot SG, a group that advocates for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people in Singapore, said victims of the leak now faced “the prospect of further stigmatization and discrimination, thanks to the fear and ignorance surrounding H.I.V. and people living with H.I.V.”Mr. Choa said that people had no legal protection from discrimination in the workplace based on their H.I.V. status, sexual orientation or gender identity, and that the practice of deporting immigrants who test positive for the virus was unnecessarily cruel.He said the government should “take moral and political responsibility by acknowledging what H.I.V.-positive individuals have to endure in our country, and take concrete action to enact anti-discrimination legislation to support” them.“This would reduce harm done to those whose names have been exposed,” he said.

Supported byTech FixA.I. that responds to your voice. Next-generation wireless networks. If this year’s biggest consumer technology trends have a familiar ring, there’s a reason for that. By Brian X. ChenImagine a future where you are never truly alone. Even when your spouse is on a business trip or your children are away at summer camp, you will always have someone (or something) to talk to. In the morning, you could ask the microwave to heat up a bowl of oatmeal. In your car, you could tell your stereo to put on some ’90s music. And when you walk into the office, you could ask your smartphone, “What’s on my calendar today?”This is increasingly the world the tech industry is building with a bloating portfolio of devices that can react to voice commands — and that the companies will be pitching to you even more in 2019. The future will be on display next week at CES, a consumer electronics trade show in Las Vegas that serves as a window into the year’s hottest tech trends. Artificially intelligent virtual assistants will take center stage as the most important tech topic, with companies big and small expected to showcase voice-controlled devices like robot vacuums, alarm clocks, refrigerators and car accessories. Most of these products will be powered by Amazon’s Alexa or Google’s Assistant, the two most popular artificially intelligent assistants, industry insiders said.“A.I. will pervade the show,” said Gary Shapiro, chief executive of the Consumer Technology Association, which owns CES. If this all sounds like a repeat of last year, that’s because much of it is. Artificial intelligence was 2018’s hottest tech trend, too. In other words, the tech industry is in a state of iteration rather than making leaps and bounds with something totally new. Other tech trends that are progressing include the debut this year of fifth-generation cellular networks, known as 5G, which will significantly quicken mobile internet speeds. Cybersecurity products for home networks are also proliferating, an important safeguard now that consumers own so many devices that can connect to the internet.But as is often the case, there will also be plenty of talk in the coming week about overly optimistic tech that you would do best to sidestep for now. That’s because some of the most hyped technologies — especially self-driving cars — are so far from reality that you won’t see them in stores or dealerships anytime soon.Here’s what to watch, and what to avoid.In 2015, Amazon birthed the Echo, the artificially intelligent speaker featuring the virtual assistant known as Alexa. A year later, Google responded with Home, its smart speaker powered by Google’s own digital companion, called Assistant. Since then, in a bid to become your go-to digital companion, the two tech giants have teamed up with makers of devices like thermostats, doorbells, light bulbs and car accessories to add their virtual assistants to them.Google is expected to be even more aggressive this year with its Assistant. The company will triple the size of its presence at CES this year, suggesting that it is likely to unveil a large array of products that work with Assistant.“We’re really leaning into the Assistant as the best way to get things done, helping you for lots of things as you go about your day,” said Nick Fox, a Google executive who oversees Assistant.Amazon said it would also showcase a wide range of technologies that work with Alexa next week, as part of a vision it calls Alexa Everywhere. The company’s goal is to expand the reach of its virtual assistant into every part of people’s lives, including the kitchen, the living room, the office and the car. For you and me, here’s a cautionary note: Virtual assistants are still in their infancy and have many shortcomings. We have to speak a very specific command to trigger a virtual assistant to control a device, like setting the temperature on a thermostat or turning on a lamp. Those unfamiliar with the lingo may find the devices even more difficult to use than pressing a button inside an app.“We still have to learn their language, and they have not learned our language,” said Frank Gillett, a tech analyst for Forrester, a technology research company.Lost in the hype about virtual assistants is whether people truly want an omnipresent companion involved in their everyday tasks. Owners of smart speakers mostly summoned digital assistants for basic functions like listening to music, checking the weather and setting a timer, according to research by Nielsen last year.Plenty of people install antivirus software on their computers. But what about all the other devices that can be connected to the internet, like smart watches, phones, televisions and speakers? In an era of smart things, the Wi-Fi router is becoming a bigger target for hackers, so expect a flood of new equipment and software that offer protection by improving your network security.For a sense of what to expect, consider Eero Plus, a subscription service that Eero, a maker of Wi-Fi equipment, released last year. Eero Plus includes protection against viruses and malware for all the devices connected to its Wi-Fi network. Last year, NetGear released NetGear Armor, a similar security service.More should follow this year — beginning next week at CES, where Scalys, a networking company, plans to introduce TrustBox, a router with built-in security features.This year, the wireless industry will begin a big upgrade to its infrastructure. Phone carriers like AT&amp;T and Verizon Wireless say the 5G technology will deliver data at incredibly fast speeds, allowing people to download entire movies in a few seconds.In addition to increasing smartphone speeds, 5G will be important for other types of devices, like robots, self-driving cars, drones and security cameras. The technology is expected to greatly reduce latency, or the time it takes for devices to communicate with one another.But don’t get too excited. Carriers say the new network technology will be deployed this year in only a few cities in the United States, and in some parts of Britain, Germany, Switzerland, China, South Korea and Australia. And not many smartphones will be compatible with 5G initially. Some Chinese handset makers and Samsung Electronics have said they will release their first 5G smartphones this year. Apple is not expected to release a 5G-compatible iPhone until 2020.“For the early adopters with deep pockets, that’s great,” Mr. Gillett said. “For the rest of us, big whoop.”Virtual reality and self-driving cars have been talked about a lot in recent years, and they will still be talked about this year. But these two technologies are still nascent or premature.Over the last two years, tech companies like Facebook’s Oculus, HTC, Google and Samsung have flooded the market with virtual reality headsets and plenty of software and games. Yet people have not exactly embraced the products.“The industry has been plagued by high-cost hardware, motion sickness, a dearth of compelling content and a general lack of consumer interest,” said Victoria Petrock, an analyst for the research firm eMarketer, in a recent post.Self-driving cars are also still many years from becoming mainstream. Even though some companies have permits to test autonomous cars in California, Arizona and elsewhere, several of the leaders in the technology — such as Alphabet’s Waymo — have refrained from committing to a release date for self-driving vehicles.“There’s going to be a lot of noise about automotive technology, but nothing distinct or specific,” Mr. Gillett said. Brian X. Chen is the lead consumer technology writer. He reviews products and writes Tech Fix, a column about solving tech-related problems. Before joining The Times in 2011 he reported on Apple and the wireless industry for Wired.  @bxchen 

Supported byBy Paul Mozur and Karen WeiseSHANGHAI — Under China’s president, Xi Jinping, the last vestiges of the global internet have slowly disappeared from an online world that had already shut out Twitter, Google and Facebook.Now one of the last survivors, Microsoft’s Bing search engine, appears to have joined them — even though the American company already censors its results in China.The Chinese government appeared to block the search engine on Wednesday, in what would be a startling renunciation of more than a decade of efforts by Microsoft to engage with Beijing to make its products available. If the block proves to be permanent, it would suggest that Western companies can do little to persuade China to give them access to what has become the world’s largest internet market by users, especially at a time of increased trade and economic tensions with the United States.The Redmond, Wash., company has cooperated with local companies to provide its Windows and cloud services to win acceptance by the Chinese government. Its long-established research and development center has turned out valuable products and launched the careers of a generation of artificial-intelligence experts who have started important new companies in China.Beijing has carried out several waves of increasingly intense crackdowns on internet freedoms as the Communist Party has cemented its control over more aspects of Chinese life. That includes cracking down on foreign internet products, including blocks on Instagram and WhatsApp in recent years.Lately, the Chinese authorities have questioned or detained activists for posting on Twitter, even though the vast majority of people in China can’t access the microblogging service. (The activists generally posted on Twitter via special software that can circumvent China’s censors.)Chinese officials disclose few specifics about their censorship practices, and Bing’s status as of Thursday was not entirely clear. The Cyberspace Administration of China did not immediately respond to a request for comment.In a statement, Microsoft said, “We’ve confirmed that Bing is currently inaccessible in China and are engaged to determine next steps.”Greatfire.org, a group that tracks what sites are blocked in China, said the site appeared to be inaccessible in parts of the country but reachable in others. China’s blockages often take time to spread nationwide, though in the past some services have been blocked in some places only to be restored later.With Bing, Microsoft tried to play by China’s rules. For example, a search for the Dalai Lama, the religious leader, would turn up state media accounts within China that accused him of stirring up hatred and separatism. Outside the country, it would point to sites like Wikipedia.Other searches, like for Tiananmen Square or the Falun Gong religious group, were similarly scrubbed, though over the years users reported that using coded language could help turn up posts about some topics that were generally controlled.Blocking Bing would brick over one of the last holes in a wall of online filters that has isolated China’s internet from the rest of the world. Although not widely used in China, Bing has remained an option of last resort for some in China looking for an alternative to the dominant local search engine, Baidu. While it continues to dominate search traffic in China, Baidu has been at the center of complaints about poor search results and advertisements for questionable medical treatments.Earlier this week, a former journalist, Fang Kecheng, accused Baidu of largely returning search results that were links to its own products instead of those from external sites. The accusation, which Mr. Fang posted on social media with the headline “Baidu the Search Engine is Dead,” went viral in China.Baidu said in a statement that less than 10 percent of its search results included one specific Baidu product that Mr. Fang had singled out, and that its practices of using its own products in search results helped speed up download times.In an interview, Mr. Fang said the Chinese internet was developing into a series of walled gardens, rather than the sprawling forum for ideas that makes online life appealing to many, thanks to censorship and to the rise of big Chinese internet companies like Tencent and Bytedance that dominate the online experience on mobile phones. Blocking Bing would only make it worse.“Bing compromised in order to have a Chinese version to get into the country,” said Mr. Fang, a doctoral candidate at the Annenberg School for Communication at University of Pennsylvania. “It would be pathetic if even this can’t exist. We have one less alternative.”China has long been a difficult market for Microsoft. For years, it struggled to contend with widespread piracy of its Windows and Office software.In July 2014, four of its offices in China were stormed by officials who questioned executives, copied contracts and records and downloaded data from the company’s servers. What was described as an antitrust inquiry was spurred by Microsoft’s decision to end support for older Windows software to encourage users to switch to newer versions that were more difficult to pirate, according to analysts. The withdrawal of support for a still widely used, if dated, version of Windows only underscored the country’s reliance on foreign software.In 2017, to ensure state support for Windows, the company partnered with a state-run firm to produce a government-approved version of its Windows 10 software. The firm, Chinese Electronics Technology Corporation, makes electronics for the Chinese military and is a major vendor of surveillance technology in Xinjiang, where the government has thrown hundreds of thousands of Uighurs, a local Muslim minority, into re-education camps.Beijing has insisted on closer scrutiny of software used by government agencies and companies since Edward Snowden, a former American government consultant, revealed that United States intelligence agencies used American technology for hacking purposes.Despite the difficulties, foreign companies still hold out hope for access to China, which with its size and its thriving mobile phone culture represents a potentially vast market. LinkedIn and Airbnb still have businesses there, though they take pains to comply with local laws. LinkedIn, which Microsoft bought in 2016, censors content in China, and Airbnb coordinates with local authorities to provide access about who is staying at its listings.But trade tensions between China and the United States are only adding to the difficulties. Many American companies, along with Trump administration officials, accuse China of systematically forcing American companies to hand over their intellectual property to local partners or to government officials in the name of national security. So far, China has stopped short of boycotting American products, which could escalate the trade conflict and damage the Chinese economy.Baidu’s falling reputation led to some support among China’s intelligentsia for a re-entry by Google into the market with a censored search engine internally code-named Project Dragonfly. Its plans led to widespread criticism from Google’s own employees. Some Chinese activists also protested, arguing a censored search would be tantamount to complicity with Chinese censorship. Google’s chief executive, Sundar Pichai, has said it is “not close to launching a search product in China.”Mr. Fang, the former journalist, said he had mixed feelings about a Google re-entry, noting that it would be good for Chinese who want a better search engine, but also that it would normalize censorship.“I feel people in the West can say from their point of view that they are totally against Google coming back, as they have nothing to do with China,” he said. “But as someone who truly wishes that Chinese are able to get better-quality information, I can’t 100 percent stand against it.”Paul Mozur reported from Shanghai, and Karen Weise from Seattle. Qiqing Lin contributed research.

Supported byLet us help you start your day. By Penn Bullock(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning. President Trump’s address to the American people, new details in the Russia investigation and a 210-foot “fatberg.” Here’s the latest: On the 18th day of the partial government shutdown, President Trump gave a national address from the White House, citing misleading statistics to declare that there is a “humanitarian and security crisis” on the southern border and demanding billions of dollars in funding for a wall, which he claimed would be “indirectly paid for” by Mexico. That was one of many assertions we fact-checked in a live briefing on the address.In a Democratic rebuttal moments later, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, joined by Senator Chuck Schumer, said that Mr. Trump “must stop holding the American people hostage, must stop manufacturing a crisis and must reopen the government.” On the ground: Americans living near the border show little enthusiasm for a wall. Looking ahead: Mr. Trump will travel to the Texas border on Thursday. But privately, he has dismissed his own new strategy of persuading the American people as pointless, and the shutdown is set to drag on. For many federal workers, that means no paychecks. So far, polls show Mr. Trump taking most of the blame for the shutdown, and Senate Republicans are increasingly anxious. Video: Watch his address and Democrats’ response. (And here are the full transcripts.)Paul Manafort shared Trump campaign polling data with an associate tied to Russian intelligence during the 2016 presidential campaign, according to prosecutors for the special counsel, Robert Mueller. That was inadvertently made public in court filings by Mr. Manafort’s lawyers, who did not directly dispute that the sharing happened but said their client had not intended to mislead Mr. Mueller about it, blaming a memory lapse. They also revealed that Mr. Manafort “may have discussed a Ukraine peace plan” with the Russian associate “on more than one occasion.”What’s next: His lawyers said Mr. Manafort would not pursue a formal challenge to prosecutors’ assertions that he lied in breach of a cooperation agreement, a decision that brings him one step closer to being sentenced for 10 felonies.Also: Natalia Veselnitskaya, the Russian lawyer who met with President Trump’s campaign team at Trump Tower in 2016, was charged in New York in a separate case that showed her deep ties to the Kremlin.Ahead of a momentous debate in the British Parliament over Prime Minister Theresa May’s unpopular plan for leaving the E.U., her government has been preparing for a possible “no deal” withdrawal.But it has offered contradictory messages: that such an exit would be a calamity for Britain, and that it would not be, because the government is prepared.Details: As part of its preparations, in the past week the government has awarded a $17.5 million ferry service contract to a company with no ferries, as well as conducting an exercise — dismissed by truck drivers who took part as “window dressing” — to test whether Britain could handle a no-deal scenario’s expected snarls for cross-channel trade. Another angle: Backing farmers’ fears, the environment minister warned of huge tariffs and resulting devastation for British agriculture in a no-deal exit.In December, the nationalist, anti-immigrant Vox party of Spain won parliamentary seats for the first time. Big picture: Vox remains a small player. It wants to replace border fences around Ceuta and Melilla, two Spanish enclaves in North Africa, with walls, and reclaim Gibraltar from Britain. It has consulted with President Trump’s former campaign manager Stephen Bannon, who is trying to build an international far-right movement. And its popularity has grown with a backlash against Catalan separatism, which is rekindling Spanish nationalism long after the Franco era. Looking ahead: Some analysts say the party’s appeal could spread beyond its stronghold in the southern region of Andalusia, and it will be an important wild card in E.U. parliamentary elections in May.In Germany: A lawmaker from the far-right Alternative for Germany party suffered serious injuries when he was attacked by three men, the police said.Turkey: President Recep Tayyip Erdogan refused to meet with John Bolton, the White House national security adviser, after Mr. Bolton said Turkey must agree to protect Syria’s Kurds — making an agreement between the two countries ahead of an announced U.S. withdrawal from Syria more difficult.Emissions: U.S. carbon dioxide output rose by 3.4 percent in 2018, the biggest increase in eight years, according to a preliminary estimate. The uptick came even as a near-record number of coal plants across the country closed last year.Bosnia: A grieving father dissatisfied with the official explanations for his son’s death started a one-man protest movement in Bosnia that has grown into the country’s largest antigovernment demonstration in decades, posing a challenge to Milorad Dodik, the longtime leader of Bosnia’s Serb autonomous zone. China: In an effort to placate President Trump and end a trade war with the U.S., China has offered real concessions — alongside nebulous promises that may not be enough. Iran: The E.U. penalized the country over allegations that its intelligence service orchestrated a series of assassination plots in Europe in recent years, including the killing of two Iranians in the Netherlands. Diplomacy: The Trump administration downgraded the diplomatic status of the E.U. delegation to the U.S. last year without telling the bloc, a European official said on Tuesday. The reclassification is understood to have been reversed, at least temporarily. Germany: The government revealed that a 20-year-old student was responsible for hacking into the online accounts of hundreds of lawmakers and personalities whose political stances he disliked, cracking passwords as weak as “1234.”Fatberg: A 210-foot mass of oils, fats and wet wipes — longer than the Tower of Pisa is tall — has been discovered under a sleepy coastal town in Britain.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Smoky bacon, red cabbage and a bit of cream make for a delicious pasta dinner.A simple way to remember things? Draw a picture.Five carry-on essentials for travelers who love to pack light.How does The Times decide when to publish leaked information?First of all, sharing government secrets is generally legal.One exception, per the Espionage Act, is information related to national defense that could be used to harm the U.S. And some things, like nuclear secrets, are separately protected.The Supreme Court has upheld the news media’s right to publish government secrets, citing the First Amendment. The landmark 1971 Pentagon Papers ruling struck down an attempt by the Nixon administration to keep The Times from publishing classified information about the Vietnam War.Still, the Washington correspondent Charlie Savage notes in our Understanding The Times series, we don’t always exercise that right. Sometimes officials ask us to “consider voluntarily not publishing.”Because “suppressing information is not something The Times takes lightly,” Mr. Savage explains, those decisions are handled by our most senior editorial leadership.“It is extremely rare,” he adds, “for The Times to hold or kill such a story.”Jennifer Krauss, from Times Insider, helped with today’s Back Story.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.

Supported byBy Ashley Calloway-Blatch and Lance BoothHere are the week’s top stories, and a look ahead.1. The partial government shutdown is over — for now.President Trump signed a bill on Friday reopening the federal government for three weeks, but he said he was ready to renew the confrontation or to bypass Congress altogether if Republicans and Democrats didn’t agree on funds for a wall at the southern border by Feb. 15.The bill opened the way to paying the 800,000 federal workers who had been furloughed or had been working without pay. We talked with more than a dozen federal workers and contractors about how they survived the 35-day shutdown, and of the uncertainty they now face.According to Standard &amp; Poor’s, the U.S. economy lost at least $6 billion during the shutdown — more than the $5.7 billion Mr. Trump was holding out for.Have you been keeping up with the headlines? Test your knowledge with our news quiz. And here’s the front page of our Sunday paper, the Sunday Review from Opinion and our crossword puzzles.____2. Roger Stone, a former political adviser to President Trump, was indicted in the special counsel’s investigation after F.B.I. agents wearing ballistic vests and brandishing guns arrested him in a predawn raid of his home in Fort Lauderdale, Fla.The indictment states that a top Trump campaign official dispatched Mr. Stone, above, to get information from WikiLeaks about hacked Democratic emails, revealing the most direct link yet between parallel efforts by the Trump campaign and WikiLeaks to damage Hillary Clinton during the 2016 election using material stolen by Russians.Mr. Stone was charged with seven counts, including obstruction, making false statements and witness tampering.We mapped out the known interactions that Mr. Trump and at least 17 campaign officials and advisers had with Russian citizens and WikiLeaks, or their intermediaries, during the 2016 presidential campaign and transition.Some Republicans are recalculating Mr. Trump’s political prospects, given the deep damage he suffered from the shutdown and the possibility that the Russia investigation will grow only more painful for him.____3. Juan Guaidó, Venezuela’s opposition leader, attended a rally Friday, above, in his first public appearance since he declared himself interim president of the country. He told supporters to maintain pressure on the authorities “if they dare to kidnap me.”At the same time, President Nicolás Maduro, who had been furiously describing Mr. Guaidó as the lackey of an American-backed coup plot, appeared to strike a more conciliatory approach. On Saturday, Mr. Maduro backed down from demanding that American diplomats leave the country this weekend.Opposition lawmakers and analysts said Mr. Maduro may sense that loyalty to him among the security forces may be slipping as support grows for Mr. Guaidó, who earned the official recognition of the United States and more than 20 other countries.Our interviews with current and former military officers reveal a complicated struggle within the ranks over which leader to back.____4. The authorities in Florida  released the identities on Thursday of three of the five women who were killed by a gunman at a SunTrust Bank in Sebring, above, the day before.The authorities said the gunman made the women lie face down on the floor before he shot them in the back of the head, and then called the police to admit what he had done.The suspect, Zephen A. Xaver, 21, was arrested on Wednesday and charged with five counts of first-degree premeditated murder. The police said they didn’t understand Mr. Xaver’s motive; the Sebring police chief said Mr. Xaver didn’t know the victims and had no known connection to the SunTrust branch.Relatives of the two other victims asked that their names be withheld from the public, the police chief said, adding that he would honor those requests under the terms of a new crime victims’ law in Florida.____5. Record numbers of Americans understand that climate change is real and say the issue is personally important to them. Above, search teams after the Camp Fire in Paradise, Calif., last year.In a survey taken late last year, some 73 percent said global warming was happening — a jump of 10 percentage points from 2015 and three points since March. “I’ve never seen jumps in some of the key indicators like this,” one of the researchers said.Conclusive data has been accumulating, including recent studies showing unexpectedly rapid melting in Greenland and the Arctic, and far quicker ocean warming than previously understood.____6. Action at the Supreme Court. The justices voted 5 to 4 on Tuesday to allow the Trump administration to bar most transgender people from serving in the military while cases challenging the policy make their way to the court. Above, Jody Davis, a transgender woman who is trying to rejoin the National Guard.The court also said on Tuesday that it would review a New York City gun law, its first Second Amendment case in nearly a decade.The justices took no action on the Trump administration’s plans to shut down a program that shields some 700,000 young undocumented immigrants from deportation, which almost certainly means the court won’t hear the administration’s challenge in its current term.____7. Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, above, plans to integrate the social network’s vast messaging services: WhatsApp, Instagram and Facebook Messenger.The services will continue to operate as stand-alone apps, but their underlying technical infrastructure will be unified, according to four people involved in the effort.This could redefine how more than 2.6 billion people use the apps to connect with one another, our technology reporter notes, all while strengthening Facebook’s grip on users and raising antitrust, privacy and security questions.____8. In the world of entertainment: James McAvoy hosted “Saturday Night Live” this week, which featured Steve Martin in a pinstriped suit as Roger Stone.Now that the dust has settled from Tuesday’s announcement of Oscar nominees, our columnist examines what we can glean from who made it in and who didn’t.And our critic-at-large Wesley Morris talks about the academy’s obsession with racial reconciliation fantasies, from 1989’s “Driving Miss Daisy” to the recent “Green Book” and “The Upside.”____9. Novak Djokovic defeated Rafael Nadal for his seventh Australian Open championship this morning. It was the latest triumph in a thrilling career revival.And Naomi Osaka, above, bested Petra Kvitova in a riveting women’s final on Saturday.Her victory in Melbourne, after winning the U.S. Open in September, made Ms. Osaka the first woman since Jennifer Capriati in 2001 to win her first two major titles back to back.More into football? The week is going to be a big buildup to Super Bowl LIII, when the New England Patriots and the Los Angeles Rams face off.____10. Finally, don’t miss our Best Weekend Reads.This week, we talk to a laundry specialist who has washed clothes on tour for the likes of Madonna, U2 and Beyoncé; look at how the growing noise in the world’s oceans is threatening wildlife; and examine a culture of discrimination and retaliation at a highly classified Energy Department site in Nevada.We also have the tale of Kenneth Griffin, a hedge-fund billionaire who just paid a record $238 million for a penthouse he may rarely live in.For more suggestions on what to read, watch and listen to, may we suggest these nine new books our editors liked, a glance at the latest small-screen recommendations from Watching, and our music critics’ latest playlist.Have a great week.Your Weekend Briefing is published Sundays at 6 a.m. Eastern.You can sign up here to get our Morning Briefings by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning, or here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.



      By KAREN YOURISH and 
    
LARRY BUCHANAN

UPDATED APRIL 19, 2019

Donald J. Trump and 18 of his associates had at least 140 contacts with Russian nationals and WikiLeaks, or their intermediaries, during the 2016 campaign and presidential transition, according to a New York Times analysis.The report of Robert S. Mueller III, released to the public on Thursday, revealed at least 30 more contacts beyond those previously known. However, the special counsel said, “the evidence was not sufficient to support criminal charges.”Very few, if any, of these interactions were publicly known before Mr. Trump took office.KeyHadcontactWas told about contactRevealed in Mueller reportDenied contactCharged by MuellerKeyHad contactDenied contactWas told about contactCharged by MuellerRevealed in Mueller reportIn addition to Mr. Mueller’s report, knowledge of these interactions is based on Times reporting, documents submitted to Congress and court records. Among the contacts are in-person meetings, phone calls, text messages, emails and private messages on social media platforms.Invited to Moscow to attend party for Aras Agalarov and possibly meet Putin.Received letter from Agalarov expressing “great interest” in campaign.Tweeted: “I HAVE NOTHING TO DO WITH RUSSIA.”Signed letter of intent to develop Trump Tower in Moscow.Invited to Moscow to attend party for Aras Agalarov and possibly meet Putin.Signed letter of intent to develop a Trump Tower in Moscow.Received letter from Agalarov expressing “great interest” in campaign.Tweeted: “I HAVE NOTHING TO DO WITH RUSSIA.”Aras Agalarov, a Russian billionaire who hosted a Miss Universe pageant with Mr. Trump in Moscow, and the billionaire’s son, Emin, reached out to Mr. Trump several times. (Separately, both men helped arrange the June 2016 Trump Tower meeting with a Kremlin-linked lawyer about getting information that could be damaging to Hillary Clinton.﻿)Mr. Trump was also pursuing a plan to build a Trump Tower in Moscow and was repeatedly invited to an economic forum in St. Petersburg, Russia, that would be attended by President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and other Russian government and business officials.Continuing discussions about Trump Tower project in Moscow.Had contacts with Kremlin about project.Discussed possibility of Trump and Cohen traveling to Russia.Met with Russian oligarch.A Russian offered to introduce Trump to Putin and help with the Trump Tower project.Continuing discussions about Trump Tower project in Moscow.A Russian offered to introduce Trump to Putin and help with the Trump Tower project.Had contacts with Kremlin about project.Discussed possibility of Trump and Cohen traveling to Russia.Met with Russian oligarch.Mr. Cohen, Mr. Trump’s lawyer at the time, had repeated contacts with Russians about a plan to build a Trump Tower in Moscow. In 2018, Mr. Cohen admitted lying to Congress about the duration of these discussions and Mr. Trump’s involvement in them.Contacted by a Russian social media executive about setting up a campaign page.Arranged and attended Trump Tower Russia meeting.Called it “disgusting” for Democrats to suggest Russia was helping Trump. Exchanged direct messages with WikiLeaks. Contacted by a Russian social media executive about setting up a campaign page.Arranged and attended Trump Tower Russia meeting.Called it “disgusting” for Democrats to suggest Russia was helping Trump. Exchanged direct messages with WikiLeaks.Contacted by a Russian social media executive.Mr. Trump Jr. arranged the now-famous meeting at Trump Tower with Russians after being promised “dirt” on Hillary Clinton. He also exchanged private messages with WikiLeaks, which disseminated stolen Clinton campaign emails, and was aware of negotiations during the 2016 presidential campaign to develop a Trump Tower in Moscow.Told that the Russians had “dirt” on Clinton.Had contact with a Russian who said his Foreign Ministry colleagues were “open for cooperation.”Met with London-based professor who claimed to have ties to Russian government.Met with London-based professor who claimed to have ties to Russian government.Told that the Russians had “dirt” on Clinton.Had contact with a Russian who said his Foreign Ministry colleagues were “open for cooperation.”Mr. Papadopoulos, a campaign adviser, had frequent contacts with Russian operatives who said they wanted to arrange meetings between Mr. Trump and Mr. Putin. He frequently told campaign officials about these conversations.Period of time Manafort was on Trump campaignAttended Trump Tower meeting.Said charges of ties between campaign and Russia were “absurd.”Met with Kilimnik to discuss a pro-Russian plan for Ukraine.Offered Konstantin V. Kilimnik polling data.Offered to give private briefings to a Russian oligarch.Period of time Manafort was on Trump campaignOffered Konstantin V. Kilimnik polling data.Attended Trump Tower meeting.Said charges of ties between campaign and Russia were “absurd.”Offered to give private briefings to a Russian oligarch.Met with Kilimnik to discuss a pro-Russian plan for Ukraine.Mr. Manafort had multiple contacts with a business associate, Konstantin V. Kilimnik, believed to have ties to Russian intelligence. He had political polling data shared with Mr. Kilimnik and told him he could offer private campaign briefings to a Russian oligarch. He also attended the June 2016 Trump Tower meeting.Met with Kislyak at Trump Tower.Multiple contacts with Kislyak about Russian sanctions.Met with Kislyak at Trump Tower.Multiple contacts with Kislyak about Russian sanctions.During the transition, Mr. Flynn had several conversations with Sergey I. Kislyak, the Russian ambassador to the United States at the time, about Russian sanctions and about blocking an impending United Nations vote criticizing Israeli settlements.Was forwarded a proposal for a back-channel meeting with Russians, which he rebuffed.Attended Trump Tower Russia meeting.Met with Russian ambassador and the head of a Russian bank.Introduced to Russian ambassador.Introduced to Russian ambassador.Forwarded proposal for back-channel meeting with Russians, which he rebuffed.Attended Trump Tower Russia meeting.Met with Russian ambassador and the head of a Russian bank.Mr. Kushner met at Trump Tower with the Russian ambassador and discussed setting up a way to communicate with Moscow during the presidential transition. He also met with a Russian banker with close ties to Mr. Putin in an attempt to establish a direct line of communication to the Russian president.Ongoing discussions with Trump campaign about WikiLeaks.Messaged with Guccifer 2.0.Received WikiLeaks message.Met with a Russian who offered dirt on Hillary Clinton in exchange for money.Asked WikiLeaks intermediary for Clinton emails.Ongoing discussions with Trump campaign about WikiLeaks.Met with a Russian who offered dirt on Hillary Clinton in exchange for money.Messaged with Guccifer 2.0.Asked WikiLeaks intermediary for Clinton emails.Received WikiLeaks message.Mr. Stone convinced the campaign that he could be a conduit of inside information from WikiLeaks. In an indictment unsealed on Jan. 25, the special counsel disclosed evidence that a top campaign official dispatched Mr. Stone to get information from WikiLeaks about the thousands of hacked Democratic emails.

Supported byA show at the New Museum celebrates the completion of Rhizome’s Net Art Anthology, a two-year project to preserve and archive digital artworks that were in danger of disappearing.By Sophie HaigneyFor many people, the term “net art” might conjure specific associations from a certain era — the ’90s, hackers, Berlin, Web 1.0.These things are part of the story of digital-born art, but only part of it. Net art was never a specific scene: It was born before the internet existed and continues to be created today, worldwide, in disparate media.A project called Net Art Anthology, curated by Rhizome, an affiliate of the New Museum, was an attempt to tentatively create a historical understanding of net art. Unveiled online over the course of two years, the effort involved the archiving and restoration of 100 digital artworks — often a laborious process because browsers that could display the pieces no longer existed, or other aspects of the technology had to be preserved or emulated.“It was intended really as a way of filling in major gaps in public understanding of and access to net art’s past, to make it more of a resource for the present for artists and people interested in internet culture and how we got here,” said Michael Connor, artistic director of Rhizome.On Tuesday, a show called “The Art Happens Here: Net Art’s Archival Poetics,” curated by Mr. Connor and Aria Dean, opened at the New Museum to commemorate the completion of the anthology. Sixteen works will be on display, and many of them deal with ephemerality, loss and change — but also with the joy and weirdness of the web. We spoke to five of the artists about their creations.It’s easy to forget that before the internet, there were other networks. One of the more advanced was videotex, an information system invented in the 1970s that relied on a television or terminal — you could communicate, read the news, publish content or look up telephone numbers. In France, the government distributed more than a million such terminals, called Minitel, to citizens.After a version called Videotexto was implemented in Brazil in 1982, mostly in public spaces like libraries and airports, the performance and multimedia artist Eduardo Kac became interested in the technology. Mr. Kac said he had an epiphany of sorts: Physical artworks could exist in a whole new sphere. “We were no longer preoccupied with dematerialization,” he said. “We could now produce immaterial work directly.” In 1985, Mr. Kac made the work “Reabracadabra,” a digital poem created for Videotexto that he described as a “personal, formal attempt at holographic work.” This piece will be on display in the New Museum show on a terminal, after Mr. Kac painstakingly restored and recreated his videotex pieces over the course of 15 years.“This network no longer exists, just like the internet we have now will one day no longer exist,” Mr. Kac said. “There’s a general misperception when we talk about online culture. Everyone is so obsessed with the internet, but to me it’s a historical phenomenon. It will be superseded by other networks in the future.”“A lot of my work is about looking back,” said Olia Lialina, who is best known for her 1996 piece “My Boyfriend Came Back From the War.” Part of Net Art Anthology, that interactive browser-based work tells the story of a woman’s awkward reunion with a soldier.Her work in the New Museum show is drawn from a different project. Ms. Lialina and her partner, Dragan Espenschied, created a research blog in early 2011 and a Tumblr account in 2013 called “One Terabyte of Kilobyte Age” to preserve and explore the archives of GeoCities, an early web hosting service. Yahoo! bought GeoCities in 1999 and shut it down in 2009, leading to the disappearance of much of its data — except for one terabyte preserved by volunteer archivists.Ms. Lialina and Mr. Espenschied are interested in the early web aesthetic as a form of folk art — the much-mocked and also beloved Web 1.0 design, with its rainbows, glitter, neon clip art and random text placement. Their Tumblr automatically generates screenshots of old sites from the GeoCities archive. “It’s an attempt to preserve this moment of these very special web pages, made by people who had such hope and excitement about the web,” Ms. Lialina said.In the museum, two slide shows will play next to each other, one featuring screenshots of pages promising updates, and the other displaying announcements from sites that were shutting down.The preservation and cataloging of net art was difficult, even at the time when it was first made. Brian Mackern turned that process into its own art form with his “netart latino database,” created in 2000 and updated until 2005.“It was a bit of a response or a statement because at that time there were a lot of stories and narratives about the history of net art going on, and Latin America was kept a bit aside,” Mr. Mackern, a Uruguayan artist, said. He compiled hundreds of links to these projects, and created a site map for them based on Joaquín Torres García’s 1943 drawing “América Invertida,” which orients the south toward the north.Many of the links are now dead, though Mr. Mackern said he sees this as a piece of the project.“It has a romantic thing, no?” Mr. Mackern said. “These are like footprints of something that happened, like a kind of fossil. You have this thing that proved that something happened, but you cannot grab it or experience it again.”In “The Art Happens Here,” the database will become a physical object, with the links printed slowly and repeatedly for New Museum visitors to take home.The Taiwanese artist Shu Lea Cheang combined net art with performance in “Garlic=Rich Air,” which imagined a postcapitalist society in the year 2030, when currency would be replaced by garlic. It was inspired by economic crashes that happened around 2000, including one in Argentina, where alternative economies emerged when the currency was devalued.“When that happens, you invent your own currency locally,” Ms. Cheang said, adding, “Why not use garlic?” With friends of hers who were farmers, Ms. Cheang grew and harvested bulbs in upstate New York; online, a game allowed users to exchange digital goods for garlic.Ms. Cheang and others drove a pickup truck around New York City in 2002, asking people what they would trade for garlic. (One woman offered several strands of her hair.) The truck also provided mobile Wi-Fi — a kind of digitized farm stand that operated outside traditional systems of exchange.“Rather than treating this project archaeologically, we wanted to revitalize and reperform it,” Mr. Connor, Rhizome’s artistic director, said. For the New Museum show, the artist Melanie Hoff has created a new online game inspired by Ms. Cheang’s garlic-trading universe, and a tricycle in the museum lobby will pay homage to the truck. The storefront in Queens was mysterious. For six months, Sister Unn’s stood on Austin Street in Forest Hills, backlit only by a refrigerator and filled with vases of wilted roses. In the center was a lavender-colored rose preserved in ice. But you couldn’t enter the store — it was like a mausoleum, or something frozen in time.This was the physical aspect of a project by Bunny Rogers and Filip Olszewski, who lived in Forest Hills and were struck by an abandoned flower shop. “It looked like it had been packed up overnight,” Ms. Rogers said. That, coupled with their reading of a classic Norwegian novel — Tarjei Vesaas’s “The Ice Palace,” whose main characters are named Siss and Unn — inspired this strange memorial.The artists also made a website where each visitor can add a pixelated icon of a rose to an online gallery. Outside the storefront, neighborhood residents began dropping off flowers, candles and other gifts.“That was when it felt like maybe we had actually produced something that was successful, in being a place of memorial or to reflect on personal loss, or to be a quiet space of mourning within the street,” Ms. Rogers said. A version of the storefront will be recreated inside the New Museum — a brief resurrection of an open-ended memorial that lives on, online.The Art Happens Here: Net Art’s Archival PoeticsThrough May 26 at the New Museum, 235 Bowery, Manhattan; 212-219-1222, newmuseum.org.

Supported byBy Adam Satariano and Raymond ZhongLONDON — When new employees join Huawei, they are given books about the Chinese telecommunications company’s achievements. One featured accomplishment is how the company has thrived in Europe.A chapter in one of the books describes the hard work of Huawei employees to win over European telecom providers and sell them equipment that forms the backbone of mobile wireless networks. It says little about how the company has also subtly lobbied, promised jobs and made research investments to ingratiate itself with European governments over the last 15 years.In Britain, for example, Huawei set up a special corporate board, led by John Browne, a former chief executive of the oil giant BP. It donated to schools, including Cambridge University; held parties for political leaders; and sponsored prominent charities like the Prince’s Trust, founded by Prince Charles. In Germany, Huawei opened facilities to conduct research on new innovations and sponsored events, including the recent convention of Germany’s governing Christian Democratic Union party.European governments have been welcoming. Last year, after Huawei announced a five-year commitment to spend 3 billion pounds, or about $3.8 billion, to expand in Britain, where the company employs 1,500 workers, Prime Minister Theresa May met in Beijing with Sun Yafang, Huawei’s chairwoman. Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany posed for pictures at the company’s booth at a trade show last year.Yet despite the careful cultivation, Huawei’s position in Europe is now at risk of unraveling. The United States has moved to restrict the use of Chinese technology because of concerns that it is being used for espionage. Last month, the American authorities asked Canada to detain a Huawei executive, who is the daughter of the company’s founder, on charges of committing bank fraud to help the company’s business in Iran. And federal prosecutors in Seattle are also investigating Huawei for intellectual property theft.[Read More: The United States plans to formally make its extradition request within a week.]The fallout is growing across Europe, which has become Huawei’s biggest market outside China, foreshadowing what the company faces in the rest of the world. This month, one of its employees was arrested in Poland and charged with espionage.Officials in Germany, France and the Czech Republic are now among those considering restricting Huawei from the next-generation wireless networks, known as 5G. The head of Britain’s intelligence service, MI6, has raised alarms about using Chinese networking technology. European carriers, including Deutsche Telekom, are reassessing their use of Huawei. And on Thursday, Oxford University announced that it would suspend donations and scholarships from Huawei.“Until there were red flags on security risks, it was smooth sailing for them in Europe,” Thorsten Benner, a founder and director of the Global Public Policy Institute, a policy think tank in Berlin, said of Huawei. “The movement that you’ve seen over the past three months is all in one direction: to find regulatory measures to curtail the use of Chinese equipment in Europe.”Heli Tiirmaa-Klaar, an Estonian diplomat involved in cybersecurity discussions with American and European officials about Huawei, said Europe was shifting on Huawei because of suspicions about China rather than specific actions by the company. She highlighted China’s history of hacking and stealing trade secrets, its poor record on human rights and internet censorship, and Chinese cybersecurity rules that could require network operators to defend national security interests.“The Chinese are increasingly departing from the common vision that we’ve had at the U.N. level about what are cybernorms and how we follow international law in cyberspace,” she said. “They have no willingness to play along in this space.”Huawei (pronounced “HWA-way”) has steadfastly denied wrongdoing. In a statement, the company said it had “established strong relations with customers, suppliers and governments across Europe, where cybersecurity has been our top priority.” It added that its growth in Europe was the result of its strong track record, not lobbying. Interacting with government officials is common among large corporations, Huawei said.For European countries, disentangling from Huawei won’t be easy. Its equipment is a crucial part of wireless infrastructure in Europe, and the company has spent hundreds of millions of dollars on 5G research, opening testing hubs in Britain, Germany and Poland. The company has said countries that ban Huawei, like the United States, risk delaying construction of the new hyperfast network.Huawei, based in Shenzhen, China, entered Europe in 2001 but struggled to gain a foothold. It kept pushing because it wanted to expand internationally. The European market became even more important after the company was mostly shut out of the United States in 2012 over security concerns.At one point in 2004, Huawei was so eager to woo European customers that it outfitted a shipping container with its wireless equipment and parked it in front of the headquarters of phone carriers in Germany. The marketing stunt was intended to get employees of those carriers to stop and look.“A lot of them said, ‘Who are you?’” said Stefan Scheuerle, a former Huawei sales manager in Europe who is now chief revenue officer at Sensorberg, a German tech company.In a breakthrough, Huawei struck a deal to provide equipment to BT Group, the British telecom giant, in 2005. To prepare its bid for the BT project, Huawei moved about 100 Chinese workers to hastily rented apartments outside London, according to “Growing Up in a Hail of Gunfire,” a collection of essays used as training material for new hires. The employees often worked until 3 or 4 a.m., and because they didn’t have credit cards, they had to use wads of cash to buy groceries.In 2005, Huawei also secured a deal with the European carrier Vodafone to sell about $1 million of gear. Even so, Mr. Scheuerle said, he was quickly given a new goal: Sell Vodafone $1 billion of equipment within three years. Huawei soon opened an office within steps of Vodafone’s complex in Düsseldorf, Germany.“When I left less than three years later, we were at $850 million — we were almost there,” Mr. Scheuerle said.Huawei moved other employees from China to help in Europe, and hired many non-Chinese employees. It was a jarring cultural change for newcomers unfamiliar with Huawei’s blunt management style; Mr. Scheuerle said staff emails criticized people by name for unsatisfactory work.Mr. Scheuerle held workshops for new employees to help them adapt to the company. He advised them to befriend Chinese colleagues with better knowledge of what was happening at Huawei headquarters in Shenzhen.Today, 12,000 of Huawei’s 180,000 employees are in Europe, up from 7,300 in 2013. The company has vowed to hire nearly 3,000 more by next year. In 2017, it earned more than $20 billion in revenue in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, roughly a quarter of its total business.Even when American officials warned allies of Huawei’s risks, the company largely deflected the concerns. It opened a testing center where British officials inspected its products. It opened 23 research and development facilities in 14 European countries, and supported work at more than 150 universities. The company also hosts government officials and business leaders from Europe at its Shenzhen headquarters.In 2011, Huawei created the board to oversee operations in Britain. In reality, the group has a limited view of Huawei’s inner workings and few responsibilities beyond quarterly meetings and attending some corporate events such as annual summer and winter parties, two people familiar with its activities said.Huawei said the board had legal responsibilities of directors overseeing compliance with laws, health and safety, and potential abuses of power.Now, as criticism mounts, Huawei is meeting with customers and government officials to assuage concerns. This includes allowing German officials to inspect its engineering and code.Next month at the mobile tech conference MWC Barcelona, formerly the Mobile World Congress, Huawei plans to announce new handsets and provide an update of its 5G plans. A new advertising campaign is also in the works, the company said.Follow Adam Satariano and Raymond Zhong on Twitter: @satariano and @zhonggg.Adam Satariano reported from London, and Raymond Zhong from Hong Kong.U.S. Seeks ExtraditionCanada’s arrest of Meng Wanzhou of Huawei has set off a diplomatic crisis with China. Page B4.

Supported byBy Michael S. Schmidt and Charlie SavageWASHINGTON — The swirl of speculation surrounding the Russia investigation often assumes that the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, will release a report of his findings that will serve as the definitive explanation of how Russia interfered in the 2016 election and whether President Trump or his associates coordinated with Moscow.But there is no such guarantee. The law does not require the Justice Department to release a report, and Mr. Mueller has been silent on the issue. Mr. Trump’s nominee for attorney general, William P. Barr, said at his confirmation hearing on Tuesday that he wanted to release as much of what Mr. Mueller found as possible. But he said he needed to learn more about the report and the regulations that govern his releasing information from it before deciding what to do about disclosing the findings.That answer did not satisfy leading Senate Democrats, who said on Wednesday that they would oppose Mr. Barr’s nomination unless he agreed to release the entire report Mr. Mueller produces, except for redactions of sensitive national security information.Because the government has issued plenty of big reports after important investigations into national catastrophes and scandals. Commissions that investigated the Sept. 11 attacks and the failure to find weapons of mass destruction after the invasion of Iraq, for example, produced book-length public reports that became part of the historical record.Similarly, Ken Starr, the independent counsel who investigated President Bill Clinton over the Whitewater and Monica Lewinsky scandals, gave Congress a long report that lawmakers voted to make public. It provided a detailed narrative description of the evidence, including lurid sexual details, and extensive legal analysis of potential crimes by the president.That does not always happen. Nearly a half-century ago, the special counsel investigating President Richard M. Nixon over the Watergate scandal, Leon Jaworski, had a grand jury send to Congress a terse report containing spare factual statements with citations of evidence and no legal analysis. This report, known as the “Road Map,” was kept secret until last year.But Mr. Mueller is working under a different set of rules than any of those investigators.In 1999, partly in reaction to perceptions that Mr. Starr had overreached, Congress let the independent counsel law expire. The Justice Department wrote new regulations allowing for special counsels who can investigate high-level executive-branch wrongdoing with some day-to-day independence but ultimately under the supervision of the attorney general.The officials who wrote the regulations sought to prevent the sort of “extravagant” steps Mr. Starr had taken in writing his report, according to Neal Katyal, a former Justice Department official who drafted the rules.“There is no doubt that when you are writing regs like that in the midst of a really public thing like the Starr Report, it’s going to influence your thinking, and definitely it did,” he said. “There were concerns about the privacy violations that occurred in the Starr Report.”The regulation instructs Mr. Mueller to give the attorney general “a confidential report” when he has finished his investigation explaining his decisions about whom to prosecute and whom not to charge. The attorney general, in turn, must send a report to Congress explaining why the work has concluded. The attorney general is also free to decide that issuing that report would be in the public interest, as long as it is released lawfully.The Justice Department’s explanation of the special counsel regulations, filed in the Federal Register in 1999, criticized the old independent counsel law’s system where prosecutors filed reports directly to Congress that typically were made public, as in the Starr investigation.Instead, officials called for special counsels to write confidential summaries to the attorney general about their charging decisions and for the attorney general’s report to Congress to be a “brief notification” that the investigation was closed and why.To be sure, Mr. Mueller has already disclosed significant investigative findings by writing and unsealing lengthy narrative indictments, especially of Russians involved in the operations to manipulate American social media and hack Democratic emails. But that method has limited value for understanding the actions of people he does not indict.If Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, finds evidence that Mr. Trump broke the law, he will have decisions to make about how to proceed. We explain them.He has said he is still trying to figure it out.While Mr. Barr repeatedly emphasized that he wants to make public as much information as he can about the special counsel investigation, he stopped short of making commitments — emphasizing that certain rules might hamstring him and that he had not yet been briefed on Mr. Mueller’s investigation. He also said he wanted to speak to Mr. Mueller and Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general who appointed the special counsel, to see what they were already thinking.“I don’t know what, at the end of the day, what will be releasable,” he said at his confirmation hearing. “I don’t know what Bob Mueller is writing.”Mr. Barr left open possibilities including drafting his own summary of the findings, should he be confirmed as attorney general, as expected.“There are different reports at work here,” Mr. Barr said. “Under the current regulations, the special counsel report is confidential, and the report that goes public would be a report by the attorney general.”That answer failed to placate Democrats and left confusion about his ultimate intentions. On Wednesday, one of the witnesses at his hearing, Neil Kinkopf, a Georgia State University law professor and former Justice Department official in the Obama and Clinton administrations, flagged the ambiguity with concern, saying Mr. Barr seemed to be interpreting the regulation to mean that the attorney general should release his own report, not turn over Mr. Mueller’s.Whether Mr. Barr ends up relaying a redacted version of Mr. Mueller’s report or instead writes his own, he most likely will have to keep grand jury testimony secret.He also may withhold classified information that could reveal intelligence sources and methods still being used to spy on the Russian government, like any moles or wiretaps.Mr. Barr also noted that the Justice Department typically keeps confidential so-called declination memos where prosecutors explain what they uncovered about anyone they decide not to prosecute.On Wednesday, Mr. Kinkopf noted that the Justice Department had taken the position that sitting presidents could not be indicted while in office. If Mr. Barr strictly enforces the view that department policy forbids putting out negative information about people whom prosecutors declined to charge, he said, that would prevent Justice Department officials from releasing information about Mr. Trump’s actions.Mr. Katyal said there was one way around that. The special counsel regulation requires Mr. Barr to tell Congress about any instance in which he overruled a step Mr. Mueller proposed, so if Mr. Mueller were to suggest indicting Mr. Trump, the attorney general report would have to discuss that.For one thing, information could leak to the news media. If any Mueller report is leaked, that would most likely cause a firestorm, especially if it contained unredacted classified information and evidence subject to grand-jury secrecy rules.The House Judiciary Committee, now controlled by Democrats, could also seek to subpoena the report. If Mr. Trump asserts executive privilege to avoid turning it over, the House could ask a judge to order it handed over.House Democrats could similarly seek to subpoena Mr. Mueller to testify about his findings. Mr. Trump could also seek to gag Mr. Mueller by invoking executive privilege, although it is not clear that he would succeed.The president’s personal lawyer Rudolph W. Giuliani has suggested that in addition to potentially invoking executive privilege, the White House may seek to edit a report that will go to Congress “so we can correct it if they’re wrong.”Mr. Barr said on Tuesday that he would not allow such a move: “That will not happen.”

Supported byBy Nicholas Fandos and Michael S. SchmidtWASHINGTON — President Trump on Saturday unleashed an extended assault on the F.B.I. and the special counsel’s investigation, knitting together a comprehensive alternative story in which he had been framed by disgraced “losers” at the bureau’s highest levels.In a two-hour span starting at 7 a.m., the president made a series of false claims on Twitter about his adversaries and the events surrounding the inquiry. He was responding to a report in The New York Times that, after he fired James B. Comey as F.B.I. director in 2017, the bureau began investigating whether the president had acted on behalf of Russia.In his tweets, the president accused Hillary Clinton, without evidence, of breaking the law by lying to the F.B.I. He claimed that Mr. Comey was corrupt and best friends with the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III. He said Mr. Mueller was employing a team of Democrats — another misleading assertion — bent on taking him down.Individually, the president’s claims were familiar. But as the special counsel’s inquiry edges ever closer to him, Democrats vow a blizzard of investigations of their own and the government shutdown reaches record lengths, Mr. Trump compiled all the threads of the conspiracy theory he has pushed for many months in an effort to discredit the investigation.Hours later, Mr. Trump continued his broadside on a friendly television venue, Jeanine Pirro’s show on Fox News. Asked “are you now or have you ever worked for Russia, Mr. President?” Mr. Trump did not directly answer the question.“I think it’s the most insulting thing I’ve ever been asked,” he said by telephone. “I think it’s the most insulting article I’ve ever had written.”He also denied a report in The Washington Post that he had taken extensive steps to conceal from other high-ranking officials his conversations with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia over the past two years.Representative Eliot L. Engel, Democrat of New York and the chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, said that his panel would hold hearings on “the mysteries swirling around Trump’s bizarre relationship with Putin and his cronies, and how those dark dealings affect our national security.”In his Twitter outburst earlier in the day, Mr. Trump accused the F.B.I. of opening “for no reason” and “with no proof” an investigation in 2017 into whether he had been working against American interests on behalf of Russia, painting his own actions toward Russia as actually “FAR tougher” than those of his predecessors.The Times article, published Friday evening, reported that law enforcement officials became so alarmed by Mr. Trump’s behavior surrounding his firing of Mr. Comey that they took the explosive step of opening a counterintelligence investigation against him.Naming several of the bureau’s now-departed top officials, including Mr. Comey and his deputy, Andrew G. McCabe, Mr. Trump said the F.B.I. had “tried to do a number on your President,” accusing the “losers” of essentially fabricating a case. “Part of the Witch Hunt,” he wrote — referring dismissively to the investigation now being overseen by Mr. Mueller.At the time he was fired in May 2017, Mr. Comey had been leading the F.B.I.’s investigation into Russia’s attempts to influence the 2016 presidential election, and the officials believed that his removal, in hindering the inquiry, posed a possible threat to national security. Their decision to open the case was informed, in part, by two instances in which Mr. Trump tied the firing to the Russia investigation.The inquiry they opened had two aspects, including both the newly disclosed counterintelligence element and a criminal element that has long been publicly known: whether the firing constituted obstruction of justice.When Mr. Mueller was appointed days later, he took over the joint inquiry as part of his larger investigation of Russia’s action in 2016 and whether anyone on the Trump campaign conspired with Moscow. It is not clear whether he is still pursuing the counterintelligence matter, and no public evidence has emerged that Mr. Trump himself secretly conspired with the Russian government or took directions from it.Mr. Trump indicated on Saturday that he had not known of the existence of the counterintelligence investigation before the Times article, and he did not dispute the newspaper’s reporting.But he made clear that he viewed any such inquiry as illegitimate from the start. He presented it, without evidence, as part of a vast, yearslong conspiracy to undo his presidency.In the tweets, Mr. Trump defended his decision to fire Mr. Comey — “a total sleaze!” — at length, accusing the former director of overseeing a “rigged &amp; botched” investigation of Mrs. Clinton, and leading the agency into “complete turmoil.” Democrats and Republicans alike wanted Mr. Comey removed, he said.“My firing of James Comey was a great day for America,” Mr. Trump wrote. “He was a Crooked Cop.”But an investigation conducted by the Justice Department’s inspector general and internal surveys of F.B.I. agents have undercut Mr. Trump’s portrayal of Mr. Comey as corrupt and unpopular within the bureau.Mr. Trump’s comments echoed those that his White House spokeswoman, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, released on Friday night.“This is absurd. James Comey was fired because he’s a disgraced partisan hack, and his deputy, Andrew McCabe, who was in charge at the time, is a known liar fired by the F.B.I.,” Ms. Sanders said. “Unlike President Obama, who let Russia and other foreign adversaries push America around, President Trump has actually been tough on Russia.”Parts of the statements by Mr. Trump and Ms. Sanders are at odds with the public record and with the findings of the inspector general’s report. While Democrats were furious with Mr. Comey over his public statements about the Clinton email server case — at a news conference and in a pair of letters in the middle of the campaign — they were deeply alarmed by his removal, given his role in the Russia investigation.In his report, the inspector general, Michael E. Horowitz, pointedly criticized Mr. Comey for breaking with longstanding policy to publicly discuss the Clinton case, and he castigated “insubordinate” senior officials who worked with Mr. Comey for privately criticizing Mr. Trump even as they investigated him. But he ultimately said he had found no evidence to believe that the decisions not to charge Mrs. Clinton for her use of a private email server in handling classified information “were affected by bias or other improper considerations.”“Rather, we concluded that they were based on the prosecutor’s assessment of facts, the law and past department practice,” he wrote.Mr. McCabe, who briefly served as acting director after Mr. Comey was removed, was fired last March for failing to be forthcoming with investigators about an unrelated conversation he had authorized between F.B.I. officials and a journalist. Mr. McCabe argued that the firing was politically motivated and designed to hinder the Russia investigation. Other members of Mr. Comey’s team have also been fired or left the bureau.Mr. Comey responded on Twitter on Saturday with a quotation attributed to former President Franklin D. Roosevelt: “I ask you to judge me by the enemies I have made.”The Times report cited former law enforcement officials and others familiar with the investigation, as well as private testimony that the F.B.I.’s former general counsel, James A. Baker, delivered to Congress related to the inquiry.“Not only would it be an issue of obstructing an investigation, but the obstruction itself would hurt our ability to figure out what the Russians had done, and that is what would be the threat to national security,” Mr. Baker said in his testimony, portions of which were read to The New York Times.Some former law enforcement officials outside the case have since debated whether F.B.I. investigators overreacted in opening the counterintelligence inquiry during a chaotic period after Mr. Comey’s firing. Other former officials noted that those critics were not privy to all of the evidence and argued that sitting on it would have been an abdication of duty.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.

Supported byDeep learning, deep insights, deep artificial minds — the list goes on and on. But with unprecedented promise comes some unprecedented peril.By Thomas L. FriedmanOpinion ColumnistAround the end of each year major dictionaries declare their “word of the year.” Last year, for instance, the most looked-up word at Merriam-Webster.com was “justice.” Well, even though it’s early, I’m ready to declare the word of the year for 2019.The word is “deep.”Why? Because recent advances in the speed and scope of digitization, connectivity, big data and artificial intelligence are now taking us “deep” into places and into powers that we’ve never experienced before — and that governments have never had to regulate before. I’m talking about deep learning, deep insights, deep surveillance, deep facial recognition, deep voice recognition, deep automation and deep artificial minds.Some of these technologies offer unprecedented promise and some unprecedented peril — but they’re all now part of our lives. Everything is going deep.Which is why it may not be an accident that one of the biggest hit songs today is “Shallow,” from the movie “A Star Is Born.” The main refrain, sung by Lady Gaga and Bradley Cooper, is: “I’m off the deep end, watch as I dive in. … We’re far from the shallow now.”We sure are. But the lifeguard is still on the beach and — here’s what’s really scary — he doesn’t know how to swim! More about that later. For now, how did we get so deep down where the sharks live?The short answer: Technology moves up in steps, and each step, each new platform, is usually biased toward a new set of capabilities. Around the year 2000 we took a huge step up that was biased toward connectivity, because of the explosion of fiber-optic cable, wireless and satellites.Suddenly connectivity became so fast, cheap, easy for you and ubiquitous that it felt like you could touch someone whom you could never touch before and that you could be touched by someone who could never touch you before.Around 2007, we took another big step up. The iPhone, sensors, digitization, big data, the internet of things, artificial intelligence and cloud computing melded together and created a new platform that was biased toward abstracting complexity at a speed, scope and scale we’d never experienced before. So many complex things became simplified. Complexity became so fast, free, easy to use and invisible that soon with one touch on Uber’s app you could page a taxi, direct a taxi, pay a taxi, rate a taxi driver and be rated by a taxi driver.Over the last decade, these advances in the speed of connectivity and the elimination of complexity have grown exponentially. Because as big data got really big, as broadband got really fast, as algorithms got really smart, as 5G got actually deployed, artificial intelligence got really intelligent. So now, with no touch — but just a voice command or machines acting autonomously — we can go so much deeper in so many areas.Scientists and doctors can now find the needle in the haystack of health data as the norm, not the exception, and therefore see certain disease patterns that were never apparent before. Machines can recognize your face so accurately that the Chinese government can punish you for jaywalking in Beijing, using street cameras, and you will never encounter a police officer. Indeed, with today’s facial recognition technology, I can dispense with the card reader at my office’s security gate and instead use each employee’s face as an ID. And cars can drive on their own.DeepMind, the artificial intelligence arm of Google’s parent, developed an A.I. program, AlphaGo, that has now defeated the world’s top human players of the ancient strategy game Go — which is much more complex than chess — by learning from human play. As The Times reported, DeepMind “showed yet another way that computers could be developed to perform better than humans in highly complex tasks” and to “mimic the way the brain functions.” DeepMind’s next breakthrough, AlphaZero, did not even need to learn from humans. It learned even faster by repeatedly playing against itself!Today “virtual agents” — using conversational interfaces powered by artificial intelligence — can increasingly understand your intent when you call the bank, credit card company or insurance company for service, just by hearing your voice. It means machines can answer so many more questions than nonmachines, also known as “humans.” The percentage of calls a chatbot, or virtual agent, is able to handle without turning the caller over to a person is called its “containment rate,” and these rates are steadily soaring. Soon, automated systems will be so humanlike that they will have to self-identify as machines.Automation is also going deep, fast. The Times’s Kevin Roose quoted Mohit Joshi, the president of Infosys, a technology firm that helps other businesses automate their operations, as saying in Davos last week: “People are looking to achieve very big numbers. Earlier they had incremental, 5 to 10 percent goals in reducing their work force. Now they’re saying, ‘Why can’t we do it with 1 percent of the people we have?’”But bad guys, who are always early adopters, also see the same potential to go deep in wholly new ways. They can fake your face and voice so well that they can create a YouTube video that will go viral of you saying racist things or make it look like the president of the United States just announced a nuclear attack on Russia. They can use technology to fake a bank manager’s voice so well that it can call your grandmother, and, with a voice command, ask her to transfer $10,000 to an account in Switzerland and she’ll do it — and you’ll never catch them in time.That’s why the adjective that so many people are affixing to all of these new capabilities to convey their awesome power is “deep.”On Jan. 20, The London Observer looked at Harvard Business School professor Shoshana Zuboff’s new book, the title of which perfectly describes the deep dark waters we’ve entered: “The Age of Surveillance Capital.”“Surveillance capitalism,” Zuboff wrote, “unilaterally claims human experience as free raw material for translation into behavioral data. Although some of these data are applied to service improvement, the rest are declared as a proprietary behavioral surplus, fed into advanced manufacturing processes known as ‘machine intelligence,’ and fabricated into prediction products that anticipate what you will do now, soon and later. Finally, these prediction products are traded in a new kind of marketplace that I call behavioral futures markets. Surveillance capitalists have grown immensely wealthy from these trading operations, for many companies are willing to lay bets on our future behavior.”Unfortunately, we have not developed the regulations or governance, or scaled the ethics, to manage a world of such deep powers, deep interactions and deep potential abuses.Two quotes tell that story: Last April, Senator Orrin Hatch was questioning Facebook C.E.O. Mark Zuckerberg during a joint hearing of the commerce and judiciary committees. At one point Hatch asked Zuckerberg, “So, how do you sustain a business model in which users don’t pay for your service?”Zuckerberg, clearly trying to stifle a laugh, replied, “Senator, we run ads.” Hatch did not seem to understand that Facebook’s business model is to mine users’ data and then run targeted ads — and Hatch was one of Facebook’s regulators.But then Zuckerberg was also clueless about how deep the powers of the Facebook platform had gone — deep enough that a few smart Russian hackers could manipulate it to help Donald Trump win the presidency.When faced with evidence that fake news spread on Facebook influenced the outcome of the 2016 election, Zuckerberg dismissed that notion as a “pretty crazy idea.” It turns out that it was happening at an industrial scale and he later had to apologize.Regulations often lag behind new technologies, but when they move this fast and cut this deep, that lag can be really dangerous. I wish I thought that catch-up was around the corner. I don’t. Our national discussion has never been more shallow — reduced to 280 characters.This has created an opening and burgeoning demand for political, social and religious leaders, government institutions and businesses that can go deep — that can validate what is real and offer the public deep truths, deep privacy protections and deep trust.But deep trust and deep loyalty cannot be forged overnight. They take time. That’s one reason this old newspaper I work for — the Gray Lady — is doing so well today. Not all, but many people, are desperate for trusted navigators. Many will also look for that attribute in our next president, because they sense that deep changes are afoot. It is unsettling, and yet, there’s no swimming back. We are, indeed, far from the shallow now.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Thomas L. Friedman is the foreign affairs Op-Ed columnist. He joined the paper in 1981, and has won three Pulitzer Prizes. He is the author of seven books, including “From Beirut to Jerusalem,” which won the National Book Award.  @tomfriedman • Facebook 

Supported byBy Chris Stanford(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning,We’re following a possible peace deal in Afghanistan, the reopening of the federal government and the latest news from Venezuela.American and Taliban officials have agreed in principle on a framework for a peace deal, the chief U.S. negotiator confirmed today, the first tangible step toward ending a 17-year war that has cost tens of thousands of lives.The details: The plan centers on a phased withdrawal of American troops in exchange for a Taliban cease-fire. The insurgent group would also pledge not to allow international terrorist groups to use Afghanistan as a hub. What’s next: The Taliban are debating the requirement that the group enter talks with the Afghan government and agree to a lasting cease-fire, two points they have long resisted.Another angle: The idea of a U.S. troop withdrawal worries Afghan women, who fear that their rights will be taken away.Negotiators from the House and Senate have less than three weeks to hash out a plan to secure the southwestern border, after President Trump signed a stopgap funding bill last week to end the partial government shutdown. Mr. Trump said he would shut down the government again or invoke emergency powers to build a wall if Congress doesn’t offer a solution he likes by Feb. 15.What’s next: Lawmakers will now demonstrate whether a divided government can produce results beyond a budget. Speaker Nancy Pelosi and President Trump are also likely to discuss rescheduling the State of the Union address.Perspective: “Tearing down, or refusing to fund, border walls won’t get anyone very far in the broader pursuit of global justice,” an author and editor at The Nation argues in an Op-Ed.Over the past year, the Trump administration has been pressuring allies to prevent Huawei and other Chinese companies from helping to build the next generation of cellular networks.The U.S. has suggested to Poland that future deployments of American troops could hinge on whether the country works with Huawei. In Germany, American officials warned that using Chinese telecoms equipment would pose a security risk to NATO.Why it matters: “In an age when the most powerful weapons, short of nuclear arms, are cyber-controlled, whichever country dominates 5G will gain an economic, intelligence and military edge for much of this century,” our national security correspondents write.What’s next? The U.S. campaign may complicate trade talks with China this week, particularly as Beijing demands the release of a Huawei executive who was arrested in Canada at America’s request.Explainer: Here’s what you need to know about the once-in-a-decade upgrade to wireless systems. President Nicolás Maduro backed down from demanding that all American diplomats leave the country this past weekend, even as the U.S. and other countries continued to press for new elections.Mr. Maduro remains in a standoff with Juan Guaidó, the opposition leader who proclaimed himself the country’s interim leader last week. European nations including Britain, France, Germany, the Netherlands and Spain said they would recognize Mr. Guaidó as interim president if Mr. Maduro didn’t agree within eight days to schedule new elections.Go deeper: Cuba is a longtime ally of Venezuela, but Havana’s role in the current leadership crisis is unclear.In sickle-cell disease, blood cells stuffed with hemoglobin, pictured above, are distorted. The misshapen cells get stuck in blood vessels, causing strokes, organ damage and agonizing pain. It’s an inherited condition that mainly afflicts people of African descent.In a half-dozen clinical trials planned or underway, researchers are testing strategies for correcting the problem at the genetic level. Already, a handful of enrolled patients no longer show signs of the disease.Second dam threat in Brazil: Fears of a dam collapse at an iron mine prompted evacuations in the town of Brumadinho on Sunday, two days after a separate dam break left at least 58 dead and hundreds missing. Residents blamed a lack of accountability in the country’s powerful mining industry.Roger Stone’s defense: The longtime Trump adviser, who was charged last week in the special counsel’s Russia investigation, said on Sunday that the text message exchanges that were cited in his indictment were being misrepresented.The 2020 election: Howard Schultz, the former chief executive of Starbucks and a self-described “lifelong Democrat,” said he was preparing to run for president as an independent.Diversity debate: A top law firm’s class of new partners — 11 men, one woman, all white — underscored how far large firms have to go to elevate women and minorities. (Paul, Weiss, is, in fact, more diverse at the partner level than most of its peers.)Snapshot: Above, the former Sachsenhausen Nazi concentration camp in Oranienburg, Germany, during International Holocaust Remembrance Day on Sunday. The phrase on the gate, “Arbeit macht frei” (Work sets you free), appeared at the entrance of several Nazi camps, including Auschwitz, which was liberated on Jan. 27, 1945. A not-so-live “Rent”: A highly publicized TV version of the musical, which was supposed to be performed live on Sunday, broadcast material shot the previous night after one of its lead actors broke his foot.What we’re scrolling through: This Instagram feed. Debbie Millman, the host of the “Design Matters” podcast, is just back from the trip of a lifetime. Her posts, according to Anna Holland, an editor in London, “aren’t envy-inducing photographs as much as reflective journal entries about facing your fears and learning what you’re capable of.”Cook: For a quick dinner, make a soba noodle salad with edamame, carrots and spinach.Listen: If you watched the Netflix and Hulu documentaries on the Fyre Festival and want to know more (we get it), here’s our Popcast.Watch: The latest movie trailers, including “Beach Bum” (featuring a lot of Matthew McConaughey) and Idris Elba’s directorial debut.See: “Hamlet 360: Thy Father’s Spirit” is a virtual reality presentation created by Google and the Commonwealth Shakespeare Company, in which the viewer is the ghost of Hamlet’s murdered father. Smarter Living: You can use your phone’s settings to silence notifications, but still let really important things through. On an iPhone, go to Settings and to Do Not Disturb, where you can schedule quiet hours but allow exceptions for parents, spouses, etc., or for repeat calls. Android phones vary, but you should find similar options by going to the Settings app, to Sound and to Do Not Disturb.We also have ideas on using built-in storage to make room for the dog, or even your in-laws.Happy Data Privacy Day!Or maybe not so happy. In the years since the celebration was born in Europe and adopted in the U.S. and Canada, digital privacy has become a mainstream concern.As someone who covers personal tech for a living, I’ve lost count of how many times hackers have breached companies’ computer systems and stolen customers’ credit card numbers, or worse. (Thanks, Equifax, Marriott and Facebook.)Digital privacy is no joke. If you do one thing to protect your data today — or this week, or this year — set aside a few hours to make stronger passwords.Make sure every password you use for logging in to a site or an app is unique and complex. Password management apps like 1Password or LastPass make it easy, letting you use one master password to reach a vault of all of your passwords.Trust me, you’ll feel a lot better.That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.— ChrisThank youTo Eleanor Stanford and James K. Williamson for the break from the news, and Brian X. Chen, the lead consumer technology writer at The Times, for today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about Roger Stone and his connection to WikiLeaks.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Salt Lake City’s state (4 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • Runa Sandvik, the senior director of information security at The Times, sends out stealthy phishing emails to the staff to see who falls for them. (Those who do get extra training in spotting fakes.)Chris Stanford is based in London and writes the U.S. version of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles a weekly news quiz. He was previously a producer for the desktop home page and mobile site, helping to present The New York Times’s news report to readers. Before joining The Times in 2013, he was an editor and designer at The Washington Post and other news organizations.  @stanfordc 

Supported byBy David E. Sanger and Julian E. BarnesWASHINGTON — A new American intelligence assessment of global threats has concluded that North Korea is unlikely to give up its nuclear stockpiles and that Iran is not, for now, taking steps necessary to make a bomb, directly contradicting the rationale of two of President Trump’s foreign policy initiatives.Those conclusions are part of an annual “Worldwide Threat Assessment” released on Tuesday that also stressed the growing cyberthreat from Russia and China, which it said were now “more aligned than at any point since the mid-1950s.”The 42-page threat report found that American trade policies and “unilateralism” — central themes of Mr. Trump’s “America First” approach — have strained traditional alliances and prompted foreign partners to seek new relationships.In testimony before the Senate Intelligence Committee linked to the release of the report, the nation’s intelligence chiefs tried to avoid directly questioning administration policies. Yet they detailed a different ranking of the threats facing the United States, starting with cyberattacks and moving on to the endurance of the Islamic State and the capabilities of both North Korea and Iran.Dan Coats, the national intelligence director, told lawmakers that the Islamic State would continue “to stoke violence” in Syria. He was backed up by the written review, which said there were thousands of fighters in Iraq and Syria and a dozen Islamic State networks around the world.Just last month, Mr. Trump said that “we have won against ISIS; we’ve beaten them, and we’ve beaten them badly” in announcing the withdrawal of American troops from Syria.The starkest contradiction drawn by the intelligence chiefs was their assessment of North Korea.Mr. Trump is expected to meet next month with Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader, in a second round of direct negotiations aimed at ridding Pyongyang of its nuclear weapons. After his last meeting, in Singapore, Mr. Trump tweeted that “there is no longer a Nuclear Threat from North Korea.”Mr. Coats described his concerns in opposite terms.He cited “some activity that is inconsistent with full denuclearization,” adding that most of what North Korea has dismantled is reversible. He said the North’s “leaders ultimately view nuclear weapons as critical to regime survival.”Similarly, the threat review declared that “we currently assess North Korea will seek to retain its W.M.D. capability and is unlikely to completely give up its nuclear weapons and production capability.”Mr. Trump has often noted, accurately, that North Korea has suspended missile tests; its last major test was 14 months ago. But on Tuesday, Gina Haspel, the C.I.A. director, said the government in Pyongyang “is committed to developing a long-range nuclear-armed missile that would pose a direct threat to the United States.”Ms. Haspel said it was encouraging that North Korea was communicating with the United States. But under questioning by Senator Kamala Harris, the California Democrat who this month announced her candidacy for president, Ms. Haspel said the diplomatic objective was still to insist that North Korea fully disclose and dismantle its nuclear program.On Iran, Mr. Coats cited Tehran’s continued support of terrorism in Europe and the Middle East, including sponsoring Houthis in Yemen and Shiite militants in Iraq. He also said that he believed that Iranian hard-liners would continue to challenge centrist rivals.But on one of Mr. Trump’s key assertions — that Iran had cheated on the spirit of the 2015 nuclear agreement even if it was temporarily following its terms — Mr. Coats said Tehran continued to comply with the deal even after the president announced in May that the United States would withdraw from it.“We do not believe Iran is currently undertaking activities we judge necessary to produce a nuclear device,” Mr. Coats said.He added, however, that Iranian officials have “publicly threatened to push the boundaries” of the nuclear agreement if it did not see benefits that were promised, including a resumption of oil sales and an end to American sanctions against its financial transactions around the world.Mr. Trump has called the nuclear agreement “defective at its core” and warned that Iran would “be on the cusp of acquiring the world’s most dangerous weapons” if it remained in place. The agreement still stands, largely with support from European capitals.Senator Angus King, the Maine independent who caucuses with Democrats, asked Ms. Haspel point-blank if Iran remained in compliance with the nuclear deal.She said it was, but added that Iranian leaders were considering steps that would “lessen their adherence” to the agreement.“They are making some preparations that would increase their ability to take a step back if they make that decision,” Ms. Haspel said. “So at the moment, technically they are in compliance, but we do see them debating amongst themselves as they’ve failed to realize the economic benefits they hoped for from the deal.”Intelligence officials have long taken stronger positions than Mr. Trump on North Korea’s continuing nuclear activity, the strength of the Islamic State and Russia’s attempts to influence elections. Mr. Trump has often chafed at assessments he finds at variance with his worldview.April F. Doss, a former associate general counsel at the National Security Agency, said it is not surprising for the intelligence community to stake out facts at odds with the administration view, given that the most recent National Intelligence Strategy noted the spy agencies’ responsibility to “speak truth to power.”The intelligence chiefs emphasized “the commitment to analyzing intelligence in a manner tied to objective facts, not domestic partisan agendas,” said Ms. Doss, now a partner at the law firm Saul Ewing Arnstein &amp; Lehr.Mr. Trump famously clashed with the spy agencies over their conclusions that Russia was behind the hacking and influence operations that marred the 2016 presidential election. On Tuesday, the new director of the Cyber Command, Gen. Paul Nakasone, told the Senate committee that the American efforts to blunt Russian interference in the recent midterm elections had been successful, though he gave no details — an effort Mr. Trump has never discussed.Much of the hearing focused on cyberthreats from Russia and particularly from China, which the written report said is now positioned to conduct effective cyberattacks against American infrastructure. It specifically cited Beijing’s ability to cut off natural gas pipelines.Lawmakers discussed the challenges that new technologies being developed by China, Russia and others were posing.“We’re now living in yet another new age, a time characterized by hybrid warfare, weaponized disinformation, all occurring within the context of a world producing more data than mankind has ever seen,” said Senator Richard M. Burr, Republican of North Carolina and the committee’s chairman.Foreign enemies “want to see the United States weakened, if not destroyed,” he said. “They want to see us abandon our friends and our allies. They want to see us lessen our global presence. They want to see us squabble and divide. But their tools are different.”Senator Tom Cotton, Republican of Arkansas, joined Mr. King to highlight dangers posed by Huawei, the Chinese telecommunication giant, which was named in Justice Department indictments on Monday.Mr. King said the company needed to choose between being “a worldwide telecommunications company or an agent of the Chinese government.”Responding, Lt. Gen. Robert P. Ashley Jr., the director of the Defense Intelligence Agency, said no Chinese company could truly choose whether to cooperate or hand over data, given Beijing’s grip.“It is really authoritarian capitalism in the way the government provides oversight and puts very strict rules in place,” General Ashley said. “It is very problematic.”The written threat review also found that Russia’s ability to conduct cyberespionage and influence campaigns remains similar to its efforts in the 2016 American presidential election. But, it said, the bigger concern is that “Moscow is now staging cyberattack assets to allow it to disrupt or damage U.S. civilian and military infrastructure during a crisis.”It specifically noted Russia’s planting of malware in the United States electricity grid. Russia already has the ability to bring the grid down “for at least a few hours,” the review concluded, but is “mapping our critical infrastructure with the long-term goal of being able to cause substantial damage.”Taken together, the report paints a picture of threats vastly different from those asserted by Mr. Trump.Notably missing in the written review was evidence that would support building a wall on the southwestern border; the first mention of Mexico and drug cartels was published nearly halfway through the report — following a range of more pressing threats.Mr. Trump has said the wall is among the most critical security threats facing the United States.

Supported byLet us help you start your day. By Penn BullockGood morning. The U.S. government shutdown dragged on, Ukrainian Orthodox Christians left the Russian church, and the White House backtracked on a Syria withdrawal. Here’s the latest: Negotiations over the weekend appeared to offer little hope of an immediate agreement between Democrats and President Trump over his demands for a border wall. Democratic leaders have repeatedly said they would not agree to any funding for the wall. The White House is also digging in, insisting on $5.7 billion in wall funding, even as some Republicans have started to call for an end to the shutdown. Mr. Trump gave little ground. “They don’t like concrete, so we’ll give them steel,” he said. Analysis: The idea of the border wall, which advisers to Mr. Trump said they initially created to remind Mr. Trump to talk tough on immigration during his campaign, has boxed in the president. He’s now struggling to find a way to please both his core supporters and conservative skeptics who see the wall as ineffective.In Opinion: Our columnist David Leonhardt builds a detailed argument that Mr. Trump is demonstrably unfit for office and “must go,” but that a rushed impeachment could actually help him remain in office.Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew I, the spiritual leader of Eastern Orthodox Christians worldwide, recognized the independence of the Orthodox Church of Ukraine in a four-hour ceremony in Istanbul, formalizing a split with the Russian church to which it had been tied for more than four centuries.Impact: In a speech at the ceremony, President Petro Poroshenko of Ukraine hailed the moment as an assertion of Ukrainian independence. Both the patriarch and the new autonomous Ukrainian church say this is no schism but a sensible realignment. Political and religious leaders in Russia are outraged.Looking ahead: Today is Christmas in the Orthodox Church, and while a celebration of independence will be held at a cathedral in Kiev, a part of the Ukrainian church still loyal to Russia has claimed the split is against the rules. The number of parishes under Russian control now shrinks by a third, and there are fears of rising factionalism and violent clashes over church property. Populism on the right appears to be entering a new phase. The migration and terrorism crises that fueled its rise have eased, leaving populist leaders a stripped-down message of opposition to pluralism, multiculturalism and international cooperation. So they are manufacturing a sense of emergency, our correspondent writes. In France: Protests by the Yellow Vests, the first of the year, turned violent as a government ministry building was attacked and skirmishes broke out between demonstrators and the police.Italy: Matteo Salvini, the country’s hard-line interior minister, has brought his far-right politics into the mainstream by appealing to people with a soft aura of authenticity and an expert use of social media, documenting his everyday life of pasta and wine and Nutella while lashing at opponents. Hungary: The country’s populist government faced more protests this weekend over the new so-called slave law, which compels workers to put in overtime without full or immediate compensation.For centuries, women have been expected to stick to bad marriages in many conservative pockets of West Africa, where babies are sometimes given up for marriage in the womb. Now, lawyers, women’s associations, local officials and academics say they are seeing, across both Muslim and Christian areas, a quiet revolution. Details: In Niger, women face some of the worst inequality in the world. But they are daring for the first time to demand love, respect, financial stability, a healthy sex life — and, barring that, a divorce. Child marriage is also being fought, and attitudes are shifting. Our journalist followed a woman named Zalika Amadou as she petitioned for divorce at a sidewalk Islamic court. Quote: “These young women don’t want to suffer any more,” an Islamic judge said. “There is a solution to their problems, and they know they can find it here.” Ms. Amadou’s mother gave voice to the old way of thinking: “It’s the end of the world when a husband and wife don’t stay together.”Syria: President Trump’s national security adviser, John Bolton, rolled back Mr. Trump’s decision to rapidly withdraw from Syria, laying out conditions that could leave American forces there for months or even years. Ireland: Legalized abortion services started being offered in the country last week, after a referendum last year that repealed some of the most restrictive abortion laws in Europe. Golden Globes: “Bohemian Rhapsody” won best drama and its star, Rami Malek, won best actor. Alfonso Cuarón won best director for “Roma,” which also won best foreign film. Here are the winners, and a look at fashion from the red carpet. Germany: Personal information on nearly 1,000 lawmakers and other prominent Germans, including rappers, journalists and internet personalities, was hacked and publicized by unknown perpetrators who appeared to spare politicians on the far right. Russia: An explosion at an apartment complex that killed 39 people last week has illustrated the hardships that ordinary Russians are asked to endure by the government, particularly in the country’s hinterlands and industrial backwaters.Belgium: A ban on the Muslim and Jewish ways of ritually slaughtering animals went into effect in the new year, angering religious groups and winning praise from animal rights activists as well as many on the right.A debate over Arabic: Three million people use Arabic on a daily basis in France, but public schools have barely taught it, so mosques and private associations stepped in to address the educational gap. In September, the government announced a plan to shoulder the teaching, and that has set off a political debate on all sides. Want to tidy up? Here’s some motivation — researchers have found that a cluttered home leads to increased stress and procrastination.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Make a hearty stew of lentils, roasted eggplant and orzo. Here are some thoughts on pubic waxing. What to do if you fear you’re about to be fired.The annual International Consumer Electronics Show, the showcase for the world’s biggest consumer electronics companies, begins this week in Las Vegas. We asked Brian X. Chen, our lead consumer technology writer, how he manages to report on this vast trade show.The first CES I covered was for Wired in 2009, so this will be my 11th consecutive year. Here’s how I stay sane while reporting on one of the most sprawling and, frankly, stressful trade shows in the world.To help me focus on the most newsworthy topics, I do prebriefings, where companies tell me what they are going to unveil — so long as I pledge not to reveal anything early.For weeks, my inbox has exploded with requests for meetings, often with obscure start-ups. (In the eight hours before I wrote this, I received 85.) Sometimes I agree, but usually these pitches aren’t the right fit.The show covers about 2.7 million square feet, so I wear comfortable, sturdy boots. I carry my laptop, a bulky battery pack for my phone, trail mix, business cards and, most important, hand sanitizer. (Despite this precaution, I’ve returned with what we veterans call the CES plague about six times.)That reminds me: I should stop by the pharmacy for more hand sanitizer.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.An earlier version of this briefing misstated the number of times Brian X. Chen has attended International CES. This is his 11th consecutive year, not 10th.

Supported byBy Mike IsaacSAN FRANCISCO — Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, plans to integrate the social network’s messaging services — WhatsApp, Instagram and Facebook Messenger — asserting his control over the company’s sprawling divisions at a time when its business has been battered by scandal.The services will continue to operate as stand-alone apps, but their underlying technical infrastructure will be unified, said four people involved in the effort. That will bring together three of the world’s largest messaging networks, which between them have more than 2.6 billion users, allowing people to communicate across the platforms for the first time.The move has the potential to redefine how billions of people use the apps to connect with one another while strengthening Facebook’s grip on users, raising antitrust, privacy and security questions. It also underscores how Mr. Zuckerberg is imposing his authority over units he once vowed to leave alone.The plan — which is in the early stages, with a goal of completion by the end of this year or early 2020 — requires thousands of Facebook employees to reconfigure how WhatsApp, Instagram and Facebook Messenger function at their most basic levels, said the people involved in the effort, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the matter is confidential.Mr. Zuckerberg has also ordered that the apps all incorporate end-to-end encryption, the people said, a major step that protects messages from being viewed by anyone except the participants in a conversation.In a statement, Facebook said it wanted to “build the best messaging experiences we can; and people want messaging to be fast, simple, reliable and private.” It added: “We’re working on making more of our messaging products end-to-end encrypted and considering ways to make it easier to reach friends and family across networks.”By stitching the apps’ infrastructure together, Mr. Zuckerberg hopes to increase Facebook’s utility and keep users highly engaged inside the company’s ecosystem. That could reduce people’s appetite for rival messaging services, like those offered by Apple and Google. If users can interact more frequently with Facebook’s apps, the company might also be able to increase its advertising business or add new revenue-generating services, the people said.The change follows two years of scrutiny of Facebook’s core social network, which has been criticized for allowing election meddling and the spreading of disinformation. Those and other issues have slowed Facebook’s growth and damaged its reputation, raising the hackles of lawmakers and regulators around the world. Mr. Zuckerberg has repeatedly apologized for the problems and has vowed to fix them.Knitting together Facebook’s apps is a stark reversal of Mr. Zuckerberg’s previous stance toward WhatsApp and Instagram, which were independent companies that Facebook acquired. At the time of the acquisitions, Mr. Zuckerberg promised WhatsApp and Instagram plenty of autonomy from their new parent company. (Facebook Messenger is a homegrown service spun off the main Facebook app in 2014.)WhatsApp and Instagram have grown tremendously since then, prompting Mr. Zuckerberg to change his thinking, one of the people said. He now believes integrating the services more tightly will benefit Facebook’s entire “family of apps” in the long term by making them more useful, the person said. Mr. Zuckerberg floated the idea for months and began to promote it to employees more heavily toward the end of 2018, the people said.The effort has caused strife within Facebook. Instagram’s founders, Kevin Systrom and Mike Krieger,  left the company abruptly last fall after Mr. Zuckerberg began weighing in more. WhatsApp’s founders, Jan Koum and Brian Acton,  departed for similar reasons. More recently, dozens of WhatsApp employees clashed with Mr. Zuckerberg over the integration plan on internal message boards and during a contentious staff meeting in December, according to four people who attended or were briefed on the event.The integration plan raises privacy questions because of how users’ data may be shared between services. WhatsApp currently requires only a phone number when new users sign up. By contrast, Facebook and Facebook Messenger ask users to provide their true identities. Matching Facebook and Instagram users to their WhatsApp handles could give pause to those who prefer to keep their use of each app separate.“As you would expect, there is a lot of discussion and debate as we begin the long process of figuring out all the details of how this will work,” Facebook said in a statement.Marc Rotenberg, president and executive director the Electronic Privacy Information Center, said on Friday that the change would be “a terrible outcome for internet users.” He urged the Federal Trade Commission, America’s de facto privacy regulator, to “act now to protect privacy and to preserve competition.”Representative Ro Khanna, Democrat of California, criticized the change on antitrust grounds.“This is why there should have been far more scrutiny during Facebook’s acquisitions of Instagram and WhatsApp, which now clearly seem like horizontal mergers that should have triggered antitrust scrutiny,” he said in a message on Twitter. “Imagine how different the world would be if Facebook had to compete with Instagram and WhatsApp.”People in many countries often rely on only one or two text messaging services. In China, WeChat, which is made by Tencent, is popular, while WhatsApp is heavily used in South America. Americans are more divided in their use of such services, SMS text messages, Apple’s iMessage and various Google chat apps.For Facebook, the move also offers avenues for making money from Instagram and WhatsApp. WhatsApp currently generates little revenue; Instagram produces ad revenue but none from its messaging. Mr. Zuckerberg does not yet have specific plans for how to profit from integrating the services, said two of the people involved in the matter. A more engaged audience could result in new forms of advertising or other services for which Facebook could charge a fee, they said.One potential business opportunity involves Facebook Marketplace, a free Craigslist-like product where people can buy and sell goods. The service is popular in Southeast Asia and other markets outside the United States.When the apps are knitted together, Facebook Marketplace buyers and sellers in Southeast Asia will be able to communicate with one another using WhatsApp, which is popular in the region, rather than using Facebook Messenger or another, non-Facebook text message service. That could eventually yield new ad opportunities or profit-generating services, said one of the people.Some Facebook employees said they were confused about what made combining the messaging services so compelling to Mr. Zuckerberg. Some said it was jarring because of his past promises about independence. When Facebook acquired WhatsApp for $19 billion in 2014, Mr. Koum talked publicly about user privacy, and said, “If partnering with Facebook meant that we had to change our values, we wouldn’t have done it.”Last month, during one of WhatsApp’s monthly meetings for staff members, it became clear that Mr. Zuckerberg’s mandate would be a priority in 2019, said a person who was there. One WhatsApp employee then conducted an analysis of how many potential new users in the United States the integration plan could bring to Facebook, said two people familiar with the study. The total was relatively meager, the analysis showed.To assuage concerns, Mr. Zuckerberg called a follow-up meeting with WhatsApp employees a few days later, three of the people said. On Dec. 7, employees gathered around microphones at the WhatsApp offices to ask him why he was so invested in merging the services. Some said his answers were vague and meandering. Several WhatsApp employees have left or plan to leave because of Mr. Zuckerberg’s plans, the people said.Unifying the infrastructure for WhatsApp, Instagram and Facebook Messenger is technically challenging. Unlike Facebook Messenger and Instagram, WhatsApp does not store messages and keeps minimal user data. It is the only one of the services to currently use end-to-end encryption by default.Encrypted messaging has long been supported by privacy advocates who fear governments or hackers may gain access to people’s personal messages. But it will raise other issues for Facebook, particularly related to its ability to spot and curb the spread of illicit activity or disinformation.Last year, researchers had trouble tracking disinformation on WhatsApp before the Brazilian presidential election, before eventually finding ways to do so. WhatsApp has recently placed limits on how many times a message can be forwarded on the service, in an effort to reduce the distribution of false content.Follow Mike Isaac on Twitter: @MikeIsaac.

Supported byCritic’s NotebookNaturalistic pet performers, in movies like “Can You Ever Forgive Me?” and “Widows,” are making Toto look like a hack.By Amanda HessThe movie had a dead cat problem. As the director Marielle Heller prepared to shoot “Can You Ever Forgive Me?,” a biopic about the literary forger Lee Israel, she knew that she would need a highly realistic prop to pull off the pivotal scene where Israel finds her beloved pet cat, Jersey, dead. Heller wanted a dead cat with heft. She wanted an inanimate object that her star, Melissa McCarthy, could act against. “I was really intense about it,” Heller said over the phone recently. “We discussed strategy a number of times.”So important was the dead cat that Heller sought to secure it even before casting the film’s real live Jersey. She’d just find a feline that looked like her wonderful prop. How much difference could the real one make, anyway? On her first film, “The Diary of a Teenage Girl,” she had saved money by tossing her own cat, Willie, in front of the camera. So when the movie’s animal trainer promised to bring in what she called her highest-performing cat, Heller wasn’t sure what that could mean. That it wasn’t going to pee everywhere?The cat’s name was Towne. He was a lanky black and white guy with green eyes and a petal pink nose, and to everyone’s surprise, he was amazing. Yes, he followed directions — hitting his marks with the help of a trainer equipped with a clicker and a laser pointer — but he also seemed to do something more. “Towne had a very expressive face,” Heller said. There is a moment in the film where he gazes toward McCarthy “sort of sympathetically, and also judgmentally, and you feel all of that,” she added. Heller ended up commissioning a prop modeled after Towne that cost thousands of dollars — the most expensive one for the production.Towne’s efforts did not go unnoticed. “This cat is out-acting me,” McCarthy thought as they worked. “The Marlon Brando of cats,” Deadline raved upon the film’s release. Declared Jezebel: “This Cat Deserves an Oscar!” Towne’s turn in “Can You Ever Forgive Me?” is emblematic of a new class of animal performances, ones that are recognized as much for what the animal does not do as for what it does. These animals are not filmed talking like humans or fetching things. They don’t shake hands or roll over. Instead they are captured somewhat naturalistically. Towne spends much of “Can You Ever Forgive Me?” gazing languidly from the couch. At the emotional core of “Roma” sits a family dog, its incessant barking, and its accumulating waste; Borras is a professional dog behaving as if woefully untrained. And in “Widows,” a fluffy white terrier named Olivia pants calmly, the image of unsuspecting innocence, as violent criminals creep around her. Olivia is “paving new ground for the canine acting community,” Alyssa Bereznak wrote at The Ringer, and she has ambled into her own grass roots Oscar campaign.By these modern standards, Toto is an amateur. Mister Ed? A hack. A year of buzzy pet performances raises the question: Are animals getting better at acting?Before we get to that, some sad news: After a decade-long career, Towne himself died last year. In a phone interview, his trainers described him as a really nice cat who loved people. He is survived by his look-alike brother, with whom he often acted.Towne was never really acting, at least, not in the human sense. If animals have any “motivation” for their performances, it lies largely in delicious treats. Towne loved jars of baby food, while Olivia dined on hot dogs on the “Widows” set. Our sense of a “good” animal actor is a combination of its behavioral training and our own emotional projection. But are they getting better?They are, kind of.Animals were among the first silent film stars, and they’ve been hailed as natural performers ever since. “A certain critical tradition has taken animals as the standard by which to judge all acting, animal or human,” said James Leo Cahill, a professor of cinema studies at the University of Toronto. The appeal lies in their “lack of self-consciousness before the camera.” But while animals have often been coded as naturals, they have not always been filmed that way. It was once common to use physical restraints, shock collars and trip wires to produce unnatural animal behaviors on film. Consider the “Dogville” comic shorts that played before features in the 1930s, in which dogs appeared to play instruments, walk on two legs, and kiss each other, effects that could be achieved by attaching piano wire to the dogs’ limbs and manipulating their bodies like puppets.Those practices drew protests from animal rights groups, and by the 1940s, animal welfare regulations had arrived in Hollywood. “One of the biggest shifts in how animals are filmed” arose from “cultural re-evaluations of what constitutes cruelty toward animals,” said Courtney E. White, an instructor at Columbia College Hollywood who studies the intersection of cinema and animal welfare. As Jonathan Burt noted in his 2002 book “Animals in Film,” the focus of filmmaking flipped from serving what the director wanted to what the animal needed.The shift helped fuel a swiftly professionalizing animal training industry. A highly skilled and thoroughly prepared animal became much more important to a production’s success. Burt writes that while it was once typical for trainers to show up on set cold, they now received exacting instructions in advance. At the same time, training methods were growing more sophisticated: applying B.F. Skinner’s operant conditioning theories allowed trainers to reward more precise behaviors in animals and delay their gratification, too — helping animals to “act” in a scene without always looking to a trainer for instructions or treats.As the treatment of animals changed, so did viewer expectations. Film became a powerful tool for animal rights activists, a trend that’s culminated in PETA’s sophisticated viral video operation. Modern audiences are now hypersensitive to images of animal harm. Just a whiff of force can make them uneasy, even when the animal on set is perfectly safe. Part of what was so unusual about Olivia in “Widows” was her apparent Zen calm even while in the clutches of a villain.These changing norms can appear almost like a stylistic shift. Cahill calls the effect “not unlike pre- and post-Method acting, which dramatically changed the criteria upon which naturalistic acting was both approached and judged.” Today’s animals are, paradoxically, both better trained and styled as more “natural” than their predecessors.It’s probably not a coincidence that “natural” animal actors are earning rapturous praise just as we enter a new era of unreal images, thanks to the rise of C.G.I. Olivia’s trainer, Greg Tresan of Animal Casting Atlanta, said that his animals are now routinely submitted for full body scans before filming. Disney’s forthcoming “live-action” adaptation of “The Lion King” will star a savanna of computer-generated animals. A performer like Towne — who, Heller assured me, was unassisted by C.G.I. — is now an outlier.C.G.I. can achieve feats that real animals cannot, but like the piano wires before it, it can also disturb in its unreality. “A lot of film theory would argue that no matter how good the fake animal gets, it won’t produce the same emotional resonance in viewers as a real animal,” White said. Perhaps Hollywood’s wave of elaborate fake creatures has inspired a bit of a backlash, too, and a renewed desire for animal images that feel studiously real.After all, on YouTube, hyper-realistic animal performances abound, filmed by amateurs who have all the time in the world to capture interesting behaviors from their pets. We’ve never been more aware of what cats and dogs look like in the natural wilds of our living rooms. The social internet is fueled by such images. Hollywood is panting to catch up.Amanda Hess is a critic-at-large. She writes about internet culture for the Arts section and contributes regularly to The New York Times Magazine. She has written for such publications as Slate, ESPN the Magazine, Elle and Pacific Standard.  @amandahess • Facebook 

Supported byBy Mark Mazzetti, Maggie Haberman and Michael S. SchmidtWASHINGTON — President Trump was involved in discussions to build a skyscraper in Moscow throughout the entire 2016 presidential campaign, his personal lawyer said on Sunday, a longer and more significant role for Mr. Trump than he had previously acknowledged.The comments by his lawyer Rudolph W. Giuliani indicated that Mr. Trump’s efforts to complete a business deal in Russia waned only after Americans cast ballots in the presidential election.The new timetable means that Mr. Trump was seeking a deal at the time he was calling for an end to economic sanctions against Russia imposed by the Obama administration. He was seeking a deal when he gave interviews questioning the legitimacy of NATO, a favorite talking point of President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia. And he was seeking a deal when, in July 2016, he called on Russia to release hacked Democratic emails that Mr. Putin’s government was rumored at the time to have stolen.The Trump Tower Moscow discussions were “going on from the day I announced to the day I won,” Mr. Giuliani quoted Mr. Trump as saying during an interview with The New York Times. It was one of a flurry of interviews Mr. Giuliani did on Sunday amid fallout from a disputed report by BuzzFeed News that President Trump had personally directed his former lawyer and fixer, Michael D. Cohen, to lie to Congress about the negotiations over the skyscraper.Mr. Giuliani denied that claim, and a spokesman for the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, called BuzzFeed’s report “inaccurate” in a rare statement.Mr. Giuliani also acknowledged that Mr. Trump might have talked to Mr. Cohen before his congressional testimony but he said his client had never instructed Mr. Cohen to lie. Mr. Trump acknowledged discussing the Moscow project with Mr. Cohen in written responses that the president gave Mr. Mueller’s investigators days before they revealed that Mr. Cohen had pleaded guilty to lying to Congress.“There was no question that he was asked by the special counsel a question that said, ‘Did you talk to him before he testified?’” Mr. Giuliani said.“There were questions like, ‘Did you talk about the Moscow project with Michael Cohen?’ to which we answered yes.”Later in the day, Mr. Giuliani said he was merely allowing for the possibility that the president and Mr. Cohen could have discussed the Moscow project through the election but that no notes or call logs indicated specific conversations about Russia.“We’re at Cohen’s mercy for the dates,” Mr. Giuliani said, adding that the president “doesn’t remember the dates. He does remember conversations about Moscow. He does remember the letter of intent. He does remember, after that, fleeting conversations.”He added that he was trying to keep Mr. Trump from legal exposure if prosecutors uncover evidence of a conversation that the president has said he does not recall.Like so many other threads of the Russia saga, the story that the president’s aides have told about the Trump Tower Moscow negotiations has changed repeatedly. First, they said that the discussions never moved beyond their infancy, barely involved Mr. Trump, and ended well before the Republican primaries. Then, when Mr. Cohen pleaded guilty in November to lying to Congress about the Tower negotiations, the special counsel’s office revealed they extended at least until the middle of 2016.When — and even if — the discussions officially ended remains unclear, and Mr. Giuliani did not provide clarity.Even after Mr. Trump secured a surprise victory in November 2016 — and as evidence was mounting that the Russians had carried out a sophisticated campaign to disrupt the presidential election — Mr. Trump’s top aides took part in numerous meetings and phone conversations with Russians that have been a focus of Mr. Mueller’s investigation.Jared Kushner, the president’s son-in-law and senior adviser, met with the head of a Russian bank under sanctions and asked Russia’s ambassador to Washington, Sergey I. Kislyak, whether Mr. Trump’s aides could use phone lines at the Russian embassy to communicate with Moscow during the presidential transition. Michael T. Flynn, who would become President Trump’s first national security adviser, discussed sanctions with Mr. Kislyak numerous times in December 2016 as President Obama punished Russia for its campaign of election interference.Mr. Flynn pleaded guilty a year later to lying to F.B.I. agents about his communications with Mr. Kislyak.The tangled, yearslong negotiations to build a Trump Tower in Moscow were emblematic of the process Mr. Trump used to stamp his name on luxury buildings around the world — developing relationships with foreign businessmen and government officials to navigate the byzantine world of international real estate.For the Moscow project, Mr. Trump appears to have relied on Mr. Cohen to be the lead negotiator, and interviews, emails and court documents show that Mr. Cohen made a vigorous effort to try to get the blessing of the Kremlin for the project and even tried to arrange a trip to Moscow for Mr. Trump.His partner in the effort was Felix Sater, a former felon who had also performed work for Mr. Trump and had deep contacts in Russian business and political circles. Mr. Sater cultivated this web of contacts for years, from when he was secretly working for American intelligence agencies during the 1990s — work that prompted federal authorities to reduce Mr. Sater’s penalty after a guilty plea in a securities fraud case.In late 2015, months after Mr. Trump announced his presidential candidacy, Mr. Sater sent an enthusiastic message to Mr. Cohen bragging about how he would tap his Russian connections for the tower project and “get all of Putin’s team to buy in on this.”“Buddy,” Mr. Sater wrote, “our boy can become President of the USA and we can engineer it.”Mr. Sater later testified to the House Intelligence Committee that his boastful emails overstated his ties to the Kremlin, and his message about getting Mr. Trump elected meant only that he thought the Trump Tower deal might generate publicity for the campaign.One of the people Mr. Sater contacted was Evgeny Shmykov, a former general in Russian military intelligence who once worked with anti-Taliban fighters in Afghanistan. Mr. Sater appears to have seen Mr. Shmykov as a conduit to get Russian government approval for the Trump project.According to emails reviewed by The Times, Mr. Sater sent an urgent message to Mr. Cohen in late 2015 saying that Mr. Shmykov was on the phone and he needed passport information for Mr. Cohen and Mr. Trump so they could receive visas.Mr. Sater said that, for diplomatic reasons, the Kremlin could not issue the visas. Instead, he said, a Russian bank could provide the documents as part of “a business meeting not political.”The Moscow trip for Mr. Trump and Mr. Cohen never materialized, but court documents released in November as part of Mr. Cohen’s guilty plea showed that Mr. Cohen pursued the Moscow project well into 2016.He made numerous attempts to reach Mr. Putin’s press secretary, Dmitry Peskov, who arranged for Mr. Cohen to speak to another Kremlin official. Mr. Cohen told prosecutors for the special counsel that, during a January 2016 conversation, the Kremlin official “asked detailed questions and took notes, stating that she would follow up with others in Russia.”Mr. Cohen told prosecutors that the discussions lasted at least until June 14, 2016, when he met with Mr. Sater in the lobby of Trump Tower in New York and told him he would not be traveling to Russia “at that time,” according to court documents. On the same day, The Washington Post reported that Russian operatives had infiltrated the computer network of the Democratic National Committee — the first public evidence of Moscow’s campaign to disrupt the election.Now, based on Mr. Giuliani’s remarks on Sunday, it appears that the negotiations over the Moscow skyscraper deal continued even months beyond that.President Trump did not elaborate on his lawyer’s remarks, but in November said there was nothing wrong with him pursuing a deal to enlarge his business empire at the same time he hoped to become president of the United States.“There was a good chance that I wouldn’t have won, in which case I would have gotten back into the business, and why should I lose lots of opportunities?” the president said.Mr. Trump said he ultimately decided not to go through with the project — without saying how long the discussions lasted.But, he added, “There would have been nothing wrong if I did do it.”Mark Mazzetti and Michael S. Schmidt reported from Washington, and Maggie Haberman from New York.

Supported byBy Paul MozurSHANGHAI — One man spent 15 days in a detention center. The police threatened another’s family. A third was chained to a chair for eight hours of interrogation.Their offense: posting on Twitter.The Chinese police, in a sharp escalation of the country’s online censorship efforts, are questioning and detaining a growing number of Twitter users even though the social media platform is blocked in China and the vast majority of people in the country cannot see it.The crackdown is the latest front in President Xi Jinping’s campaign to  suppress internet activity. In effect, the authorities are extending their control over Chinese citizens’ online lives, even if what they post is unlikely to be seen in the country.“If we give up Twitter, we are losing one of our last places to speak,” said Wang Aizhong, a human-rights activist who said the police had told him to delete messages criticizing the Chinese government.When Beijing is unable to get activists to delete tweets, others will sometimes do the job. Mr. Wang refused to take down his tweets. Then, one night last month while he was reading a book, his phone buzzed with text messages from Twitter that contained backup codes to his account.An hour later, he said, 3,000 of his tweets had been deleted. He blamed government-affiliated hackers, although those who were responsible and the methods they used could not be independently confirmed.A Twitter spokeswoman declined to comment on the government campaign.China has long policed what its citizens can see and say, including online, but the recent push shows that Beijing’s vision of internet control encompasses social media around the world. Messages on WhatsApp, which is blocked in China, have begun to appear as evidence in Chinese trials.The Chinese government has increasingly demanded that Google and Facebook take down content that officials object to even though both companies’ sites are inaccessible in China. After the exiled Chinese billionaire Guo Wengui used the platforms to lob graft accusations at top Chinese leaders, Facebook and Twitter suspended his accounts temporarily, citing user complaints and the disclosure of personal information.Twitter may be banned in China, but the platform plays an important role in political debate and the discussion of issues in the country. To access the service, a small but active community uses software to circumvent the government’s controls over what people can see online. According to an estimate based on a survey of 1,627 Chinese internet users last year by Daniela Stockmann, a professor at the Hertie School of Governance in Germany, only 0.4 percent of China’s internet users, roughly 3.2 million people, use Twitter.While it remains off limits for people in China, official media outlets like the Communist Party-controlled People’s Daily newspaper and the Xinhua news agency have used Twitter to shape perceptions of the country in the rest of the world.“On the one hand, state media takes advantage of the full features of these platforms to reach millions of people,” said Sarah Cook, a senior analyst for East Asia at Freedom House, a pro-democracy research group based in the United States. “On the other hand, ordinary Chinese are risking interrogation and jail for using these same platforms to communicate with each other and the outside world.”LinkedIn, the business networking service and one of the few American social media outlets allowed in China, has long bowed to the country’s censors. It briefly took down the Chinese accounts of Peter Humphrey, a British private investigator who was once imprisoned in China, last month and Zhou Fengsuo, a human-rights activist, this month. The company sent emails to both containing language similar to the messages it sends users when it removes posts that violate censorship rules.“What we’ve seen in recent weeks is the authorities desperately escalating the censorship of social media,” Mr. Humphrey said. “I think it’s quite astonishing that on this cloak-and-dagger basis, LinkedIn has been gagging people and preventing their comments from being seen in China.”Both accounts have been restored. In a statement, LinkedIn apologized for taking the accounts down and said it had done so by accident. “Our Trust and Safety team is updating our internal processes to help prevent an error like this from happening again,” the statement said.With Twitter, Chinese officials are targeting a vibrant platform for Chinese activists.Interviews with nine Twitter users questioned by the police and a review of a recording of a four-hour interrogation found a similar pattern: The police would produce printouts of tweets and advise users to delete either the specific messages or their entire accounts. Officers would often complain about posts that were critical of the Chinese government or that specifically mentioned Mr. Xi.The police have used threats and, sometimes, physical restraints, according to Twitter users who were questioned. Huang Chengcheng, an activist with more than 8,000 Twitter followers, said his hands and feet were manacled to a chair while he was interrogated for eight hours in Chongqing. When the inquiry was over, he signed a promise to stay off Twitter.Those pulled in for questioning do not necessarily have the biggest presence on the social network. Pan Xidian, a 47-year-old construction company employee in Xiamen with about 4,000 followers, posted a comic by a dissident cartoonist known as Rebel Pepper, along with criticism of human-rights crackdowns. In November, the police called him in for 20 hours of questioning. After being forced to delete several tweets, he was allowed to go, and he thought his ordeal was over.But officers showed up at his workplace a short time later and threw him into a car. They asked him to sign a document that said he had disturbed the social order. He complied. Then they showed him a second document, which said he would be detained. He spent the next two weeks in a cell with 10 other people, watching propaganda videos.“In this era, we certainly know fear, but I can’t control myself,” Mr. Pan said while crying during a phone interview after he was released. “We’ve been living a very suppressed life.”“We’re like lambs,” he added. “They’re taking us one after another. We have no ability to fight back.”The crackdown is unusually broad and punitive. When censoring domestic social media in the past, officials have targeted prominent users. People were questioned or detained less frequently and more haphazardly.The current push appears to be well coordinated between local and national law enforcement authorities, said Xiao Qiang, a professor at the School of Information at the University of California, Berkeley.“Actually taking nationwide action, physically calling in all of these people, we’ve never seen that before,” he said.The new approach involves broad action by China’s powerful Ministry of Public Security, which oversees law enforcement and political security. Several Twitter users said local authorities had specifically cited the internet police, a branch of the security ministry that monitors online activity. The agency, which refers to such local enforcement as “touching the ground,” was taken over last summer by a hard-liner known for a crackdown on telecom fraud in Xiamen, a city on the southeast coast.The security ministry and the Cyberspace Administration of China, which regulates the internet, did not respond to faxed requests for comment.The police have impressed upon activists that they can see posts outside China’s wall of censorship. After a four-hour grilling of a Twitter user with a small following who had complained in a post about the environment, a police officer offered him some advice. The user, who spoke on the condition of anonymity for fear of further reprisal, recorded the interrogation and provided a copy of the audio.“Delete all your tweets, and shut down your account,” the officer said. “Everything on the internet can be monitored, even the inappropriate comments in WeChat groups,” a reference to a popular Chinese messaging app.“This is truly wholehearted advice for you,” the officer added. “If this happens a second time, it will be handled differently. It will affect your parents. You are still so young. If you get married and have kids, it will affect them.”The efforts have dampened debate on Chinese-language Twitter, said Yaqiu Wang, a China researcher with Human Rights Watch, who chronicled the crackdown in November. Still, not all users have gone quietly.“Many activists want free speech,” Ms. Wang said in an interview. “Even when they’re harassed and intimidated, they’re very brave and continue to tweet. This is an act of defiance to censorship and oppression.”Li Yuan contributed reporting from Hong Kong. Qiqing Lin contributed research.

Supported bySports of The TimesBy Michael PowellCan we talk starting pitchers or, more to the point, their ritual sacrifice on the altar of Major League Baseball analytics?I put this question to Leo Mazzone, the former pitching coach for the Atlanta Braves and the custodian of one of baseball’s greatest rotations of starting pitchers: Greg Maddux, John Smoltz and Tom Glavine, Hall of Famers all.The 2018 playoffs and World Series offered a parade of twitchy managers yanking their starting pitchers after four innings, summoning a parade of faceless relievers to throw one mind-numbing fastball after another for fractions of an inning.This is spectacular for the radar gun industry, but is it watchable and good baseball?I heard Mazzone snorting on the other end of the phone line, no, no and no. “It is an embarrassment and insults the intelligence,” he said. “They are abusing pitchers and calling it smart.”Mazzone imparted this gospel to his pitchers: Trying to heave balls as fast as you can is for muscle-beach dolts. A good pitcher throws at 85 to 90 percent of effort and makes the pitch move and hit its location. Varies speeds, too. As for the notion a pitcher can last but five or six innings before batters grow wise and clobber him?Please.“A high school coach asked me, ‘Leo what do you think of analytics showing that pitchers struggle the third time through a lineup?’ I’ll tell you want that is, that’s the manager covering his (you know what),” he said.The equation guys who run most major league teams bow to holy verities: No starting pitcher should throw more than 100 pitches. Some starters should not throw as many as 70. To admire the number of wins a pitcher accumulates or to encourage him to toss a complete game is to expose yourself as a Paleolithic hunter-gatherer. Pitching is all about WHIP and FIP (I’d explain the definitions, but then our heads would hurt) and a conga line of relief pitchers.Look, on a good day I don’t drag my knuckles along the sidewalks of Flatbush, Brooklyn. I dig sabermetrics and back in the day treated Bill James annuals as religious text. I keep a three-foot-high stack of the analytics-obsessed Baseball Prospectus at home. But at risk of registering as a get-off-my-lawn crank: So much of the wisdom about pitchers is dubious.I set to thinking about this after watching my Mets spend much of November and December in a modestly lunatic attempt to trade Noah Syndergaard, one of the National League’s best starting pitchers. They appear to have failed at this self-mutilation. Now that they have retained two true aces — Syndergaard and Jacob deGrom, the Cy Young Award winner — why not stretch them out and push them to go deeper into games? What is the point in allowing an ace to pitch six innings before turning the ball over to a committee of anonymous relievers?Game 4 of the 2018 World Series presented something of a nadir when Los Angeles Dodgers Manager Dave Roberts, a bright fellow no doubt, pulled his starting pitcher after he had yielded a single hit through six and a third innings and was ahead, 4-0. The Dodgers ended up marching six relievers into that game, lost, 9-6, and exited the World Series the next day.Mazzone pulled out a few of his remaining hairs.“The greatest teacher for a pitcher is starts,” he says. “Pitch and pitch and pitch. Let a pitcher find himself.“The problem is that so many pitching coaches and managers are yes-men and don’t want to challenge their front offices.”There’s a sizable mound of statistical evidence to back such assertions. At risk of giving the quadratic dudes a seizure, I turned to Baseball Reference and selected 40 pitchers from the past half-century, men who ran the gamut from solid to superb. These are the sort of pitchers you’d expect to see in the postseason, and my list included Bobby Ojeda, Mike Torrez, Steve Avery, Tom Browning, Tom Seaver, Steve Carlton, Ferguson Jenkins and Mazzone’s troika of Hall of Famers. I examined their performances across games, from beginning to end.For most good pitchers, their worst inning was the first. Once they found a rhythm and once pitches began to crackle, they became progressively more difficult to hit. Tom Seaver’s career earned run average in the first inning was 3.75. His E.R.A. for the last three innings of a game, that dreaded third and fourth time through the batting order, stood at 2.75.So current analytic wisdom does a headstand.(By way of insane outlier, Seaver won 25 games in 1969 and helped pitch the Miracle Mets to a World Series championship. He pitched the ninth inning 17 times that season and surrendered not a single run.)This is a familiar pattern. Mike Mussina gave up fewer runs on average in the seventh, eighth and ninth innings than he did in the first three. He was at his best in the ninth inning. The best inning for Ron Darling and David Wells was the eighth. (Requisite caveat: By definition, these pitchers were having a good outing if they made it to the late innings.)If you hoped to beat Dodgers pitcher Fernando Valenzuela, you were advised to start hacking early. He had a career E.R.A. of 4.25 in the first inning. When Valenzuela was still pitching in the ninth inning, and he got there roughly 127 times in his career, his E.R.A. was 2.19.Luis Tiant, the Red Sox and Cleveland ace, was nearly as tough. He pitched just over 206 times in the ninth inning and had an E.R.A. of 2.40.Greg Maddux had a 3.23 E.R.A. in his first three innings and a 2.86 from the seventh inning through the ninth. And while he possessed a good fastball, it was not a three-digit express train. One spring training in the mid-1990s, Maddux, who in a 23-year career piled up 355 fairly meaningful wins, asked to speak with the team’s young pitchers.Mazzone nodded. Sure thing, Mad Dog, whatever you want. The coach lined up the young guys and Maddux walked over.“You know why I am a millionaire? Because I can put my fastball wherever I want to,” Maddux told them. “Do you know why I own beachfront property in L.A.? Because I can change speeds. O.K., questions?”Mazzone was not enraptured by pitch counts. He would not push pitchers to stupid extremes, but he refused to hew to limits without basis in medical fact. He had pitchers run and throw every day in between starts, and they had remarkably few injuries. In one three-year stretch, his pitchers missed a single start.“We kept track of pitches and I had a clicker,” he said, “but if Tommy Glavine gets a pop-up on a changeup, hell, I’m not counting that.”He recalled a Braves vice president by the name of Henry Aaron who offered advice about the dangers of radar gun intoxication. “Don’t worry about pure speed,” Aaron said. “You can run a jet airliner through the strike zone, and I will figure out how to rope it down the line. Locate a ball that moves at my knees, and I’m out.”All of which brings me back to the Mets, a team I’ve followed for many, often hapless, decades. Their manager, Mickey Callaway, sounds as enamored of pitch counts as his peers are. All of this seeps into the brainpans of young pitchers who labor under the impression that five or six innings constitute a day’s work.Syndergaard is a fine pitcher and susceptible to the idiocies of the age. A year ago he pumped iron in the off-season in hopes of throwing even harder than 100 miles per hour, and that season he blew a muscle in his side. He appears to accept the notion that pitching through the seventh inning lies beyond the limit of human exertion, and last season he posted a 7.88 E.R.A. in that inning.His rotation mates are no different. On the rare occasions they pitched into the seventh inning, Zack Wheeler and Steven Matz posted calamitous E.R.A.s of 5.65 and 6.35.Mazzone went to Cooperstown in 2014 for the Hall of Fame inductions of Maddux and Glavine. They got to yakking before the ceremony, and Mazzone asked what they would have done if, in the course of pitching a World Series shutout, he had come to the mound to pull them from the game.Glavine looked at him, smiled thinly and replied, “Mazz, we were going to have a fight on that mound.”

Supported byBy Timothy WilliamsKANSAS CITY, Mo. — An algorithm predicts where potholes will emerge so road crews can resurface streets before cracks appear. Dog houses outfitted with cameras and temperature controls provide people a place to leave pets while they’re on a date or at yoga. And on Main Street, if a driver parks too long, a sensor alerts the police and a ticket is issued.In recent months, Kansas City has become an unexpected destination for technology companies looking for a place to test ideas. The city’s goal: To be what it calls a living lab.Far from technology centers on the coasts, Kansas City and dozens of other cities have begun competing for federal grant dollars and tech company attention. They want to remake themselves as “smart cities,” where technology is seen as a tool to help grow, improve school systems and air quality, and make traffic move faster.“People are starting to notice us,” the mayor of Kansas City, Mo., Sly James, said. “We have people coming to town thinking there are going to be cows and tumbleweeds and coming away with a whole other idea.”Hundreds of cities, large and small, have adopted or begun planning smart cities projects. But the risks are daunting. Experts say cities frequently lack the expertise to understand privacy, security and financial implications of such arrangements. Some mayors acknowledge that they have yet to master the responsibilities that go along with collecting billions of bits of data from residents.Concerns have intensified as Kansas City prepares to expand its technology experiment from downtown to poor neighborhoods on the city’s East Side. The expansion will bring free wireless to homes, but also dozens of surveillance cameras and a gunshot detection system, and some residents worry that in the quest to be seen as forward thinking, the city may be handing off too much control to private companies and opening up residents to consequences it doesn’t fully understand.“We increasingly see every problem as a technology-related problem, so the solution is more technology,” said Ben Green, a Harvard University graduate student who studies cities and technology. “And you have cities, which are caught in this devil’s bargain, where they feel they don’t have the resources to provide the services people need, and so they make these deals with tech companies that have money, but which in the long term might not be beneficial to either them or their residents.”In Seattle, officials this year began to dismantle a network of surveillance cameras and wireless devices that the police had deemed vital in fighting crime, but that drew complaints over the network’s ability to track cellphones.Several government officials in Toronto were fired this month after they tried to rush through a large technology project proposed by a company affiliated with Google.And high-tech criminals have also presented problems: In Atlanta, hackers broke into the City Hall network this year and demanded a ransom to unlock it.Supporters of “smart cities” say that the potential is enormous and that some projects could go beyond creating efficiencies and actually save lives. Among the plans under development are augmented reality programs that could help firefighters find people trapped in burning buildings and the collection of sewer samples by robots to determine opioid use so that city services could be aimed at neighborhoods most in need.The hazards are also clear.“Cities don’t know enough about data, privacy or security,” said Lee Tien, a lawyer at the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a nonprofit organization focused on digital rights. “Local governments bear the brunt of so many duties — and in a lot of these cases, they are often too stupid or too lazy to talk to people who know.”Cities habitually feel compelled to outdo each other, but the competition has now been intensified by lobbying from tech companies and federal inducements to modernize.“There is incredible pressure on an unenlightened city to be a ‘smart city,’” said Ben Levine, executive director at MetroLab Network, a nonprofit organization that helps cities adapt to technology change.That has left Washington, D.C., and dozens of other cities testing self-driving cars and Orlando trying to harness its sunshine to power electric vehicles. San Francisco has a system that tracks bicycle traffic, while Palm Beach, Fla., uses cycling data to decide where to send street sweepers. Boise, Idaho, monitors its trash dumps with drones. Arlington, Tex., is looking at creating a transit system based on data from ride-sharing apps.Kansas City is trying to position itself as the most forward-thinking of all.It has promoted its use of technology with aggressive marketing, proclaiming itself the nation’s “smartest city.” It has hosted international conferences, offered advice to other cities, and its tech guru, Bob Bennett, has become the public face of a smart cities movement.“Cities that fail to embrace technology today, that fail to embrace a data-driven approach, those cities will be in the digital Rust Belt 20 years from now,” Mr. Bennett said.Much of Kansas City’s progress stemmed from its selection in 2011 as the first metropolitan area to get Google Fiber, an ultrafast internet and television service. Then five years ago, it was approached by Cisco Systems, the tech giant.At the time, Kansas City was digging a trench under Main Street for a streetcar line. Cisco told officials that since there would be a hole in the street anyway, the city might as well install fiber optic cable and electronic sensors to monitor traffic.The sensors, Cisco argued, would help City Hall understand how the city behaves in an unobtrusive way, and at relatively little cost.The city also built 25 kiosks along the 2.2-mile streetcar line to provide tourist information and installed public Wi-Fi. It installed surveillance cameras and LED streetlights also outfitted with video cameras.The city borrowed much of its $3.7 million portion of the cost. Sprint, which manages the Wi-Fi network, contributed about $7 million, while Cisco invested $5 million.There was no competitive bidding.The city’s downtown corridor now monitors nearly everything that happens along this stretch of road — cars, pedestrians and parking spaces. The wireless system has been used by 2.7 million people.But some results have been modest. Despite sensors linked to traffic signals, motorists have saved only an average of 37 seconds from their commutes, according to the city.And a crime location predictor with an algorithm that takes into account everything from 911 calls to weather patterns has yet to reduce assaults in the city’s entertainment district.Sprint collects data from users who log onto the wireless network, including their home ZIP codes, internet searches and location.Some of the information — including phone numbers and other potentially identifying information — is available even if one does not log on to the wireless network, city officials and data experts said.Sprint declined to discuss the data it collects or how it uses it.But the company said its work was critical in cities like Kansas City, Mo., where people want access to the latest technology. (While Kansas City, Kan., also received Google Fiber, most of the technology changes are occurring on the Missouri side of the river.)“People are ready for smart things,” said Patricia Watkins, Sprint’s director of emerging solutions. “For the first time, instead of asking why we’re doing this, they’re asking, ‘Why can’t we do this?’ It will force cities to move ahead with these things because their constituents will be asking for it.”On Kansas City’s East Side, officials hope to extend the wireless system to reach homes of about 80,000 residents along Prospect Avenue, one of the main thoroughfares in the neighborhood. Only about 40 percent of homes there have internet access.The city says it wants to transform the neighborhood, which has a high crime rate and is dotted with vacant buildings. It plans to install air quality sensors, water meters to detect leaks, a bus line, surveillance cameras and a gunshot detection system.Some residents thought the changes would bring an economic boost to the area.“I’m just elated,” said Cheryl Barnes, president of a local residents’ group. “It will provide a measure of hope to the neighborhood.”Quinton Lucas, who represents the East Side on the City Council, said while the project represented “a psychological investment in the area,” he worried about all the surveillance.“I have a concern about monitoring inner cities in a different way than other neighborhoods,” he said. “Is this going to accrue to the detriment of young black men?”Mr. Lucas said he wondered whether Kansas City was moving too fast.“When you look at the amount of change in the world — and basically we’re operating on a hunch — how are we sure if we are getting the best deal available?” he said.

Rivendale Farms outside Pittsburgh is a laboratory for applying technology to smaller farms.The milking machines cost about $200,000 each.CreditCreditRoss Mantle for The New York TimesSupported byBy Steve LohrBULGER, Pa. — About 150 Jersey cows in the rolling terrain at Rivendale Farms in Bulger, some 25 miles west of Pittsburgh, wear Fitbit-like collars that monitor their movement, eating and rumination patterns. They are milked not by humans but by robotic machines.A nearby greenhouse, about a quarter-acre in size and filled with salad-bowl crops like kale, arugula and baby carrots, is automated. The temperature, humidity and sunlight are controlled by sensors and retractable metallic screens. And soon, small robots may roam the farm’s eight acres of vegetable crops outdoors to spot disease and pluck weeds.Farming in America is increasingly a high-tech endeavor. Combines guided by GPS, drones, satellite imagery, soil sensors and supercomputers all help the nation’s food production. Yet that technology is mainly tailored for big industrial farms, where fields stretch as far as the eye can see.Rivendale Farms, which has just completed its first year of full operations, offers a glimpse of technology coming available for smaller farms.Technology for giant farms is all about increasing yields and cutting costs. For smaller farms, too, efficiency is paramount. But technology can also eliminate a lot of tedious, routine labor — a lifestyle payoff that can help persuade a younger generation to stay put on family farms rather than sell out.Smaller farms typically raise specialty crops on limited acreage. Specialty farming requires a scaled-down approach, like the small robots being developed for Rivendale by scientists at nearby Carnegie Mellon University and the expanding array of equipment from the “slow tools” movement, a group of farmers and engineers designing affordable tools for small farms.The goal at Rivendale, said Thomas Tull, the farm’s owner, is to create a “boutique, cutting-edge farm, enabled by technology, that produces great food.”Rivendale can afford its combination of cutting-edge commercial technology and science experiments because Mr. Tull is a billionaire serial entrepreneur, investor in tech-related ventures and former film producer. He is also on the board of Carnegie Mellon. He has spent several million dollars on Rivendale so far. But the plan, Mr. Tull said, is for the farm to become self-sustaining by 2020.So Rivendale can try more things at once than others can. But its efforts, experts say, are part of a broader trend among small farmers seeking to raise healthy food and livestock using less fossil fuel, fertilizer and processed feed.“We’re seeing greater use of modern technology and tools in smaller, soil-based farming, and that vision is being wholeheartedly embraced at Rivendale,” said Jack Algiere, farm director at Stone Barns Center for Food and Agriculture, a nonprofit farm in Pocantico Hills, N.Y., that has been a leading advocate for sustainable agriculture on small farms.Mr. Tull bought the land in 2015, and construction started the next year. It is now a diversified operation with milking cows, breeding cows, vegetable crops, corn for feed, chickens, even honeybees.Rivendale, including pasture land, cover crops and woods, spans 175 acres. Farming in America has been consolidating for decades, with the average size of a farm being 444 acres in 2017, according to government statistics. And more than half of the value produced by the nation’s agricultural sector is generated by a small fraction of very large farms, 2,660 acres on average.Rivendale’s milk, eggs and produce are sold to selected local restaurants and hotels. It also supplies food to the Pittsburgh Pirates and the Pittsburgh Steelers, in which Mr. Tull is a part owner.Walk into the dairy barn at Rivendale and there are no people — only cows, an automated feed system and three robotic milking machines.The Rivendale cows are milked four times a day on average, when they feel ready, compared with the traditional twice-a-day regimen when humans manage the milking. And its Jersey cows produce 15 percent more milk than the average for the breed, with a higher protein and butterfat content, said Christine Grady, general manager of Rivendale.“They eat when they want, lie down when they want and feed when they want,” Ms. Grady said. “And a happier cow produces more milk and better milk.”It takes a week or two for the cows to get accustomed to the robotic milkers and the built-in incentives, said Rodney Rankin, who leads the dairy operations. The milking stations have vanilla-flavored feed pellets, but a cow cannot just come back repeatedly for the treats. Sensors and a scale — a cow’s weight can vary by up to 75 pounds in a day — prevent cows without reasonably full udders from getting in.Once the cow is in the stall, the teats and udder are washed with little rotary brushes. Lasers scan and guide the milk suction devices onto each of the four teats. Milking time is six minutes on average. At the end, the cow is sprayed with iodine and steam to clean its udder.Robotic milkers have been available for years. But the technology has steadily improved, requiring far less human assistance than a few years ago.The machines cost about $200,000 each. Without them, and an automated feeding system, the milking barn at Rivendale would require five workers instead of being mainly overseen by one, Ms. Grady said.The Rivendale robotic milking machines are made by Lely, a Dutch company and a leader in the industry. In some European countries, up to 30 percent of the cows are milked by machine, while in the United States the share is about 2 percent, estimates Mathew Haan, a dairy technology expert at Pennsylvania State University’s agriculture extension program.The gap, Mr. Haan said, is largely explained by more generous programs that support milk prices as well as higher labor costs than in America. These two factors have encouraged investment in automation in Europe.In the United States, even large-herd producers with thousands of cows in California, which have been labor-intensive operations, are beginning to try robotic milking machines. That is driven partly by changing immigration policies that may create a shortage of farm workers. But to date, the main market has been smaller operations with 120 to 240 milking cows, said Steve Fried, Lely’s North American sales manager.George Kantor, a senior systems scientist at Carnegie Mellon’s robotics institute, is leading the effort at Rivendale to develop “scouting robots” to identify disease and weeds in the vegetable field, and then send smartphone alerts if there is a problem.His team did field work and collected data in the fall, then shifted to a university lab for the winter. Computer vision and machine learning, Mr. Kantor said, will be deployed to distinguish healthy plants from diseased ones and weeds.A next step would be to get rid of weeds. Organic farming avoids pesticides. And digging up or pulling weeds, Mr. Kantor said, would require hand-like grasping and holding, a more daunting robotic task, where progress has been slower.Some technology at Rivendale is more neat hack than high tech. Susanna Meyer, the head of crop production, is fond of a greens cutter whose engine is a battery-powered electric drill, and a small electric tiller called the Tillie — one of the slow-tools implements.Michael McGowen, a former staff scientist at Los Alamos National Laboratory, bought a farm in Oregon a decade ago, started growing vegetables and found there were no affordable tools for small farms. So he designed his own including the Tillie, whose basic model sells for $495, and set up a business, Carts and Tools, in Corvallis, Ore.Johnny’s Selected Seeds, a leading distributor of the small-scale farming tools, has seen that business increase fivefold over the last 10 years, said Adam Lemieux, the company’s product manager for tools and supplies.To most longtime farmers, A.I. stands for artificial insemination, not digital wizardry. But a new generation of family farmers is welcoming robotic assistants and smartphone apps.“They have a different mind-set, and they are all trying to figure out a path ahead for their family farms and where technology fits in,” said Jeff Ainslie, a vice president of Red Barn Consulting, which advises family farmers.Scott Flory is one of them. After earning his degree in dairy science from Virginia Tech, Mr. Flory returned to his family farm in Dublin, Va., in 2009, with ideas for modernizing its operations.Since then, the farm has installed four of the Lely robotic milkers, equipped the cows with activity trackers and doubled the number of its milking cows to 240, without adding workers. The farm remains almost entirely a family affair, run by him, his wife, Laura, and his parents, Dale and Janet.“I wouldn’t be in the dairy business today without this stuff,” said Mr. Flory, who is 30.At Rivendale, Mr. Tull, the owner, has no doubt that advancing technology will transform smaller farms someday.But after closely observing the operations at Rivendale this past year, he said, “You come away with a tremendous respect for farmers, and that the work is hard and complex. The key is getting the right mix of art and science.”Follow Steve Lohr on Twitter: @SteveLohr.

The 22-year-old English musician Jordan Cardy sends up authority and celebrates slackerdom in songs that combine the energy of punk with the storytelling of hip-hop.Jordan Cardy, a 22-year-old English musician who records as Rat Boy, writes songs that combine 1970s punk, 1990s hip-hop and 2000s pop-punk.CreditCreditVicky Grout for The New York TimesSupported byBy Jon CaramanicaCHELMSFORD, England — On a farm 15 minutes north of downtown Chelmsford, a smallish Essex commuter city 30 minutes by train from London, Jordan Cardy has begun turning his 1990s dreams into reality.A couple of months ago, the 22-year-old musician who records as Rat Boy rented a huge empty warehouse a short walk to a lovely little stream and a slightly longer walk to a small black sign leaning against a decayed wall that reads FARM TOILET. Here, slowly, he, his father, and brother have been building out the raw space into a place — inspired by the Beastie Boys’ old G-Son Studios in Los Angeles — where he can work, and also play.A few days before Christmas, it was mostly empty save for a roughly fashioned studio. On one wall was a Public Enemy “Fear of a Black Planet” poster. On a shelf was an autographed vinyl copy of the Beastie Boys’ “Hello Nasty.” On the center table, an old issue of the Beasties’ publication Grand Royal and some obscure graffiti magazines. Up against the wall, a small-scale screen printing rig and several of Cardy’s ghoulishly realistic illustrations. Sitting on a pallet under a blanket was an Amek Einstein console, the same kind that the Dust Brothers used to work on, that Cardy bought for about 6,000 pounds on the internet from Peru. It’s the most money he’s ever spent on anything, he said, but he still wasn’t sure it worked.This month Cardy will release the second Rat Boy album, “Internationally Unknown,” a high-energy collision of punk convulsion and hip-hop storytelling full of raucously fun, sharp-tongued songs about slackerdom, resistance and disorderly joy. It’s shaped by late 1970s punk with flickers of dub, nods to 1990s hip-hop (and also the early 2000s English rapper the Streets), and embraces the musical exuberance of 2000s pop-punk.Which is to say, it is an extremely of-the-moment amalgam, refusing to draw distinctions between genres. It’s also part of a long continuum of British punk that looks for kinship in black music and part of a wider re-engagement with the 1990s as source material.[Never miss a pop music story: Get our weekly newsletter, Louder.]The 1990s are the leading touchstone for Cardy, who has studied the era with loving devotion and built a specific, refined aesthetic from it: “It’s a bunch of people that are around my age making something for themselves. I love the way stuff looks — making their own magazines, the music, being motivated to put stuff out,” he said, slumped in a chair wearing a Supreme bottle cap T-shirt, his hair pink and scraggly. “They did everything right, but did they know they were doing it right?”“I kind of see Jordan as the nexus of what was happening in the ’90s when punk and hip-hop were blowing up,” said Brett Gurewitz, the founder and chief executive of Epitaph Records, which is releasing “Internationally Unknown” via its Hellcat imprint. “Rat Boy is the embodiment of that time.”Similarly, Cardy, too, has been figuring things out by trial and error. For a young person gravitating toward art and music, Chelmsford — he grew up in this city of around 100,000, and hasn’t lived elsewhere — was an unremarkable place to be. Mostly, Cardy hung out with friends at the city’s lone skate park. When he became curious about music, YouTube was his university. “I used to watch thousands of videos,” he said.Cardy’s natural artistic curiosity was buttressed by a creeping sense of outsiderness. “When I was in school when I was a kid, I did feel like there were not, like, people that were into the same stuff,” he said. “Everyone was into what was happening around here, and I’m just liking [expletive] that happened 20 years ago.”He became increasingly inspired after seeing the early success of King Krule, the London singer and songwriter who, in the early 2010s, when he was still a teenager, broke through with a fascinating punk-jazz hybrid: “It really motivated me to see someone like that doing it at that age.”When Cardy finally began posting his self-produced songs to SoundCloud, he began emailing the links as widely as he could. One of the first people in the music business he met was Drew McConnell, who plays bass in the British band Babyshambles (which is fronted by Pete Doherty) and was introduced to Cardy’s music by an intern at his publishing company. Before long, McConnell was setting up management and label meetings for Cardy, who was sleeping on his sofa.[Here are 10 more artists to watch in 2019.]“He had obviously listened to a lot of records,” McConnell said. “The way he would sing would remind me of Elvis Costello, or Robert Smith from the Cure. But at the same time he’s a huge hip-hop fan.”Cardy signed to Parlophone — home to Babyshambles and also Coldplay — and began working on his first album, “Scum,” a loose and exciting collection of songs that range from punk to dub to hip-hop. (An early version of one of them was sampled on Kendrick Lamar’s “Lust,” from his 2017 album “DAMN.”)“That’s what I thought a first record is, I thought like it’s all over the place,” Cardy said. “It was just guessing.” On the album’s deluxe version, the songs are interwoven with skits, in part because Cardy felt like the songs themselves didn’t tell a consistent story.“When the record was done it was kind of like, ‘You need to have a single’ at the end,” he said. And while he obliged, “I released two songs as singles that are [expletive] in my opinion, trying to write a pop song.”McConnell joked that a mainstream record label signing Cardy was like the government capturing a disruptive hacker “and being like, ‘you work for us now.’”For his second album, Cardy knew he wanted to tell a more consistent story, and was introduced to Tim Armstrong, of the California street-punk legends Operation Ivy and Rancid and the punk-hip-hop hybrid pioneers Transplants, and also Gurewitz’s partner in Hellcat. When they first spoke on the phone, the first thing they agreed on was tempo: 170 bpm, fast enough for punk mayhem but also, at half time, a comfortable in-the-pocket pace for rapping.Cardy went to Los Angeles and spent six weeks working with Armstrong at the Boat, once the studio of the Dust Brothers. (John King of the Dust Brothers also worked on the new album.) They recorded live takes, then chopped up and sampled the results. The guitars are hard-charging and dirty, and the rapping and singing is delivered with a blend of sneer and ennui: On “I Wanna Skate,” he’s yelling in the most casual manner, “You want it now? I wanna wait!/You want a Benz? I wanna skate!”In person, Cardy is gentle and soft-edged. But on both his first and second records, his attitude is consistent: a permanently extended middle finger to authority, and a robust sense of working class agitation. His best songwriting is in a narrative style that he learned listening to hip-hop: Slick Rick’s “Children’s Story,” Prince Paul’s “A Prince Among Thieves,” Too Short.AFTER TALKING FOR a while in his new studio, Cardy hopped in a van driven by his guitar tech, Tuck. (Chelmsford is a small enough city that it was Tuck who sold 12-year-old Cardy his first guitar.) They headed over to Cardy’s family’s house, where the yard overflowed with half-finished projects belonging to his dad, Brett, who does fabrication work on automobiles and other vehicles.It was Brett who introduced a 6-year-old Cardy to the first Transplants album. And it was Brett’s example of making something from nothing that Cardy identifies as the germ of his own D.I.Y. instincts.Until he was around 18, Cardy assumed he’d become a graphic designer, or maybe a tattoo artist. Some of his earliest art — inspired by the cars his father worked on, and the ones they raced on weekends — was in the style of Ed Roth, the hot rod artist. When he was young, art and music were always commingled; he’d have Myspace pages for bands with song art but no songs. He still does all the artwork for his projects — “I always thought you do everything yourself,” he said — films wild CKY-style videos with his friends, and also has a budding streetwear line, Scum.His father wasn’t home, so Cardy arranged to meet him at the local garage where he was working for the day. On the way, he pointed out a lone Rat Boy graffiti tag on the back of a road sign near a roundabout. A few minutes later he found his father jawing away with a couple of car-customizer friends.Brett is salty, profane, thick-skinned — a bruiser to Cardy’s anxious artist. But Brett also supports Cardy’s flights of creative fancy. The Burberry tartan-painted car from Cardy’s early music videos was done by Brett (and part of it is in Cardy’s warehouse, along with some other vehicles Brett chopped-and-remixed).Their conversation was amiable, a little punchy. Cardy recalled how Brett never pushed him to pursue things he didn’t feel strongly about, like schoolwork: “It’s always been, like, do what you want to do.” They spoke about Cardy’s music and the unlikeliness of his performance intensity, joked about living in close quarters and celebrated hating authority. Recalling when Cardy was first learning to race cars, Brett explained his hands-off parenting philosophy, which felt like the foundation for all of Cardy’s subsequent life choices.“Just let him crash,” Brett said. “He ain’t going to do it twice.”

Supported byBy Chris Stanford(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning,We start today with Democrats’ efforts to end the partial government shutdown, and a look at this morning’s jobs report. And it’s Friday, so there’s a new news quiz.Hours after Democrats took control of the House on Thursday, representatives approved two measures that would reopen government agencies that have been closed for nearly two weeks over a budget impasse. The votes were nearly all along party lines.Both pieces of legislation are almost certain to die in the Senate. The majority leader, Mitch McConnell, has said he wouldn’t bring to a vote measures that President Trump doesn’t support, and the House bills don’t include the $5 billion in border wall funding Mr. Trump is demanding. The new speaker, Representative Nancy Pelosi, calls such financing “an immorality.”In the Senate: Mr. McConnell is facing pressure from members of his party to resolve the stalemate. On Thursday, Senator Cory Gardner of Colorado became the first Republican in the chamber to publicly call for an end to the shutdown — with or without wall funding.Closer look: The current spending impasse seems different from ones during the Clinton and Obama eras, our chief Washington correspondent writes. There’s little sense of urgency on either side about finding a resolution. Voices: The shutdown has left 800,000 federal workers either furloughed or working without pay. “They have to realize that this affects everyday people,” said a corrections officer at a federal prison in Florida. “It’s like a political chess game that they’re playing, and we seem to be pawns.”The 2019 freshman class in the House is the most racially diverse and most female ever. It includes the first Native American congresswomen, the first Muslim congresswomen and the first Palestinian-American woman. Meet all of the new lawmakers in the 116th Congress.Watch: Nancy Pelosi, who in 2007 became the first woman elected speaker, reclaimed the gavel on Thursday. In her speech, she celebrated the diversity in the House.The Daily: In today’s episode, one of our congressional reporters discusses the scene on Thursday.Revenue warnings this week from Apple and Delta Air Lines suggest that the U.S. economy and corporate profits are slowing more than expected, in part because of the trade dispute with China.Many companies will be reporting fourth-quarter results in the coming weeks, and the chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, Kevin Hassett, said on Thursday that there could be a torrent of bad news.For you: If the recent market turmoil makes you want to flee — or shift your 401(k) into cash — that’s understandable. It’s also a bad idea, our senior economics correspondent writes.Today: The U.S. economy added 312,000 jobs in December, the Labor Department reported today, far more than analysts expected. The unemployment rate rose to 3.9 percent from 3.7 percent.From Opinion: Apple’s announcement about missing its revenue targets suggests the current wave of innovation is waning, our columnist writes in an Op-Ed.Paul Whelan, the security chief of an international auto parts manufacturer, loved to travel around Russia and was in contact on social media with ordinary citizens there, including retired members of the military.On Thursday, the Russian authorities charged Mr. Whelan, 48, with espionage. The U.S. government refused to publicly discuss Mr. Whelan’s status in detail, but former C.I.A. officers said they didn’t think he was a spy.Why it matters: Mr. Whelan’s arrest comes after a Russian woman, Maria Butina, pleaded guilty last month in Washington to conspiring to act as a foreign agent. Current and former officials said it was possible Mr. Whelan was seized to exchange him for Ms. Butina.Vicente Zambada Niebla was groomed from an early age to take control of the Sinaloa drug cartel. But his lawyers said that he secretly worked for years as a spy for the Drug Enforcement Administration, providing information about his rivals in exchange for running his business freely.On Thursday, he described in detail to a New York courtroom the workings of the drug-trafficking empire of his father’s former partner, Joaquín Guzmán Loera, known as El Chapo. Travel advisory for China: The State Department warned U.S. citizens on Thursday that they could face arbitrary detention if they travel to China. The advisory comes after the recent arrest of a Chinese executive in Canada at the request of the U.S. Subway reprieve: Plans for a 15-month shutdown of the L train tunnel between Manhattan and Brooklyn were abruptly halted on Thursday by Gov. Andrew Cuomo. The new project would keep full train service during weekdays and close just one of the tunnel’s two tubes on nights and weekends. Hotel hacking: Marriott International said this morning that the number of people affected by a recent security breach was 383 million, not 500 million as previously thought. But for the first time it conceded that its Starwood hotel unit didn’t encrypt the passport numbers of roughly five million guests.Snapshot: Above, a snow-covered Grand Canyon on Thursday. The national park in Arizona is among those that have been affected by the partial government shutdown, although it remains accessible to visitors.In memoriam: Herb Kelleher helped reshape the airline industry by combining low fares with better customer service at Southwest Airlines. He died on Thursday at 87.News quiz: Did you follow the headlines this week? Test yourself.One woman, 52 places: Jada Yuan spent 2018 traveling to each destination on our annual 52 Places to Go list. Almost 75,000 miles later, she offers seven lessons from a year on the road. No. 1: A year is short.Late-night comedy: The hosts are either off or in reruns this week. Our roundup will return.What we’re reading: This piece from Wired. Randy Archibold, a deputy sports editor, says the “engrossing story of a highly coveted interstellar rock that crash landed in the Peruvian highlands blends an old fashioned treasure hunt with very complicated questions of science, indigenous sovereignty, greed and modernity.”Cook: Roasted squash with turmeric-ginger chickpeas. Perfect with a scattering of pomegranate seeds for color and crunch.See: The final play by the English playwright Sarah Kane, “4:48 Psychosis,” reimagined as a chamber opera. It’s in New York City as part of the Prototype: Opera/Theater/Now festival, which opens on Saturday. Philip Venables, the composer, wants listeners to appreciate “joy and love and good things in our lives more.”Read: These 11 books are recommended by our editors, including “Insurrecto” by Gina Apostol.Watch: The Golden Globes at 8 p.m. Eastern on Sunday on NBC. Will Lady Gaga take home an award for “A Star Is Born”? Will Christian Bale’s transformation into Dick Cheney for “Vice” bring home the gold? Our columnist Kyle Buchanan has predictions.Smarter Living: Grudges can be good, by creating space for you to acknowledge that something bad happened, and that it matters. Try redefining “grudge” as an experience to learn from.We also have tips on getting the most from a health savings account, and have four simple words to help you live well.Some of us are still sorting through the year-end “best of” lists. Notably, many video game lists included a new release with roots in 1984: Tetris Effect.It features a modern visual and sonic experience, including an acclaimed virtual-reality mode. But its core is the same gameplay that a Russian programmer, Alexey Pajitnov, created in his original title, Tetris.In that version — and in more than 200 subsequent official releases — seven shapes (configurations of four squares, which the company calls Tetriminos) stream one by one from the top of the screen. The player seeks to organize them to fill horizontal rows, which then clear from the field of play. The game ends when uncleared areas fill the playing grid. (Because of Soviet-era contracts, Mr. Pajitnov only began to get Tetris royalties in 1996.)A report in The Times in 1988 said players found it “surprisingly addictive.”That has been borne out. Players report seeing the Tetriminos away from the screen, including while dreaming.The phenomenon’s name? The Tetris Effect.That’s it for this briefing. Have a good weekend.— ChrisThank youTo Aisha Harris for filling in on cultural ideas while Eleanor Stanford was away, and Kenneth R. Rosen, who’s heading off for a bit, for Smarter Living ideas. Brian Hoerst, a video game enthusiast who provides publishing support in our London newsroom, wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about the scene on Capitol Hill as Democrats took control of the House.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Chicago football team (5 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • The Times created a reporting group dedicated exclusively to climate coverage in 2017. An earlier version of this briefing misstated one of the historical distinctions of the new Congress. It includes the first Palestinian-American woman to be elected, not the first Palestinian-American.Chris Stanford is based in London and writes the U.S. version of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles a weekly news quiz. He was previously a producer for the desktop home page and mobile site, helping to present The New York Times’s news report to readers. Before joining The Times in 2013, he was an editor and designer at The Washington Post and other news organizations.  @stanfordc 

Supported byCritic’s NotebookBy James PoniewozikThe year 2018 ended with a TV event that offered multiple resolutions. The year 2019 is beginning with the anniversary of a TV series that, famously, left us with no resolution at all.“Bandersnatch,” the new interactive — episode? movie? game? — of “Black Mirror” on Netflix, and “The Sopranos,” which began 20 years ago Jan. 10, are products of two different TV eras. The former lets the viewer direct the story (sort of) through a series of choices. The latter was the work of a creator who resisted catering to his audience and ended his series on a big, fat question mark.But as different as the two works are, they’re oddly complementary. Each is an example of the tension between two ways of seeing fiction. Is a story a puzzle to be solved or a mystery to be pondered?“Bandersnatch,” released Dec. 28, is full of tricks. It allows you to control Stefan (Fionn Whitehead), a video game designer in 1984 creating his own choose-your-path game. Along the way (limited spoilers ahead), you can learn codes that release mysteries from a vault. You can kill your father, or not. Somewhere, there’s a 1980s-style console game you can unlock. And after you reach an ending — most of them unhappy — you can try for another.But the biggest trick “Bandersnatch” pulls off is to convince its audience that it offers more possibilities than other stories do. In fact, it offers far fewer.Every story — be it a novel, movie or TV show — is full of forking paths: points at which characters could have chosen differently and events could have unfolded differently. In a linear story, you can never know any of these possibilities, and therefore they are infinite. The fact that one can only go forward and never know what might have been is part of what gives a story heft and poignancy.The same is true in life. Living with regret is why we have entire spiritual practices devoted to letting go of the past and the unborn futures and accepting the moment.But the moment can be unsatisfying. It can be infuriating. It can tease you with the thought of a better moment, somewhere on an alternative line of reality. You want to reach it. You want a do-over. You want to know what would have happened.This has been the idea behind stories like “Groundhog Day” and “Sliding Doors.” (In the Netflix series “Russian Doll,” coming in February, the protagonist, played by Natasha Lyonne, keeps reliving variations on the last day of her life.)“Bandersnatch” literalizes this idea: Go back, do something different, get a different result. (Fans on Reddit have already mapped out the branching and conditional options of the story in massive flowcharts.) Repeat your actions and you get, generally, the same outcome.There’s an egocentric fallacy in a choose-your-own-adventure: that you alone, represented by the protagonist, have volition and the ability to change your decisions. You are the special one. You have choices; you, in any moment, might do a number of things. Everyone else, however, is an automaton character, answering a given input with a predetermined — and replicable — output.That’s a fiction itself. You might make different choices if you could relive a key scene from your life. But so might your parents, your lovers, your boss, your dog. Taking one different action would not guarantee a certain outcome in life. But in “Bandersnatch” it does. By quantifying the resolutions, “Bandersnatch” limits them.“Bandersnatch” is not unaware of the limits of interactive storytelling; it is at its best when it has fun with them. In one ending, where Stefan produces the most successful version of his game, he explains his secret: “I’d been trying to give the player too much choice,” he tells his therapist. “Now they’ve got the illusion of free will, but really I decide the ending.”Still, like all games, “Bandersnatch” has ideas coded into it. Chief among them is the fantasy that life can be gamified, that the uncertainty can be hacked out of it, that taking a different turn in the past (you learned piano! we nominated Bernie!) would have one, and only one, determinable outcome.“Bandersnatch” can be fun, if you’re entranced by its puzzle structure, or if you’ve always believed TV episodes would be better if only you could spend hours grinding through them again in order to watch 45 seconds of new footage.But it doesn’t make for much of a story. This is partly because the core plot is uninspired; Stefan is a struggling genius with a foundational trauma (the death of his mother, which you get to relive umpteen times).[Read more about how “Bandersnatch” came to be here.]More important, Stefan isn’t much of a character because he can’t be — he’s a vehicle. You’re making decisions that are not determined by what he wants or who he is but by your desire to see more cool things happen. (“Bandersnatch” nods at this in a thread where Stefan becomes aware he’s being controlled, another meta wink that acknowledges the flaw but doesn’t make it better.)Does this make “Bandersnatch” bad? Well, it’s neat. It’s occasionally genuinely moving. But it’s not haunting in the way that comes from reaching the end of a story and realizing that the only “What now?” answer you get will have to come from you.It might have been more compelling, in a perverse, Banksy-an way, to create a version of “Bandersnatch” that ran exactly once for every viewer and then deleted itself. You’d get the ending you got. You’d compare with your friends. You’d wonder if anyone you knew — anyone at all — had unlocked the happiest result. You’d have to accept never knowing.BUT A LOT OF PEOPLE really hate not knowing. For proof, we have the return of “The Sopranos,” and with it, the revival of the argument over its famous final cut to black as the mob boss Tony Soprano sits with his family at a diner.The debate will likely be reignited by a quote from the series’s creator, David Chase, in the new book “The Sopranos Sessions” by Matt Zoller Seitz and Alan Sepinwall. In an interview, Chase refers in passing to the last moments of “The Sopranos” as “that death scene.”He doesn’t even realize he’s said it, or what it implies, until Seitz points it out, upon which Chase curses and says he was referring to an earlier ending idea, in which Tony died at a meeting with another mobster.If the years since the show’s finale in 2007 have taught me anything, it’s that a certain set of fans will analyze that snippet like it were the love child of the Warren Report and the Steele Dossier. Did Chase spill the goods? Or did he simply add another layer of could-have-been before returning us to the ambiguous status quo antipasto?I will submit, probably pleasing no one, that it doesn’t matter. It wouldn’t matter even if David Chase held a news conference tomorrow and announced that Tony sleeps with the fishes, and it would not matter if he changed his mind five years later and declared that Tony was eating onion rings at that moment in New Jersey.Maybe Chase intended a specific thing by that cut to black. Maybe he didn’t. He certainly could have punctuated the ending with an unambiguous hail of bullets if he had wanted. (No one questions whether Bobby Baccalà is dead.)But once Chase, like any creator, ended his creation, it was loosed into the world and became everyone’s property.This does not sit well with some fans, who have marshaled batteries of evidence and relaunched the argument every time Chase has opened his mouth. (The “Tony’s dead” camp seems to be more vocal than “Tony’s alive,” if only because they’re out to prove an ending rather than the absence of one.)To insist that the ending of “The Sopranos” is a puzzle with one correct solution is to crave a “Bandersnatch”-type certainty: that Tony went down a certain path on his flowchart and reached a point where only one outcome was possible, only one answer is correct.Fans today have been trained to expect answers. They’ve watched series, like “Westworld,” that structure themselves as riddles and invite sleuthing. They’ve seen authors like J.K. Rowling dispense ex post facto addendums to their novels long after the presses rolled.To this mind-set, when there is no fact that can’t be deduced or retconned or cleared up in a prequel, there must be only one definitive solution — and it’s in David Chase’s head; he just needs to spill the damn beans.But you won’t get that in this world. In this world, we fight it out. I have a dog in the fight as much as anyone: To me, ending “The Sopranos” on Tony dying would have been a bad, uncharacteristic move. It would slap a typical mob-story finish on a show that was anything but typical, a just deserts ending on a show that operated on the belief, as Chase once put it, that “crime does pay.”That’s what I think! But I don’t know the truth any more than you do. The ending of “The Sopranos” creates an atmosphere of tension in which Tony could die, or not. Then it leaves you without certainty; it leaves you knowing that you could die and never see it coming; it leaves you to wonder what ending you were hoping for and why.You might see it differently, and someone else might differently still, and no Redditor will ever beat the final boss level and unlock the answer. We all just have to argue and second-guess and marinate on that black screen until our own lights go out.We’ve got a word for that kind of fiction: interactive.

Personal finance luminaries and everyday investors share lessons from the late Vanguard founder. John Bogle at Vanguard’s headquarters in 2007.CreditCreditBill Cramer/The Wonderful MachineSupported byBy Ron Lieber and Tara Siegel BernardSo many people have John Bogle stories.For some, it is a chance encounter at a conference and a whispered word of advice. For others, it is a formal meeting. In one case, it was an airplane day trip and train ride just to meet the man. Many others never met him, but remember the moment his investment and life philosophies clicked, and suddenly thrust their minds into focus.When Mr. Bogle, the Vanguard founder who popularized the low-cost index mutual fund and helped put billions more dollars in the pockets of millions of people, died on Wednesday at the age of 89, he inspired an outpouring of memories.These are the stories of those who learned from Mr. Bogle, a man so many knew simply as Jack — no last name required.We may never know how many people were able to leave the full-time work force early after following Mr. Bogle’s instructions, but Christopher DeMers was one of them.His salary from working in marketing for Intel and good savings habits helped him retire at 51, but so did a big pivot he made years earlier. After encountering Mr. Bogle’s writing, he went from having all of his money in a single, actively managed mutual fund to diversifying his holdings among many Vanguard index funds. Having worked in technology as that industry’s stocks climbed skyward in the 1990s, Mr. DeMers could have easily talked himself into the delusion that he had some special insight. But he resisted the urge, as Mr. Bogle counseled investors who thought they could outsmart Wall Street. “If I don’t really know what I’m doing,” Mr. DeMers, 63, said, “I’m not going to beat the market in the long run.”Mellody Hobson was a young executive at the mutual fund company Ariel Investments when her boss, John Rogers, took her on a field trip. They hopped a flight from Chicago to New York, then made their way to the train station to catch John Bogle during the only time he had to spare: a train ride to Philadelphia.Then Mr. Rogers hit Mr. Bogle with his opening line: He really wanted Ms. Hobson to meet a legend like Mr. Bogle because she was going to be president of Ariel by the time she was 30. She was taken aback — it was the first she’d heard such a forecast. (It actually took her until she was 31.) As they chugged through New Jersey, Ms. Hobson came face to face with a financial legend — if nominal competitor — who didn’t care about his own bottom line. “What I felt most of all was that his overriding North Star was caring about the customer,” she said. “And wanting what is best for the customer, that’s what I wanted for Ariel clients.”Harold Evensky was an early recruit in the growing army of financial planners and investment advisers who make money only through the fees that clients pay them directly, no commissions or kickbacks. Many adopted the Vanguard style of investing — low investment costs and simple index funds.That philosophy leads to interesting conversations.“Occasionally, an investor will say, ‘I need X percent return to meet my goals,’” Mr. Evensky said. “While that may be a true statement, market returns will be what they are, not what an investor may believe they need. Jack always reminded us that we needed to be realistic in our expectations.”Mr. Evensky, who met Mr. Bogle several times over the years, spoke to us via email because he was on a cruise ship between Los Angeles and Honolulu. He could afford the trip, he said, in part because of the long-term planning that Mr. Bogle helped inspire.Jonathan Clements, who spent two decades at The Wall Street Journal preaching the virtues of low-cost investing, said that it was easy to forget Vanguard’s innovation came in two parts.The first is obvious: Vanguard customers paid less to own their investments than customers at other mutual funds. But people miss the second part: Mr. Bogle set Vanguard up so the company was owned by its funds, which were owned by their shareholders. That kept it from needing to raise fees to satisfy an aggressive profit target.“It was a competitive advantage that nobody else could match,” said Mr. Clements, who met Mr. Bogle perhaps 20 times over the years.And those low fees added up to bigger gains. “Jack fought that battle for decades and decades,” said Mr. Clements, the author of “From Here to Financial Happiness” and editor of humbledollar.com. “And lesser mortals would have given up far earlierTrue Confidence Barbara Roper, the director of investor protection for the Consumer Federation of America, said Mr. Bogle didn’t just bring low-cost investments to the average person — he ran Vanguard for the benefit of investors.“There has been thinly veiled resentment toward Bogle from other mutual fund leaders over the years because of his focus on reducing costs, which was a direct threat to their bottom line,” said Ms. Roper, who met him once, when she was seated next to him at a dinner. “He always cared more about that vision — how the industry should be run — than making friends in the industry. Of course, he was rewarded with a following that was cultlike in its devotion.”The cultists call themselves the Bogleheads, a group of like-minded investors who consider Mr. Bogle the spiritual leader of their financial lives.Each year, the Bogleheads hold a conference. And Christine Benz, the director of personal finance at Morningstar, has interviewed him at each one for the past decade. She called him the conscience of the financial services industry.“His consistent belief that all investors deserve a fair shake was a core principle that I incorporated into my work and shaped my career path,” she said. “You listen to Jack Bogle and you think, ‘I want to be on this guy’s team.’ Whatever he is talking about, this is the right thing to do for people.”So strong was Mr. Bogle’s belief, she said, that it remained firmly instilled in Vanguard long after he had given up control. And once investors convert to his ethos of simplicity and thrift, it’s for life. “Investors come around to Vanguard, and then they never leave,” she said.Jon Stein met Mr. Bogle roughly a decade ago, as a student at Columbia Business School beginning to plot what would become Betterment, a robo-adviser that builds portfolios for customers.Mr. Bogle was on campus to promote a book, and Mr. Stein stood in line for 20 minutes to have his copy signed. Mr. Stein seized the chance to share his best pitch for Betterment, which, in his eyes, would augment Mr. Bogle’s favored index investments with low-cost, automated portfolio advice.Mr. Bogle listened and told Mr. Stein he would help a lot of people. Inside the book, Mr. Bogle wrote, “Stay the course!”“He could have written that in everyone’s book,” said Mr. Stein, chief executive of Betterment, which opened to customers in 2010. “But when he wrote it to me, it meant that we were onto something.”They met again years later at Mr. Bogle’s invitation. Mr. Stein arrived at what looked like a professorial grandparent’s study, and was shocked at how much Mr. Bogle had prepared for their meeting, marking up a stack of materials about Betterment.“We are standing on the shoulders of Jack,” Mr. Stein said. “We would not be here, Betterment would not exist, without his example with the business he started.”  When Ramit Sethi won a pile of scholarship money for college, he invested some of it in the stock market. He lost big, so he began to learn.“Going through Wall Street is like playing a video game on the hardest level,” he said. “Someone is out to get you, and you don’t even understand it.”He soon stumbled on the writings and speeches of Mr. Bogle. “He spoke in a very plain way,” Mr. Sethi said. “And it was heresy what he was saying, while having the courage to go up against a multibillion-dollar industry.”When Mr. Sethi decided to make a career in advice about the psychology of money and career strategies, he began with his own bold promise in the title of his first book: “I Will Teach You to Be Rich.” “I came out swinging,” he said. It was a New York Times best-seller. And on his book tour, Mr. Bogle received him in his office.Carl Richards writes the Sketch Guy column for The New York Times. He never met Mr. Bogle, but found inspiration in his life’s work. He offered this sketch, and the words below.Making something simple sounds easy. Turns out it’s not.The world is full of simple hacks that are not even worth the hashtag often applied to them, but the real priceless jewels of simplicity, as Mr. Bogle once put it, are uncovered only after toiling about in the maddening nuance of complexity.You consider your options. Listen to counterarguments. Push some edges.My job is to find those jewels of simplicity and share them as sketches. Every once in a while, I get it right. And when I do it’s because John Bogle, he of the elegant and downright simple index fund, gave me permission. I just have to do the work of cutting through the complexity first. The ethos of the financial services industry was far different when Manisha Thakor began her career 25 years ago. “The drumbeat on Wall Street was Gordon Gekko’s painfully memorable mantra of ‘Greed is good,’” said Ms. Thakor, now vice president of financial wellbeing at Brighton Jones, a wealth management firm. “‘More’ was the word of the decade.” And the most powerful lesson she may have learned from Mr. Bogle — whom she had heard speak at a variety of events over the years — was the concept of “enough.” “Enough” was also the title of one of his books, her personal favorite, and the idea underpinning Mr. Bogle’s financial and personal way of life.She called indexing the financial manifestation of the idea. “It’s the notion that accepting your fair share of the market’s return over the long run will do you just fine,” she said.But “enough” was also the mark of man who worked for the benefit of others, rather than himself. “What is often missed when speaking about Jack’s legacy,” she said, “is the way in which this concept of ‘enough’ also shaped his outlook on the way to live a life of meaning, rooted in character.”Ron Lieber is the Your Money columnist and author of “The Opposite of Spoiled.” He previously helped develop the personal finance web site FiLife and wrote for The Wall Street Journal, Fast Company and Fortune.  @ronlieber • Facebook Tara Siegel Bernard covers personal finance. Before joining The Times in 2008, she was deputy managing editor at FiLife, a personal finance website, and an editor at CNBC. She also worked at Dow Jones and contributed regularly to The Wall Street Journal.  @tarasbernard 

Supported byBy Janet MorrisseyWhen 47-year-old Chris Petrock purchased a three-bedroom, three-story home in Norwalk, Conn., last March, he decided to make it a smart one — where he could control the lights, refrigerator, thermostat, televisions, security cameras and everything in between — with the sound of his voice or a click on his smartphone.Some friends and family members were skeptical. “I think a lot of my friends are kind of scared of it,” he said. But he pressed ahead, purchasing a package of Samsung smart appliances and other gadgets; only the installation of the security alarm system required a technician’s help.He said he likes checking his home remotely from his phone during the day. “I watch my dog. I like to see what she’s doing.” And he uses the touch-screen and Samsung’s Bixby voice assistant on his smart refrigerator to play music, order an Uber, ask for recipes, and even see who’s ringing his doorbell.But it wasn’t the coolness factor that motivated Mr. Petrock. It was all about boosting the value of his home.“It is the wave of the future. I know a lot of families will want it,” he said. “For resale value, it’s great!”Indeed, 59 percent of American adults surveyed in 2018 said they were interested in using a smart home device, according to Forrester Research.For many, the entry into the internet of things (IoT) world has been through the surging popularity of smart speakers, like Amazon Echo and Google Home, whose voice assistants can answer questions, play music, order food, read news, arrange an Uber ride, and control other connected smart devices.Forrester predicts that more than 66 million households in the United States will have smart speakers by 2022, up from 26 million in 2018. The number of homes with other smart devices, like refrigerators, vacuums, yard irrigation systems, and door locks, will more than double to 26.7 million in 2022 — or about 20 percent of households in the United States — from 12.2 million in 2018, Forrester projects.For many people, it’s about convenience and speed. “Consumers don’t just want this convenience, they expect it — they demand it,” said Charles Henderson, global head of X-Force Red, a professional hacking team at IBM Security.But the road to mass adoption of the smart home will likely be a long and bumpy one. Although the number and nature of smart devices is surging by the day, people have been relatively slow to actually buy and install them.“It’s a really messy space and there’s a lot of noise in this,” said Frank Gillett, principal analyst at Forrester.Buying, setting up and connecting smart devices can be costly, cumbersome, and time-consuming. Indeed, as many as one-third of smart speakers are still in their boxes, according to Forrester.“You need people to be patient and comfortable with working through multiple steps of instruction,” he said.Security, privacy and trust remain a big concern among owners of smart speakers. It’s that “big brother is listening” concern, said Charles Golvin, senior research director at Gartner, a research and advisory firm.In a 2017 survey by Gartner of smart speaker owners in the United State, the United Kingdom, and Germany, 44 percent said they would be more willing to use a virtual personal assistant app, like Alexa, Siri or Google Assistant, if all of their personal data stayed on the device rather than being stored in the Cloud.It’s no surprise that familiar names like Google, Amazon and Apple have taken a lead in the smart speaker space, and big brands like Samsung are creating buzz in smart appliances. But the rest of the smart device universe is fragmented.“Much of the innovation is coming from focused start-ups and midsize companies,” said Mr. Gillett.In the smart appliances realm, Samsung has emerged as a leader.With its Family Hub smart refrigerator, for example, you can view the contents of your refrigerator from a smartphone at work, use a grocery app like InstaCart or Amazon Prime Now to order any needed groceries for dinner, and have the food delivered before arriving home. The smart fridge also sends alerts about expiring food and offers recipes through Meal Planner for meals that include those expiring items.The fridge features a large touch-screen, speakers, and the Bixby voice assistant that allows someone to build shopping lists, post photos, play music — and even control the home’s other smart devices, like lights and thermostats, right from the fridge.If the family is watching a show on a smart Samsung TV in the living room, TV Mirroring allows someone to watch the same program on the fridge touch-screen while cooking in the kitchen.“People love this feature, specifically around game-time — where people don’t want to miss a play while preparing food,” said Adnan Agboatwalla, director of innovation programs at Samsung Electronics America.“The key to the whole ecosystem is to make the consumer’s life easier,” he said.Looking ahead, Mr. Agboatwalla said he hopes to add replenishment services, in which a washer and dryer, for example, would anticipate, based on a number of cycles, when the consumer needed detergent and dryer sheets — and would automatically order them from the person’s preferred retailer before they run out.But demand for consumer smart devices goes far beyond smart appliances, lights, speakers and thermostats. Tech giants and start-ups alike are rolling out innovative IoT and artificial intelligence-enabled devices at a breathtaking pace — the quirkier and more eye-catching the better — as they jockey to stand out in an increasingly crowded market.Among the newcomers is MassageRobotics, a company that offers body massages at home — only it’s done by a pair of robotic arms. Founder Christian Mackin came up with the idea after suffering back and neck injuries during a sandrail car accident in California in 2013. He underwent surgery — and then months of physical and massage therapy.“I thought, I’d like to design a robot to do this at home,” he said.So, Mr. Mackin, who owns an engineering firm, acquired a couple of collaborative robots, known as cobots, from Universal Robots, and brought in a physical therapist to program the so-called cobots to give 25 different massages with a robotic arm on each side of the massage table. The robots are artificial intelligence-enabled, responding to voice commands to change the speed, pressure and location of the massage from a light touch to deep tissue massage — depending on the person’s needs and injuries.There’s even a safe word — Stop — which will immediately stop the massage. With each adjustment or change, a new massage is created, which becomes part of the system’s database of massages for all customers to use.“Obviously, it’s not some beautiful masseuse or masseur doing it, but the massage tool feels just fantastic,” said Mr. Mackin. “You cannot tell the difference.” And robots never get tired, don’t expect tips, and can never face sexual misconduct accusations, he joked.But it doesn’t come cheap: A single massage robot will sell for $150,000 when it hits the market later this year, although Mr. Mackin expects the price to come down to between $50,000 and $75,000 within three years.Are you a fan of Jimmy Choo shoes? If so, there’s a smart designer shoe headed your way that’s not only stylish but also can detect signs of chronic diseases, like Parkinson’s, multiple sclerosis and Alzheimer’s, just by measuring the way you walk. Jimmy Choo teamed up with ZhorTech to create the Voyager Boot, a smart boot that currently allows the wearer to control temperature from an app. ZhorTech’s newest insole, which debuted at CES in Las Vegas this month, will also measure cadence, speed, impact force, pronation and other metrics as the person walks to detect diseases. A date has not yet been set for new insole’s addition to the Jimmy Choo smart boot.“There are more than 7,000 nerve endings in each foot directly connected to the brain,” said Karim Oumnia, chief executive and founder of ZhorTech and Digitsole. And medical studies show a direct relation between gait analysis and neurological diseases, he said. “We can even detect the severity level of the diseases” and track progression over time, he said. The Voyager Boot is available in three styles and is priced between $1,795 to $1,895.Then there’s the QUS washable smart sport shirt that collects body data like breathing rate, heart rate, and heart rate variability through sensor threads in the shirt and a device that’s snapped onto the back of the shirt. It collects the data during workouts and compares it with previous exercise sessions.There’s also Hip’Safe which is a wearable airbag belt for seniors priced at roughly $744, and B’Safe, an airbag vest for cyclists, that automatically inflate when motion sensors detect the person is falling, which is priced at roughly $700.Widex makes a smart hearing aid, which uses A.I. to learn and adjust the person’s hearing preferences in real time, and will soon be introducing a battery-free hearing aid.For cat owners, there’s iKuddle, a smart litter box priced at $299, which detects when the feline enters the box, deodorizes the air and packages waste into small bags for easy disposal. And it can all be tracked through an app.Out on the road, there’s EyeLights’ Eyedrive smart device, that allows a driver to see GPS directions, music playlists and incoming calls through a hologram that appears on the car’s window. A tablet-like device sits on the car’s dashboard, and, once connected to the phone’s GPS and music apps, will project the directions or music track onto the windshield — large enough that everyone in the car can see it. Since it’s activated by voice or gestures, the driver never has to look away from the road.Romain Duflot, chief executive and co-founder of EyeLights, dismisses suggestions that the hologram could be a distraction for drivers, saying that taking your eye off the road to check a phone is far riskier. “Phone distraction occurs in 52 percent of all trips that ended in a crash,” he said. EyeLights expects Eyedrive to be available in February and retail for $299 (though it may currently be pre-ordered via its Indiegogo campaign for $199).Then there’s Cupixel Art Box ($59.99), a smart device for the aspiring artist. The kit and app use augmented reality to scan a photo from the person’s iPad, and superimpose the image onto a canvas. The augmented realityimage provides an easy — almost paint-by-numbers — way to trace and paint the image. If you need help or inspiration, there’s a live chat with an artist on the app.“We give our users a foolproof way to create art,” said Elad Katav, co-founder of Cupixel.The choices of fun, cool, quirky smart devices is seemingly limitless — and continues expanding by the day. In the end, no single smart home will likely look the same. It will all come down to personal preferences.Added Mr. Gillett: “There’s no all-dancing home that you can set up and now your home is magic like the Jetsons.”An earlier version of this article implied incorrectly that a version of an app-controlled boot by Jimmy Choo and ZhorTech that detects diseases based on the way a person walks can be purchased now. The version currently available allows the wearer to control the boot’s temperature; the release date of the new version, with an insole that debuted at CES in Las Vegas this month, has not been set.

Supported byBy Adam Goldman, Michael S. Schmidt and Nicholas FandosWASHINGTON — In the days after President Trump fired James B. Comey as F.B.I. director, law enforcement officials became so concerned by the president’s behavior that they began investigating whether he had been working on behalf of Russia against American interests, according to former law enforcement officials and others familiar with the investigation.The inquiry carried explosive implications. Counterintelligence investigators had to consider whether the president’s own actions constituted a possible threat to national security. Agents also sought to determine whether Mr. Trump was knowingly working for Russia or had unwittingly fallen under Moscow’s influence.The investigation the F.B.I. opened into Mr. Trump also had a criminal aspect, which has long been publicly known: whether his firing of Mr. Comey constituted obstruction of justice.Agents and senior F.B.I. officials had grown suspicious of Mr. Trump’s ties to Russia during the 2016 campaign but held off on opening an investigation into him, the people said, in part because they were uncertain how to proceed with an inquiry of such sensitivity and magnitude. But the president’s activities before and after Mr. Comey’s firing in May 2017, particularly two instances in which Mr. Trump tied the Comey dismissal to the Russia investigation, helped prompt the counterintelligence aspect of the inquiry, the people said.[Trump responds to the Times's report on the FBI investigation via Twitter.]The special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, took over the inquiry into Mr. Trump when he was appointed, days after F.B.I. officials opened it. That inquiry is part of Mr. Mueller’s broader examination of how Russian operatives interfered in the 2016 election and whether any Trump associates conspired with them. It is unclear whether Mr. Mueller is still pursuing the counterintelligence matter, and some former law enforcement officials outside the investigation have questioned whether agents overstepped in opening it.The criminal and counterintelligence elements were coupled together into one investigation, former law enforcement officials said in interviews in recent weeks, because if Mr. Trump had ousted the head of the F.B.I. to impede or even end the Russia investigation, that was both a possible crime and a national security concern. The F.B.I.’s counterintelligence division handles national security matters.If the president had fired Mr. Comey to stop the Russia investigation, the action would have been a national security issue because it naturally would have hurt the bureau’s effort to learn how Moscow interfered in the 2016 election and whether any Americans were involved, according to James A. Baker, who served as F.B.I. general counsel until late 2017. He privately testified in October before House investigators who were examining the F.B.I.’s handling of the full Russia inquiry.“Not only would it be an issue of obstructing an investigation, but the obstruction itself would hurt our ability to figure out what the Russians had done, and that is what would be the threat to national security,” Mr. Baker said in his testimony, portions of which were read to The New York Times. Mr. Baker did not explicitly acknowledge the existence of the investigation of Mr. Trump to congressional investigators.No evidence has emerged publicly that Mr. Trump was secretly in contact with or took direction from Russian government officials. An F.B.I. spokeswoman and a spokesman for the special counsel’s office both declined to comment.Rudolph W. Giuliani, a lawyer for the president, sought to play down the significance of the investigation. “The fact that it goes back a year and a half and nothing came of it that showed a breach of national security means they found nothing,” Mr. Giuliani said on Friday, though he acknowledged that he had no insight into the inquiry.The cloud of the Russia investigation has hung over Mr. Trump since even before he took office, though he has long vigorously denied any illicit connection to Moscow. The obstruction inquiry,  revealed by The Washington Post a few weeks after Mr. Mueller was appointed, represented a direct threat that he was unable to simply brush off as an overzealous examination of a handful of advisers. But few details have been made public about the counterintelligence aspect of the investigation.The decision to investigate Mr. Trump himself was an aggressive move by F.B.I. officials who were confronting the chaotic aftermath of the firing of Mr. Comey and enduring the president’s verbal assaults on the Russia investigation as a “witch hunt.”A vigorous debate has taken shape among some former law enforcement officials outside the case over whether F.B.I. investigators overreacted in opening the counterintelligence inquiry during a tumultuous period at the Justice Department. Other former officials noted that those critics were not privy to all of the evidence and argued that sitting on it would have been an abdication of duty.The F.B.I. conducts two types of inquiries, criminal and counterintelligence investigations. Unlike criminal investigations, which are typically aimed at solving a crime and can result in arrests and convictions, counterintelligence inquiries are generally fact-finding missions to understand what a foreign power is doing and to stop any anti-American activity, like thefts of United States government secrets or covert efforts to influence policy. In most cases, the investigations are carried out quietly, sometimes for years. Often, they result in no arrests.Mr. Trump had caught the attention of F.B.I. counterintelligence agents when he called on Russia during a campaign news conference in July 2016 to hack into the emails of his opponent, Hillary Clinton. Mr. Trump had refused to criticize Russia on the campaign trail, praising President Vladimir V. Putin. And investigators had watched with alarm as the Republican Party softened its convention platform on the Ukraine crisis in a way that seemed to benefit Russia.If Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, finds evidence that Mr. Trump broke the law, he will have decisions to make about how to proceed. We explain them.Other factors fueled the F.B.I.’s concerns, according to the people familiar with the inquiry. Christopher Steele, a former British spy who worked as an F.B.I. informant, had compiled memos in mid-2016 containing unsubstantiated claims that Russian officials tried to obtain influence over Mr. Trump by preparing to blackmail and bribe him.In the months before the 2016 election, the F.B.I. was also already investigating four of Mr. Trump’s associates over their ties to Russia. The constellation of events disquieted F.B.I. officials who were simultaneously watching as Russia’s campaign unfolded to undermine the presidential election by exploiting existing divisions among Americans.“In the Russian Federation and in President Putin himself, you have an individual whose aim is to disrupt the Western alliance and whose aim is to make Western democracy more fractious in order to weaken our ability, America’s ability and the West’s ability to spread our democratic ideals,” Lisa Page, a former bureau lawyer, told House investigators in private testimony reviewed by The Times.“That’s the goal, to make us less of a moral authority to spread democratic values,” she added. Parts of her testimony were first reported by The Epoch Times.And when a newly inaugurated Mr. Trump sought a loyalty pledge from Mr. Comey and later asked that he end an investigation into the president’s national security adviser, the requests set off discussions among F.B.I. officials about opening an inquiry into whether Mr. Trump had tried to obstruct that case.But law enforcement officials put off the decision to open the investigation until they had learned more, according to people familiar with their thinking. As for a counterintelligence inquiry, they concluded that they would need strong evidence to take the sensitive step of investigating the president, and they were also concerned that the existence of such an inquiry could be leaked to the news media, undermining the entire investigation into Russia’s meddling in the election.After Mr. Comey was fired on May 9, 2017, two more of Mr. Trump’s actions prompted them to quickly abandon those reservations.The first was a letter Mr. Trump wanted to send to Mr. Comey about his firing, but never did, in which he mentioned the Russia investigation. In the letter, Mr. Trump thanked Mr. Comey for previously telling him he was not a subject of the F.B.I.’s Russia investigation.Six Trump advisers or officials have been charged by the special counsel.Even after the deputy attorney general, Rod J. Rosenstein, wrote a more restrained draft of the letter and told Mr. Trump that he did not have to mention the Russia investigation — Mr. Comey’s poor handling of the Clinton email investigation would suffice as a fireable offense, he explained — Mr. Trump directed Mr. Rosenstein to mention the Russia investigation anyway.He disregarded the president’s order, irritating Mr. Trump. The president ultimately added a reference to the Russia investigation to the note he had delivered, thanking Mr. Comey for telling him three times that he was not under investigation.The second event that troubled investigators was an NBC News interview two days after Mr. Comey’s firing in which Mr. Trump appeared to say he had dismissed Mr. Comey because of the Russia inquiry.“I was going to fire Comey knowing there was no good time to do it,” he said. “And in fact, when I decided to just do it, I said to myself — I said, you know, this Russia thing with Trump and Russia is a made-up story. It’s an excuse by the Democrats for having lost an election that they should’ve won.”Mr. Trump’s aides have said that a fuller examination of his comments demonstrates that he did not fire Mr. Comey to end the Russia inquiry. “I might even lengthen out the investigation, but I have to do the right thing for the American people,” Mr. Trump added. “He’s the wrong man for that position.”As F.B.I. officials debated whether to open the investigation, some of them pushed to move quickly before Mr. Trump appointed a director who might slow down or even end their investigation into Russia’s interference. Many involved in the case viewed Russia as the chief threat to American democratic values.“With respect to Western ideals and who it is and what it is we stand for as Americans, Russia poses the most dangerous threat to that way of life,” Ms. Page told investigators for a joint House Judiciary and Oversight Committee investigation into Moscow’s election interference.F.B.I. officials viewed their decision to move quickly as validated when a comment the president made to visiting Russian officials in the Oval Office shortly after he fired Mr. Comey was revealed days later.“I just fired the head of the F.B.I. He was crazy, a real nut job,” Mr. Trump said, according to a document summarizing the meeting. “I faced great pressure because of Russia. That’s taken off.”Follow Adam Goldman, Michael S. Schmidt and Nicholas Fandos on Twitter: @adamgoldmanNYT, @nytmike and @npfandos.

Supported byGood Monday morning. Want this by email? Sign up here.The next generation of computer and phone networks, known as 5G, is expected to connect cities around the world and fuel a future run on robots, autonomous vehicles, artificial intelligence and other technologies.But it may also rely on an infrastructure vulnerable to hackers and spies, one that the U.S. wants to stop China from building.The Trump administration has conducted a campaign to pressure allies such as Britain, Poland and Germany to banish Chinese companies, especially the telecommunications giant Huawei, from participating in the 5G buildup, according to the NYT:The administration contends that the world is engaged in a new arms race — one that involves technology, rather than conventional weaponry, but poses just as much danger to America’s national security. In an age when the most powerful weapons, short of nuclear arms, are cyber-controlled, whichever country dominates 5G will gain an economic, intelligence and military edge for much of this century.What’s next? President Trump is expected to issue an executive order prohibiting American companies from incorporating equipment originating from China in critical telecommunications networks, extending current rules that apply only to government entities. His administration, which has also waged a trade war with China, says that it is motivated by concern for national security, not just by competitive defensiveness. China’s economic czar, Liu He, will meet with the American trade representative, Robert Lighthizer, in Washington on Wednesday for two days of trade talks, which is likely to cover issues of cyberprotection and the proliferation of state-owned companies.What do officials think? Beijing’s ambassador to the E.U. threatened “serious consequences” if Huawei and other Chinese companies were excluded from 5G projects. In Canada, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau fired the country’s ambassador to China after he said that a senior Huawei executive had “strong arguments” to fight extradition to the U.S.And businesses? Tech manufacturers are diversifying outside China as trade tensions fester and the country’s economy slows. Foxconn and Pegatron, two Taiwanese companies that assemble iPhones, are expanding production capacity in India and Vietnam. American industrial companies with exposure to China have said that their sales there are weakening. But Apple is unlikely to bring production closer to the U.S., where manufacturers struggle to “match China’s combination of scale, skills, infrastructure and cost,” according to the NYT.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin and Stephen Grocer in New York, and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________The law firm Paul, Weiss is more diverse at its top ranks than most of its peers. But after the announcement of its new partner class, people across the industry began to comment that all of the faces were white, and that only one was a woman’s, the NYT’s Noam Scheiber and John Eligon write.Paul, Weiss has said that it regretted the “gender and racial imbalance” of its 2019 class. But the episode underscores how big law firms are still falling short when it comes to elevating women and people of color.Mr. Scheiber and Mr. Eligon interviewed more than 20 women and people of color who described obstacles to achieving diversity at Paul, Weiss. Many said that opportunities to be groomed for partner were harder to come by for women and minorities.“I fear that African-American partners in big law are becoming an endangered species,” said Theodore Wells, a black partner at Paul, Weiss and one of the country’s most prominent litigators.The former chief executive of Starbucks told Andrew yesterday that he was preparing to run for president in 2020 as an independent.Denouncing the “broken political system,” Mr. Schultz said he had already begun the groundwork to get on the ballot in all 50 states.Long-shot bid: Despite his considerable wealth, Mr. Schultz would face a difficult road. Few independent candidates have mounted significant challenges for the White House.Political jabs: In an interview with “60 Minutes,” Mr. Schultz said Donald Trump was “not qualified to be the president” and that lawmakers from both parties were engaged in “revenge politics.”Swift response: The announcement was condemned by top Democratic operatives, who said they were worried that Mr. Schultz would split votes in a general election.Logan Green, the chief executive of Lyft, is known to be reserved, usually letting his second-in-command speak for their ride-sharing service. But now, he’s in a race with Uber to take the companies public, write the NYT’s Mike Isaac and Kate Conger.That means Mr. Green may have to give up some up his reserve and step into a more public role.The back story: Both Lyft and Uber have filed regulatory papers to list their shares on the stock market in the coming months. The offerings are likely to create a bonanza in Silicon Valley.Why it matters: Lyft, which was last privately valued at $15.1 billion, is tiny compared with its rival and could be overshadowed if Uber debuts first. Uber could go public at a $120 billion valuation.Stocks sank at the end of last year on fears of an imminent recession, but those concerns have largely abated, with global markets now rallying at the fastest pace in months. But investors are still cautious ahead of a busy week.The next few days bring an onslaught of quarterly earnings reports from the likes of Amazon, Apple, Facebook, Microsoft and Tesla — many of which are considered to be representative of the broader economy. The Federal Reserve is also holding policy meetings this week, which come after central banks in Europe and Japan sounded cautious notes. And on Friday, the monthly U.S. jobs report will be released.The world economy “is not in crisis,” writes Neil Irwin. But, he adds:What the last few months have made clear is that the forces that have held back the global economy for the last 11 years are not temporary, and have not gone away. And that, in turn, makes the world uncommonly vulnerable to a bout of bad luck or bad policy.The work force is still aging. Productivity growth remains weak, as is consumer demand. Low interest rates could constrain central bankers trying to engineer an escape from a downturn. And a “nasty feedback loop” could result in more political dysfunction, leading to risks of economic disruption like the type posed by the recent government shutdown.Speaking of which: After a 35-day stalemate, the government is open again, much to the chagrin of some of President Trump’s conservative supporters. The 116th Congress will consider Democratic wage proposals in the house and a Middle East policy bill in the Senate. Lawmakers may also consider whether to ban future shutdowns entirely. Hundreds of thousands of federal employees heading back to work should receive back pay by the end of the week.Yi Huiman, the chairman of the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, will take over from Liu Shiyu as the party secretary and chairman of the China Securities Regulatory Commission. (Reuters)Lance Milken, son of Michael Milken, has left the private equity group Apollo Global Managemen to set up a family office. (FT)Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum producer outside China, said Jean-Pierre Thomas had resigned as its chairman and director as part of a deal with the U.S. government to lift sanctions on the company and on other Russian firms linked to the oligarch Oleg Deripaska. (Reuters)Deals• The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, a federally chartered body, says a $1.7 billion funding gap should sink the efforts of the Sears chairman, Edward Lampert, to buy out the retail chain. The move makes the corporation the latest and most influential creditor to oppose the sale. (WSJ)• The chemical companies Versum Materials and Entegris are in advanced talks to combine into a single entity that makes products used in the semiconductor manufacturing process. (WSJ)• The engineering group Rolls-Royce is leading a consortium of companies that is said to have asked the British government for more than $260 million to build small nuclear reactors. (FT)• Saudi Aramco wants to increase its foothold in Asia’s oil industry by buying up to 19.9 percent of the South Korean refiner Hyundai Oilbank. (Reuters)• The Italian energy company Eni and its Austrian peer OMV will pay $5.8 billion for a stake in the Abu Dhabi National Oil Company’s refining business. (Reuters)Tech• Kik Interactive, a Canadian social-media start-up that sold $100 million in a digital token it called “kin,” plans to fight the S.E.C. over the agency’s regulation of cryptocurrencies. (WSJ)• All aboard the driverless train: American rail-freight operators are turning to automation to make railroads safer and more productive. (WSJ)• The struggles of bike-sharing start-ups lay bare the flaws of VC2C, or venture capital to consumer, a common tech investment strategy in China. In VC2C, companies raise funds, use them to subsidize consumers, and ramp up prices later. (FT)• Retailers have used robots to handle inventory in warehouses. Now, they’re testing whether robots can figure out when store shelves need to be restocked. (WSJ)Politics and policy• A sweeping tax code overhaul and the lingering effects of a government shutdown could squeeze taxpayers’ refund checks, and delay them, too. (NYT)• Senator Elizabeth Warren is trying to stand out in an increasingly crowded field of presidential candidates by focusing on policy minutiae. But she risks being seen as out-of-touch, too intellectual and offbeat. (NYT)• With less than nine weeks to go until Brexit, British businesses are setting up emergency teams to cope with possible upheaval as they press politicians to agree on an orderly exit plan from the E.U. (Reuters)Best of the rest• Male managers said that they were nervous about mentoring female colleagues in the #MeToo era. (NYT)• The Securities and Exchange Commission is scrutinizing whether Nissan accurately reported executive pay. (NYT)• Signs that the government may move to privatize the mortgage-finance giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have sent shares soaring. (WSJ)• The Man Group hedge fund cut ties with the Booker Prize, saying it would dedicate donations to improving diversity in financial services instead. (FT)• U.S. manufacturers are taking a hit as Chinese demand for American goods weakens. (WSJ)• Workplace confidentiality rules in New Jersey are being challenged in court. (WSJ)• Qantas Airways customers are requesting exercise bikes and virtual reality devices to pass the time on 20-hour flights from Sydney to London. (Reuters)• Vale, the world’s largest iron ore miner, suspended dividends, buybacks and bonuses after a dam disaster in Brazil. (Reuters)• The two chief executives of Standard Life Aberdeen, Britain’s largest listed fund manager, made a case for joint leadership, a model unpopular with many investors and governance specialists. (FT)• The British supermarket chain Tesco is planning to cut thousands of jobs with the closing of meat, fish and delicatessen counters. (Guardian)• The U.S. Treasury Department is set to borrow $1 trillion for a second year to finance the deficit. (Bloomberg)• The English soccer club Arsenal announced plans to open several themed restaurants in China as part of a marketing push to reach fans there. (FT)• The European Commission is preparing to put Saudi Arabia on a list of countries that have failed to fight money laundering and terrorist financing. (FT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you on Tuesday.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.

Supported byGood Wednesday morning. Breaking: Sears and Edward S. Lampert have reached $5.3 billion deal that would keep its stores open for now. Want this by email? Sign up here.Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain suffered a crushing defeat yesterday, after Parliament rejected her plan to withdraw the country from the European Union.The result thrusts the country further into political chaos 10 weeks before it is scheduled to leave the bloc, write Stephen Castle and Ellen Barry.The response: Jeremy Corbyn, the leader of the opposition Labour Party, called the defeat “catastrophic.” The European Union said it was stunned by the defeat but said there was no option to renegotiate. “Time is almost up,” said the European Commission president, Jean-Claude Juncker.The markets: The uncertainty of a deal will weigh on investors. Analysts say some sectors will be especially sensitive, including homebuilders, commercial real estate, banking, retail and leisure.What’s next? Mr. Corbyn called for a no-confidence vote, which will be debated today. The measure is expected to fail, but Mrs. May has little time to regain momentum, and must present new plan by Monday.Lawmakers may opt for a softer exit, the FT’s Robert Shrimsely writes:The fear will be that Britain is now careering towards a no-deal Brexit, but in fact Tuesday night’s vote may yet prove the high-water mark for the Brexit hardliners. Having thrashed Mrs May’s plan they must now watch her reach out towards Remainers. A softer Brexit or even no Brexit at all, now looks more likely than the no-deal they crave.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin and Stephen Grocer in New York, and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________The partial government shutdown has been marked by theatrics. Democrats spurned an invitation by President Trump to a lunch of steak and potatoes at the White House. Legislators marched across the Capitol to confront a top Republican — who was not in his office. Kraft Heinz announced that it would distribute free food to federal workers.But as the stalemate enters its 26th day, economists are warning that the damage is real and growing, writes Jim Tankersley. The Council of Economic Advisers said that each week of the shutdown reduces quarterly economic growth by 0.13 percentage points as furloughed employees and contractors sit idle, steadily scaling back their spending.Business and consumer confidence — already burdened by signs of slowing global growth, trade tensions with China and the waning effects of the 2017 tax overhaul — could suffer. With no end to the standoff in sight, the economy could slip from what appears to be the strongest year of growth since the financial crisis into a stall, or worse. According to Michael L. Corbat, the chief executive of Citigroup:“Right now, we see the biggest risk in the global economy as one of talking ourselves into a recession.”Other shutdown news:• The Trump administration said it would call tens of thousands of employees back to work, without pay, to prepare for the tax-filing season, oversee air travel safety, and sell oil and gas drilling leases.• Unpaid federal workers said that they deserved to be paid immediately for working during the shutdown or be allowed to take jobs elsewhere. A federal judge disagreed.• The Liberty Bond program appealed to Americans’ sense of patriotism to raise funds during World War I. Two Republican lawmakers hope a similar tactic would pay for a border wall.Members of the Sackler family, which owns the company that makes OxyContin, were accused in court documents of being directly involved in efforts to mislead doctors and patients about the dangers of the painkiller.The evidence, revealed a Massachusetts lawsuit filing, appears to tie the Sacklers to decisions made by the company, Purdue Pharma, about the aggressive marketing of OxyContin, Barry Meier writes. The promotion of the drug helped set off the opioid epidemic.The Sacklers are one of the richest families in the U.S., with much of their wealth derived from OxyContin sales. In a statement, Purdue Pharma, rejected suggestions of wrongdoing by the company or members of the Sackler family.Apollo Global Management is close to a deal to buy Arconic, an aerospace-parts maker, for more than $10 billion, the WSJ reports.The news: Apollo would pay $21 to $22 per share for Arconic, which has a market value of about $9.3 billion. The price would represent a premium of 5 percent to 10 percent above the closing price of Arconic’s shares on Tuesday. The deal is likely to be announced this week.The back story: Several buyout firms have shown interest since last summer in acquiring Arconic, which was formed from the break up of Alcoa in 2016.The context: A deal would be one of the largest leveraged buyouts in recent years and another sign of a thaw in debt markets. Last week, Targa Resources became the first issuer to sell junk bonds since November, ending a 40-day stretch without a high-yield bond sale.A takeover bid for Gannett could complicate its pursuit of Gizmodo Media, which owns Deadspin and Jezebel as well as its namesake technology website.The news: Gannett is a serious bidder for Gizmodo Media in an auction that has also drawn attention from the owner of Gawker.com, the WSJ reported, citing anonymous sources. Univision put Gizmodo Media up for sale in July.Why it’s complicated: In an open letter to the Gannett board, MNG Enterprises, a major Gannett shareholder, offered on Monday to pay $12 cash per Gannett share. MNG which is owned by the hedge fund Alden Global Capital, accused Gannett of damaging the company’s financial position by making several “aspirational digital deals” that haven’t paid off. It demanded that Gannett postpone all digital acquisitions and hire bankers to review strategic alternatives.Fourth-quarter results released on Tuesday by JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo pointed to concerns about the credit and housing markets.• Revenue at both banks missed Wall Street’s estimates, and both announced underwhelming loan growth. At JPMorgan, commercial and industrial loans increased 1 percent, down from 4 percent in the prior quarter. Jamie Dimon, the chief executive, said the bank will pull back lending even more if necessary, saying, “We are not going to be stupid.” Wells Fargo said its mortgage originations fell 28 percent year over year.• JPMorgan said its revenue from fixed income trading declined 16 percent from a year earlier, mirroring a similar slump reported on Monday by Citigroup. But net interest income, the gap between earnings from loans and payouts to depositors, rose 10 percent for JPMorgan and 3 percent for Wells Fargo.• Bank of America and Goldman Sachs are to release their own reports today.• In the airline industry, United Continental beat expectations as fourth-quarter revenue soared 11 percent. The airline said its earnings for this year could be as high as $12 per diluted share. The results lifted the shares of United and rival airlines alike.Andrea Orcel, a top investment banker who seemed set to become the chief executive of Banco Santander, is now without a job.Santander decided not to pay him more than $50 million in deferred compensation Mr. Orcel was owed by his previous employer, UBS.Ana Patricia Botín, the bank’s executive chairwoman and part of the family that controls the lender, said that Santander had underestimated how expensive it would be to hire Mr. Orcel.Santander, she said, had to “balance the respect we have for all of our stakeholders — the millions of people, customers and shareholders we serve — with the very significant cost of hiring one individual, even one as talented as Andrea.”Adam Moss said he would step down in March after 15 years as editor of New York magazine. (NYT)Indra K. Nooyi, the former chief executive of PepsiCo, is in contention to become president of the World Bank. (NYT)Another candidate for the World Bank presidency is Ray Washburne, the property developer who runs the U.S. government’s development finance institution, the Overseas Private Investment Corp. (FT)The Snap exodus continues, with its chief financial officer, Tim Stone, leaving less than a year after assuming the position. (Reuters)Rakesh Kapoor, one of the highest-paid chief executives in Britain, plans to step down from his role at the consumer goods group Reckitt Benckiser by the end of the year. (FT)The hedge fund group DE Shaw appointed Ruvim Breydo as co-chief investment officer of its fast-growing institutional asset management group. (FT)Deals• Payless ShoeSource hired an adviser to help it look into a sale, a restructuring, store closures and other strategic alternatives less than 18 months after the discount retailer emerged from bankruptcy. (Reuters)• The European Court of Justice overruled a 2013 European Commission decision that blocked UPS’s planned acquisition of its Dutch peer TNT Express. (Reuters)• Advent International, Bain Capital and Clessidra hired Evercore to advise on a potential initial public offering this year for Nexi Group, the Italian payment services firm they own. (Bloomberg)• Boeing’s investment branch led a $14 million fund-raising round in Isotropic Systems, whose technology could revolutionize satellite antennas. (FT)Tech• Netflix is raising prices 13 to 18 percent, depending on the subscription plan, the largest increase since the streaming service started 12 years ago. (NYT)• Apple replaced 11 million iPhone batteries during its yearlong battery replacement program It had expected to replace no more than two million. (CNBC)• Data from a pilot program that limited e-scooters in Portland, Ore., show that the scooters often replaced short car trips and led to fewer injuries than expected. (NYT)• Verizon Communications said it would offer free Apple Music subscriptions to its U.S. customers with top-tier data plans. (Reuters)• PagerDuty, which makes tools for software developers, filed confidentially for an initial public offering. (Bloomberg)Politics and policy • Several recently elected progressive Democrats, including Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York, Rashida Tlaib of Michigan and Katie Porter of California, are expected to join the House Financial Services Committee, where they would oversee Wall Street. (Bloomberg)• Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, Democrat of New York, announced on Stephen Colbert’s show that she was running for president in 2020. (NYT)Best of the rest • Most board members at large public firms in the U.S. are white men, but minorities and women now occupy a growing share of the seats, according to a new study. (NYT)• Ford and Volkswagen are planning a broad alliance to help both companies cut costs and make inroads into autonomous and electric vehicles. But investors are still waiting for details. (NYT)• Global debt is near a record, hovering at $244 trillion. That’s more than three times the size of the global economy, according to one analysis. (Bloomberg)• Two men believed to be Ukrainian nationals are accused of trying to hack into the S.E.C.’s database and steal potentially market-moving information, federal prosecutors revealed. (NYT)• Colgate Total toothpaste is relaunching without triclosan, an ingredient that has raised concerns about its potential links to cancer. (Bloomberg)• The yield curve in the government bond market is signaling traders’ concerns about the U.S. economy. (NYT)• China is experimenting with ways to bolster shopping, including giving workers Friday afternoons off and asking stores to stay open later. (Bloomberg)• To win France’s approval to buy Alstom’s energy business, General Electric made a commitment to create jobs or pay a hefty fine. G.E. did not deliver, and France wants up to $60 million. (Bloomberg)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you on Thursday. We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.

Supported byI saw the greatest minds of my generation log 18-hour days — and then boast about #hustle on Instagram. When did performative workaholism become a lifestyle?By Erin GriffithNever once at the start of my workweek — not in my morning coffee shop line; not in my crowded subway commute; not as I begin my bottomless inbox slog — have I paused, looked to the heavens and whispered: #ThankGodIt’sMonday. Apparently, that makes me a traitor to my generation. I learned this during a series of recent visits to WeWork locations in New York, where the throw pillows implore busy tenants to “Do what you love.” Neon signs demand they “Hustle harder,” and murals spread the gospel of T.G.I.M. Even the cucumbers in WeWork’s water coolers have an agenda. “Don’t stop when you’re tired,” someone recently carved into the floating vegetables’ flesh. “Stop when you are done.” Kool-Aid drinking metaphors are rarely this literal.Welcome to hustle culture. It is obsessed with striving, relentlessly positive, devoid of humor, and — once you notice it — impossible to escape. “Rise and Grind” is both the theme of a Nike ad campaign and the title of a book by a “Shark Tank” shark. New media upstarts like the Hustle, which produces a popular business newsletter and conference series, and One37pm, a content company created by the patron saint of hustling, Gary Vaynerchuk, glorify ambition not as a means to an end, but as a lifestyle.“The current state of entrepreneurship is bigger than career,” reads the One37pm “About Us” page. “It’s ambition, grit and hustle. It’s a live performance that lights up your creativity … a sweat session that sends your endorphins coursing ... a visionary who expands your way of thinking.” From this point of view, not only does one never stop hustling — one never exits a kind of work rapture, in which the chief purpose of exercising or attending a concert is to get inspiration that leads back to the desk.Ryan Harwood, the chief executive of One37pm’s parent company, told me that the site’s content is aimed at a younger generation of people who are seeking permission to follow their dreams. “They want to know how to own their moment, at any given moment,” he said.“Owning one’s moment” is a clever way to rebrand “surviving the rat race.” In the new work culture, enduring or even merely liking one’s job is not enough. Workers should love what they do, and then promote that love on social media, thus fusing their identities to that of their employers. Why else would LinkedIn build its own version of Snapchat Stories?This is toil glamour, and it is going mainstream. Most visibly, WeWork — which investors recently valued at $47 billion — is on its way to becoming the Starbucks of office culture. It has exported its brand of performative workaholism to 27 countries, with 400,000 tenants, including workers from 30 percent of the Global Fortune 500.In January, WeWork’s founder, Adam Neumann, announced that his start-up was rebranding itself as the We Company, to reflect an expansion into residential real estate and education. Describing the shift, Fast Company wrote: “Rather than just renting desks, the company aims to encompass all aspects of people’s lives, in both physical and digital worlds.” The ideal client, one imagines, is someone so enamored of the WeWork office aesthetic — whip-cracking cucumbers and all — that she sleeps in a WeLive apartment, works out at a Rise by We gym, and sends her children to a WeGrow school.From this vantage, “Office Space,” the Gen-X slacker paean that came out 20 years ago next month, feels like science fiction from a distant realm. It’s almost impossible to imagine a start-up worker bee of today confessing, as protagonist Peter Gibbons does, “It’s not that I’m lazy. It’s that I just don’t care.” Workplace indifference just doesn’t have a socially acceptable hashtag.It’s not difficult to view hustle culture as a swindle. After all, convincing a generation of workers to beaver away is convenient for those at the top.“The vast majority of people beating the drums of hustle-mania are not the people doing the actual work. They’re the managers, financiers and owners,” said David Heinemeier Hansson, the co-founder of Basecamp, a software company. We spoke in October, as he was promoting his new book, “It Doesn’t Have to Be Crazy at Work,” about creating healthy company cultures.Mr. Heinemeier Hansson said that despite data showing long hours improve neither productivity nor creativity, myths about overwork persist because they justify the extreme wealth created for a small group of elite techies. “It’s grim and exploitative,” he said.Elon Musk, who stands to reap stock compensation upward of $50 billion if his company, Tesla, meets certain performance levels, is a prime example of extolling work by the many that will primarily benefit him. He tweeted in November that there are easier places to work than Tesla, “but nobody ever changed the world on 40 hours a week.” The correct number of hours “varies per person,” he continued, but is “about 80 sustained, peaking about 100 at times. Pain level increases exponentially above 80.”Mr. Musk, who has more than 24 million Twitter followers, further noted that if you love what you do, “it (mostly) doesn’t feel like work.” Even he had to soften the lie of T.G.I.M. with a parenthetical.Arguably, the technology industry started this culture of work zeal sometime around the turn of the millennium, when the likes of Google started to feed, massage and even play doctor to its employees. The perks were meant to help companies attract the best talent — and keep employees at their desks longer. It seemed enviable enough: Who wouldn’t want an employer that literally took care of your dirty laundry?But today, as tech culture infiltrates every corner of the business world, its hymns to the virtues of relentless work remind me of nothing so much as Soviet-era propaganda, which promoted impossible-seeming feats of worker productivity to motivate the labor force. One obvious difference, of course, is that those Stakhanovite posters had an anticapitalist bent, criticizing the fat cats profiting from free enterprise. Today’s messages glorify personal profit, even if bosses and investors — not workers — are the ones capturing most of the gains. Wage growth has been essentially stagnant for years.Perhaps we’ve all gotten a little hungry for meaning. Participation in organized religion is falling, especially among American millennials. In San Francisco, where I live, I’ve noticed that the concept of productivity has taken on an almost spiritual dimension. Techies here have internalized the idea — rooted in the Protestant work ethic — that work is not something you do to get what you want; the work itself is all. Therefore any life hack or company perk that optimizes their day, allowing them to fit in even more work, is not just desirable but inherently good.Aidan Harper, who created a European workweek-shrinkage campaign called 4 Day Week, argues that this is dehumanizing and toxic. “It creates the assumption that the only value we have as human beings is our productivity capability — our ability to work, rather than our humanity,” he told me.It’s cultist, Mr. Harper added, to convince workers to buy into their own exploitation with a change-the-world message. “It’s creating the idea that Elon Musk is your high priest,” he said. “You’re going into your church every day and worshiping at the altar of work.”For congregants of the Cathedral of Perpetual Hustle, spending time on anything that’s nonwork related has become a reason to feel guilty. Jonathan Crawford, a San Francisco-based entrepreneur, told me that he sacrificed his relationships and gained more than 40 pounds while working on Storenvy, his e-commerce start-up. If he socialized, it was at a networking event. If he read, it was a business book. He rarely did anything that didn’t have a “direct R.O.I.,” or return on investment, for his company.Mr. Crawford changed his lifestyle after he realized it made him miserable. Now, as an entrepreneur-in-residence at 500 Start-ups, an investment firm, he tells fellow founders to seek out nonwork-related activities like reading fiction, watching movies or playing games. Somehow this comes off as radical advice. “It’s oddly eye-opening to them because they didn’t realize they saw themselves as a resource to be expended,” Mr. Crawford said.It’s easy to become addicted to the pace and stress of work in 2019. Bernie Klinder, a consultant for a large tech company, said he tried to limit himself to five 11-hour days per week, which adds up to an extra day of productivity. “If your peers are competitive, working a ‘normal workweek’ will make you look like a slacker,” he wrote in an email.Still, he’s realistic about his place in the rat race. “I try to keep in mind that if I dropped dead tomorrow, all of my acrylic workplace awards would be in the trash the next day,” he wrote, “and my job would be posted in the paper before my obituary.”The logical endpoint of excessively avid work, of course, is burnout. That is the subject of a recent viral essay by the BuzzFeed cultural critic Anne Helen Petersen, which thoughtfully addresses one of the incongruities of hustle-mania in the young. Namely: If Millennials are supposedly lazy and entitled, how can they also be obsessed with killing it at their jobs?Millennials, Ms. Petersen argues, are just desperately striving to meet their own high expectations. An entire generation was raised to expect that good grades and extracurricular overachievement would reward them with fulfilling jobs that feed their passions. Instead, they wound up with precarious, meaningless work and a mountain of student loan debt. And so posing as a rise-and-grinder, lusty for Monday mornings, starts to make sense as a defense mechanism.Most jobs — even most good jobs! — are full of pointless drudgery. Most corporations let us down in some way. And yet years after the HBO satire “Silicon Valley” made the vacuous mission statement “making the world a better place” a recurring punch line, many companies still cheerlead the virtues of work with high-minded messaging. For example, Spotify, a company that lets you listen to music, says that its mission is “to unlock the potential of human creativity.” Dropbox, which lets you upload files and stuff, says its purpose is “to unleash the world’s creative energy by designing a more enlightened way of working.”David Spencer, a professor of economics at Leeds University Business School, says that such posturing by companies, economists and politicians dates at least to the rise of mercantilism in 16th-century Europe. “There has been an ongoing struggle by employers to venerate work in ways that distract from its unappealing features,” he said. But such propaganda can backfire. In 17th-century England, work was lauded as a cure for vice, Mr. Spencer said, but the unrewarding truth just drove workers to drink more.Internet companies may have miscalculated in encouraging employees to equate their work with their intrinsic value as human beings. After a long era of basking in positive esteem, the tech industry is experiencing a backlash both broad and fierce, on subjects from monopolistic behavior to spreading disinformation and inciting racial violence. And workers are discovering how much power they wield. In November, some 20,000 Googlers participated in a walkout protesting the company’s handling of sexual abusers. Other company employees shut down an artificial intelligence contract with the Pentagon that could have helped military drones become more lethal.Mr. Heinemeier Hansson cited the employee protests as evidence that millennial workers would eventually revolt against the culture of overwork. “People aren’t going to stand for this,” he said, using an expletive, “or buy the propaganda that eternal bliss lies at monitoring your own bathroom breaks.” He was referring to an interview that the former chief executive of Yahoo, Marissa Mayer, gave in 2016, in which she said that working 130 hours a week was possible “if you’re strategic about when you sleep, when you shower, and how often you go to the bathroom.”Ultimately, workers must decide if they admire or reject this level of devotion. Ms. Mayer’s comments were widely panned on social media when the interview ran, but since then, Quora users have eagerly shared their own strategies for mimicking her schedule. Likewise, Mr. Musk’s “pain level” tweets drew plenty of critical takes, but they also garnered just as many accolades and requests for jobs.The grim reality of 2019 is that begging a billionaire for employment via Twitter is not considered embarrassing, but a perfectly plausible way to get ahead. On some level, you have to respect the hustlers who see a dismal system and understand that success in it requires total, shameless buy-in. If we’re doomed to toil away until we die, we may as well pretend to like it. Even on Mondays.Erin Griffith reports on technology start-ups and venture capital from the San Francisco bureau. Before joining The Times she was a senior writer at WIRED and Fortune.  @eringriffith 

Supported byGood Thursday morning. Want this by email? Sign up here.Larry Fink, who oversees nearly $6 trillion of investments at BlackRock, wrote a letter to chief executives last year declaring that businesses must make “a positive contribution to society.”It was seen as a turning point in the debate over the state of global capitalism, Andrew writes in his column. Some business leaders bristled, but others began talking about their companies’ “purpose” in mission statements and official documents.Yesterday, Mr. Fink sent chief executives another letter, arguing that businesses cannot merely have a purpose; they must be leaders in a divided world:“Stakeholders are pushing companies to wade into sensitive social and political issues — especially as they see governments failing to do so effectively.”It’s a continued explanation of the stance that last year prompted Barron’s to call Mr. Fink “the new conscience of Wall Street.” Not everyone agrees with him, but he has helped further a conversation that is undoubtedly positive, Andrew writes.“I don’t see a recession coming”: Mr. Fink told the FT that skittishness among investors was natural, given the developments that buffeted markets toward the end of last year. But he added that he saw few signs of a global downturn.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin and Stephen Grocer in New York, and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________Goldman Sachs is orchestrating a campaign to discredit one of its former partners and minimize its role in the looting of Malaysia’s big state investment fund, write Matthew Goldstein, Emily Flitter and Kate Kelly.The news: In recent presentations to regulators and law enforcement authorities, Goldman Sachs has depicted Tim Leissner, a former top investment banker, as a master con man, according to people familiar with their contents.The background: The scorched-earth tactics reflect just how worried the Wall Street bank is about the criminal investigations into its role in the theft of at least $2.7 billion from the 1Malaysia Development Berhad sovereign wealth fund, known as 1MDB.What’s at stake: Goldman recently disclosed that it set aside an additional $516 million to cover potential legal and regulatory penalties, including those related to 1MDB. And executives said the bank could owe another $2 billion.More banking news: Goldman reported a rise in fourth-quarter profit to $2.54 billion, or $6.04 a share, from a year ago, easily beating analysts’ expectations. That, along with strong earnings from Bank of America, helped push major indexes higher and suggested that investors had underestimated the health of the economy.John Bogle, a longtime advocate for investors’ rights, founded Vanguard in 1974 and helped build it into a giant asset manager that today handles $4.9 trillion, making it second in size only to BlackRock. He had esophageal cancer, his assistant told the NYT.Mr. Bogle stepped down as chief executive of Vanguard in 1996 and as its chairman at the end of 1999. Last year, his net worth was estimated at $80 million — far less than many of his peers.His constant push to cut the costs of investing put him “squarely into an American tradition of iconoclastic discounters like Henry Ford of Ford Motor, Sam Walton of Walmart and Michael Dell of Dell Inc. — men who built giant companies by selling directly to the consumer at rock-bottom prices,” the WSJ said.Warren Buffett, himself an investing legend, told CNBC that Mr. Bogle “did more for American investors as a whole than any individual I’ve known,” adding:“A lot of Wall Street is devoted to charging a lot for nothing. He charged nothing to accomplish a huge amount.”Late last year, in an interview with Barron’s, Mr. Bogle noted “clouds on the horizon” in 2019 in the form of massive sovereign and corporate debt, “great upheaval” in global trade and “the mystery of Brexit.”“A little extra caution should be the watchword,” he said.Speaker Nancy Pelosi wrote to President Trump suggesting he cancel or postpone his State of the Union address, scheduled for Jan. 29 before a joint session of Congress and a prime time television audience, or that he deliver it in writing instead. She cited security concerns created by the partial government shutdown, the longest in history, which entered its 27th day today.The president has said he won’t compromise with Democrats, telling aides that his determination to build a border wall will be remembered long after the shutdown is forgotten. In moments of frustration, however, he has privately complained about “getting crushed,” write Maggie Haberman and Annie Karni of the NYT.Some other shutdown fallout:• Many of the jobs affected are the best available in their communities, coming with pensions, union membership, vacation days and guaranteed pay increases. Average pay since 2000 has grown twice as fast for federal workers as for private sector employees.• Several hundred thousand government employees are being asked to work without pay, including 2,500 at the Department of Agriculture who are being called back today, Friday and Tuesday. They have little choice but to comply, because of legal challenges, anti-strike laws and their emotional investment in their work.• World Central Kitchen, founded by the celebrity chef Jose Andres, opened an emergency “Chef for Feds” pop-up in Washington that has served more than 2,000 meals. Nate Mook, the nonprofit group’s executive director, called the shutdown a “man-made disaster.”Prime Minister Theresa May narrowly survived a vote of no confidence on Wednesday, allowing her to keep her job and helping Britain avoid a general election as it struggles to prepare for its fast-approaching withdrawal from the European Union.The motion was brought by Jeremy Corbyn, the leader of the opposition Labour Party, minutes after Parliament roundly rejected Mrs. May’s Brexit withdrawal plan on Tuesday. He is expected to heavily influence Brexit planning in the following weeks.The gridlock feels almost American. Bucking a long British tradition of lawmakers falling in line with their leader, more than 100 of Mrs. May’s party members rebelled in choosing to vote against her Brexit proposal.Could Brexit invalidate business contracts? In one of the first legal cases to explore how the split will affect deals, an E.U. regulator that is relocating to Amsterdam is claiming that the 25-year lease for its site in London has been “frustrated” by Brexit.Contingency plans for a no-deal departure. Tesco, the largest British supermarket group, is renting refrigerated containers in case of supply disruptions.Federal prosecutors in Seattle are investigating accusations that the Chinese technology giant Huawei stole intellectual property from American companies.The case covers some of the same issues raised in a suit between Huawei, which makes telecommunications equipment and smartphones, and T-Mobile. A jury found against Huawei in that suit in 2017.A bipartisan group of U.S. legislators proposed bills this week to prohibit U.S. chips and other technology being sold to Huawei, ZTE and other Chinese companies said to violate U.S. sanctions or export control laws. Lawmakers have also said that solar panels from Huawei could be hacked, potentially disrupting the flow of electricity in the United States.A Chinese official described the legislation as “hysteria.”Recently, Huawei invited foreign journalists to tour the sprawling campus it’s setting up in Dongguan, which features towns modeled after Paris, Verona and other European cities — an architectural assertion of the company’s global ambitions. Its secretive research unit will occupy a replica castle.Microsoft is putting up half a billion dollars to build more affordable homes in the Seattle area, saying that the tech industry has a responsibility to help people in communities transformed by its growth. It promises housing for the company’s non-tech workers, as well as for teachers, firefighters and other middle- and low-income residents, writes Karen Weise.Less than a year ago, Amazon successfully pushed to block a new tax in Seattle that would have made large businesses fund homeless services and affordable housing.Microsoft has been at the vanguard of warning about the potential negative effects of technology, and executives hope other companies will follow its lead on housing.Diego De Giorgi, Bank of America’s head of global investment banking, is said to be stepping down, four months after the departure of his boss, Christian Meissner, the head of corporate and investment banking. (FT)Deals• Hitachi will pause a $19.3 billion nuclear power project in North Wales as it seeks better financial terms from the British and Japanese governments. (NYT)• Tribune Publishing approached Gannett about reviving merger talks weeks before Gannett became the target of a takeover bid by MNG Enterprises, a hedge fund-backed media group. (WSJ)• The financial technology provider Fiserv agreed to buy the First Data Corporation, a payment processor, in a $22 billion all-stock deal. (Reuters)• Cars.com said it had retained JPMorgan Chase and Latham &amp; Watkins to explore options including a possible sale. (FT)• Germany’s finance ministry asked for a regulator’s analysis of a merger between Deutsche Bank and Commerzbank, the country’s two biggest private-sector lenders. (FT)• Siemens and Alstom are mounting a last-ditch effort to gain antitrust approval for a rail deal from the European Commission. (Bloomberg)• Disney wants agreements by the end of February from bidders for the regional sports networks it is acquiring from 21st Century Fox. (Bloomberg)Tech• The day after T-Mobile announced a merger last April that needed approval from the Trump administration, nine executives had reservations at the Trump International Hotel. (WaPo)• How Facebook’s secrecy fuels paranoia. (NYT)• Google is raising the prices of its office productivity apps for the first time. (CNBC)• Amazon is jolting the publishing industry by creating instant best sellers out of previously self-published writers. (WSJ)• Palantir Technologies, the data analytics start-up that Peter Thiel helped found, generated nearly $1 billion in revenue last year, roughly half of it from government agencies. (Bloomberg)• Niantic, which makes Pokémon Go, is now worth nearly $4 billion after it raised $245 million from investors including Samsung Ventures. (FT)Politics and policy • Sanctions against companies controlled by Oleg V. Deripaska, an ally of President Vladimir Putin of Russia, are likely to be lifted this week, after a Senate measure to protect them fell three votes short. (NYT)• The chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, Charles Grassley, said President Trump was likely to impose tariffs on imported vehicles to extract concessions from the E.U. (Reuters)Best of the rest • The children’s clothing retailer Gymboree Group filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection for the second time in nearly two years. It will close more than 800 Gymboree and Crazy 8 stores and sell its upscale Janie and Jack brand. (Reuters)• NewsGuard, a start-up that Steve Brill helped found to help stop false stories spreading on the internet, has signed Microsoft as its first major client. (NYT)• Investment in clean energy slumped 8 percent worldwide last year, even as the number of new projects increased, because the cost of wind and solar technology fell and China slashed solar subsidies. (FT)• The gender pay gap for business school students is 3 percent before school starts but 28 percent five years after graduation, a study found. (FT)• Citigroup, the third largest U.S. bank, said it pays female employees 29 percent less than their male counterparts. (Reuters)• Adam Neumann, WeWork’s chief executive, has made millions of dollars leasing the company properties in which he has an ownership stake. (WSJ)• The singer Beyoncé asked that her lawsuit over the sale of “Feyonce” items by a Texas company, including shirts and mugs marketed to engaged couples, be dismissed. (Reuters)• Alcoa expects demand for aluminum, a barometer of global economic health, to grow more slowly this year than at any time since the financial crisis. (FT)• Airbus will invest $300 million and create 400 jobs at a new factory assembling A220 jetliners in Alabama. It’s receiving $26 million in state and local support. (Reuters)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you on Friday. We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.

Supported byBy Kenneth P. Vogel, Scott Shane, Mark Mazzetti and Iuliia MendelWASHINGTON — Hours after he was sworn in as America’s 45th president, Donald J. Trump and his wife, Melania, swayed together to a rendition of the Frank Sinatra classic “My Way,” as hundreds of their wealthiest and most influential supporters held aloft smartphones to capture the Trumps’ first dance following the inauguration.Serhiy Kivalov, a Ukrainian lawmaker known for pro-Russian initiatives, took photos of the dance, as well as of his coveted tickets and passes to the soiree where it took place, the Liberty Ball at the Walter E. Washington Convention Center, posting them on Facebook and declaring that “it was an honor” to attend.He was one of at least a dozen Ukrainian political and business figures who made their way to Washington for the inauguration, several of whom attended the Liberty Ball. Most had more on their dance cards than just parties.They attended meetings and orchestrated encounters at Trump International Hotel with influential Republican members of Congress and close allies of President Trump. Representing a range of views, including a contingent seen as sympathetic to Moscow, they positioned themselves as brokers who could help solve one of the thorniest foreign policy problems facing the new administration — the ugly military stalemate between Russia and Ukraine and the tough sanctions imposed on Moscow following its seizure of Crimea.The transition of power in Washington attracted officials and business executives from around the world seeking entree and influence with the new administration. While many parties and other gatherings during that period were open to anyone, packages for more exclusive events organized by Mr. Trump’s presidential inaugural committee started at $25,000 for two tickets to one of the official black tie balls and other events, according to a brochure listing inaugural committee “underwriter benefits.”Evidence of the Ukrainians’ presence eventually prompted interest from the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, as he investigated Russian interference in the 2016 election, and has spawned a number of related inquiries by federal prosecutors. The investigations are playing out against growing indications that some of the Ukrainians who came to Washington for the inaugural, or their allies, were promoting grand bargains, or “peace” plans, that aligned with Russia’s interests, including by lifting sanctions.Such a deal would not just have given the new administration additional flexibility to bring Moscow into American diplomatic efforts in the Middle East, but could also have eased the way for a cast of characters with ties to Mr. Trump — some of whom in turn had ties to the Ukrainians who came to Washington — to move ahead on business deals that had been complicated by the sanctions.Federal prosecutors have asked witnesses about how some of the Ukrainians gained access to inauguration events, whom they met with while they were in the United States, and what they discussed — including questions about various peace plan proposals — according to people with direct knowledge of the questions and others who were briefed on the interviews.As recently as last month, prosecutors were asking witnesses about illegal foreign lobbying related to Ukraine. Another subject of questions has been whether foreigners from Ukraine and other countries used straw donors to disguise donations to the inaugural committee. Federal law prohibits foreigners from contributing to an inaugural committee, although they can attend events if Americans buy the tickets.Elements of the investigations have gotten new visibility in recent weeks.Lawyers for Paul Manafort, the former Trump campaign chairman who was paid tens of millions of dollars over the last dozen years by Russia-aligned Ukrainian interests, inadvertently revealed on Tuesday that he had communicated about a Ukraine-Russia peace plan with a business associate believed to have ties to Russian intelligence.The associate, Konstantin V. Kilimnik, is a Russian citizen who has been charged by Mr. Mueller with obstruction of justice for trying to shape the testimony of witnesses to the events that led to charges of illegal foreign lobbying against Mr. Manafort.Mr. Kilimnik was said in the inadvertently disclosed portions of the court filing to have received political polling data from Mr. Manafort in 2016. Mr. Manafort relayed a request to have Mr. Kilimnik pass the polling data to two Ukrainian oligarchs who had arranged or provided financing for Russia-aligned Ukrainian political parties for which Mr. Manafort had worked. One of the oligarchs, Serhiy Lyovochkin, attended the Liberty Ball, according to one person familiar with the guest list and another who saw him there.Last month, prosecutors made a move that was seen as signaling the continuing cooperation of Sam Patten, an American consultant who had worked with Mr. Kilimnik and Russia-aligned Ukrainians looking to build ties to the Trump administration.Mr. Patten had pleaded guilty in late August to charges including funneling $50,000 in money from an unnamed foreigner who matched the description of Mr. Lyovochkin but was described in court papers only as “a prominent Ukraine oligarch” to buy tickets to exclusive Trump inauguration events for the oligarch, Mr. Kilimnik and someone described only as “another Ukrainian.”Other Ukrainians who came to Washington during the inauguration said prosecutors had been asking wide-ranging questions.“I have been interrogated twice by the F.B.I. and Mr. Mueller,” said Andrii V. Artemenko, who came to the inauguration as a Ukrainian member of Parliament bearing a peace proposal that was later criticized as pro-Russian.Mr. Artemenko said he had testified before Mr. Mueller’s grand jury last summer and had answered questions from the Mueller team “about what is my purpose of this trip, how I can get there, and what I did, how I got invitations and tickets and stuff.”On Capitol Hill, investigators from the House Oversight Committee, now under Democratic control, are looking into Michael T. Flynn, Mr. Trump’s first national security adviser, who was a central player in the effort to build a new relationship with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia.How active a role Mr. Flynn played in the discussions about a peace plan for Ukraine is unclear, but congressional investigators have been pursuing whether he or his former business partners might have gained financially if the sanctions on Russia were ended.The committee, whose chairman is Representative Elijah E. Cummings of Maryland, is continuing to pursue its investigation of Mr. Flynn’s business dealings and “his potential misuse of his public position when he was national security adviser,” a committee spokeswoman said.In 2017, a whistle-blower told committee investigators that Mr. Flynn had mentioned to a business associate around the time of the inauguration that the Russia sanctions would be “ripped up” as one of the administration’s first acts. Mr. Flynn believed that ending the sanctions could allow a business project he had once participated in to move forward, according to the whistle-blower.Mr. Flynn had been part of a business venture to partner with Russia to build nuclear power plants in the Middle East until June 2016, but after his direct involvement ended, he remained close with people involved in the project.In a December 2017 letter to the Oversight Committee, an officer of the company that hired Mr. Flynn as an adviser on the project, ACU Strategic Partners, said that the allegations of the whistle-blower were “false and unfounded.”Mr. Flynn subsequently intersected with one of the Ukrainian efforts to resolve the problems with Russia.Mr. Artemenko, the former Ukrainian lawmaker, said in an interview that he did not attend any inaugural balls or other events that required paid tickets. Instead, he said he watched Mr. Trump’s inaugural address, which was free, and met with various Republicans to discuss his peace plan, which would have lifted sanctions against Russia and which he said had some support from the Kremlin.Days after the inauguration, Mr. Artemenko traveled to New York to discuss his peace plan with Michael D. Cohen, who was then Mr. Trump’s lawyer, and a former business partner of the president’s, Felix H. Sater, who had helped Mr. Trump scout deals in Russia. Mr. Cohen subsequently hand-delivered the peace plan to Mr. Flynn a week before Mr. Flynn was forced to resign after being caught lying about his own discussion of sanctions with the Russian ambassador.Within days of the inauguration, the White House made inquiries to the State Department and Congress about what might be required to ease the sanctions. Resetting relations with the Russian government and Mr. Putin had been central to Mr. Trump’s foreign policy approach during the campaign, the transition and the first days of the new administration, and it is unclear what role, if any, the back-channel Ukrainian entreaties might have played.The official inquiries about an abrupt policy shift set off alarms at the State Department and in Congress.“I heard from various sources that there was a plan to summarily lift sanctions on Russia,” said Daniel Fried, a veteran diplomat who stayed on for the first several weeks of the Trump administration as the State Department’s coordinator for sanctions policy. “I was approached by people who were nervous that the United States was about to do something irretrievably stupid.”Several other officials, some of whom would speak only on the condition of anonymity, also recalled jarring questions from the new National Security Council under Mr. Flynn, including whether Ukraine was really part of Russia and whether Crimea wanted to be part of Russia.Even among Republicans, the idea of easing sanctions found little support. “If there’s any country in the world that doesn’t deserve sanctions relief, it’s Russia,” Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, said in an interview with Politico a week after the inauguration.By March 2017, the White House’s sanctions relief trial balloon had wilted amid opposition from congressional leaders.But that has not stopped the prosecutorial scrutiny of those pushing plans to lift the sanctions around the inauguration, and their roles in prospective business deals that might have benefited from the lifting of the sanctions.Mr. Cohen has pleaded guilty to a number of charges, including lying to congressional investigators about negotiations to build a Trump skyscraper in Moscow. While Mr. Cohen had initially echoed Mr. Trump’s claim that talks about the Moscow project had ended before the 2016 presidential campaign, Mr. Cohen admitted in his guilty plea that they extended into the summer of 2016.By then, Russia was engaged in a surreptitious hacking and social media campaign to bolster Mr. Trump, who was publicly pressing for warmer relations with Russia, including signaling a willingness to consider lifting sanctions.The sanctions posed a potential obstacle for the Trump Tower Moscow project, in which Mr. Sater, who is Russian-American, had positioned himself as a key player. Mr. Sater and Mr. Cohen discussed financing from two Russian banks, VTB and GenBank, but the sanctions prohibited American citizens and companies from doing business with either of them, according to reporting by The New York Times and BuzzFeed.Another prominent businessman who had worked with Mr. Trump years earlier to try to erect a Trump building in Moscow, the Ukrainian-Russian developer Pavel Fuks, also was in Washington for the inauguration.Mr. Fuks, who has since fallen out of favor in Moscow and was placed under sanctions by the Kremlin, stayed at Trump International Hotel, and spent time with Vitaliy Khomutynnik, a businessman and parliamentarian who had been a member of the Russia-aligned party for which Mr. Manafort worked. Mr. Fuks and Mr. Khomutynnik talked with Representatives Kevin McCarthy and Ed Royce, both influential California Republicans at the time.Mr. Khomutynnik’s party posted photos of him with the congressmen on Facebook, and suggested that he extracted assurances that American-Ukrainian relations would grow stronger under Mr. Trump, without detailing any specific policy discussions.Mr. McCarthy’s office said that the encounter was random, and that the conversation was brief and perfunctory, and noted that Mr. McCarthy has supported sanctions against Russia.In Ukraine, a parliamentarian affiliated with the president, Petro Poroshenko, who is generally regarded as pro-Western, accused rival politicians of paying as much as $200,000 for inaugural tickets.Mr. Kivalov, the Ukrainian lawmaker who posted photos of the Trumps’ dance, did not respond to requests for comment about how he got his tickets to the Liberty Ball. Borislav Bereza, a Ukrainian lawmaker who posted a photo of himself in a tuxedo at the ball, said he got his tickets free from someone “connected to Illinois,” though he said, “I don’t remember for sure.”He attributed the claims about Ukrainians’ paying for tickets to jealousy from those who were not invited, and in a Facebook post he characterized the ball as “a place where, over a glass of champagne, you are introduced to people who have influence in the new administration of the White House. These are the traditions of the United States.”Kenneth P. Vogel, Scott Shane and Mark Mazzetti reported from Washington, and Iuliia Mendel from Kiev, Ukraine. Sharon LaFraniere and Maggie Haberman contributed reporting from Washington.

Supported byGood Monday morning. Want this by email? Sign up here.In Michigan, which is likely to be a battleground state in 2020, EBW Electronics continued to produce lights for the auto industry even as nearby factories succumbed to competition and moved to Mexico.President Trump’s tariffs may change that, executives told the NYT’s Peter S. Goodman. Pat LeBlanc, EBW’s chairman, who voted for Mr. Trump, said the trade war with China could halve the company’s profit for the year. “It’s killing us,” he said. “I just feel so betrayed.”Chinese and American trade negotiators are meeting today in Beijing, hoping to extend a delicate truce. Tariffs as high as 25 percent on Chinese imports have left American companies such as EBW trying to pass higher costs of foreign components to their customers, struggling to keep up with competitors abroad and considering whether to move their plants and jobs outside the country.• Mr. Trump says the U.S. has the stronger negotiating position: China, he said, will capitulate because it’s “not doing very well now.”• He has a point: The Labor Department’s report on the U.S. job market, released on Friday, was surprisingly strong. And concerns about a slowdown in China, whose central bank said last week that it would pour $218 billion into the economy, have riled global markets in the new year. In the past month, China has approved more than $125 billion in new rail projects as a stimulus.• Signs of a slowing economy: But factory orders are struggling not just in China but also in the U.S. The effects of Mr. Trump’s tax overhaul on consumer spending are expected to wane this year. The government shutdown is straining federal agencies. And rising interest rates are weighing on the American housing market.• Key issues for negotiators: The trade talks are likely to focus on issues such as intellectual property, Huawei and energy, according to Bloomberg.• Global markets are watching closely: Equities jumped in Asia today, European stocks opened up and oil prices rose as negotiations began.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin and Stephen Grocer in New York, and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, the youngest woman ever elected to the House of Representatives, spent her first weekend in office trading barbs with a top House Republican over her tax proposal.In an interview with Anderson Cooper on “60 Minutes,” Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, a 29-year-old Democrat from the Bronx, described a plan that would raise the tax rate for the richest Americans to as high as 70 percent. The rate, which would apply to those earning more than $10 million a year, would be significantly higher than the current top rate of 37 percent, which was lowered in 2017 from 39.6 percent. She explained:“That doesn’t mean all $10 million are taxed at an extremely high rate, but it means that as you climb up this ladder, you should be contributing more.”On Twitter, Representative Steve Scalise, Republican of Louisiana and the minority whip, called the suggestion an attempt to take “hard-earned money” and “give it to leftist fantasy programs.”Ms. Ocasio-Cortez responded by accusing Republicans of “ripping off” American workers “for profit.” Mr. Scalise then said it was “not productive” to engage with her “radical followers,” and admonished her with a hashtag to “#StayClassy.”• In the interview with Mr. Cooper, Ms. Ocasio-Cortez called herself a radical and said there was “no question” Mr. Trump is racist.• She also responded on Friday to footage from her college years showing her dancing barefoot on a rooftop, posting another video of herself dancing into her office in Washington. “I hear the GOP thinks women dancing are scandalous,” she wrote on Twitter. “Wait till they find out Congresswomen dance too!”Last year was rough for hedge funds.But not for Ray Dalio and his Bridgewater firm, which manages $160 billion in assets. The company’s flagship Pure Alpha hedge fund recorded a gain of 14.6 percent last year, easily beating the broader market and rival funds. It was Pure Alpha’s best performance in five years; in 2017, it returned just 1.2 percent.On average, hedge funds lost 2 percent last year through the end of November. “Macro” funds that bet on the direction of the global economy saw returns slide more than 4 percent.Bridgewater attributed its high return in part to a highly diversified strategy.Other hedge fund superstars had a far less successful 2018.The main fund of David Einhorn’s Greenlight Capital lost 34 percent last year, its worst performance since the firm opened in 1996, according to CNBC. Larry Robbins’s Glenview Capital Management suffered a 16 percent decline, in large part because of a hit to the firm’s health care portfolio, the WSJ reported. Third Point, run by Daniel Loeb, took an 11 percent hit. The S&amp;P 500 ended the year down 6 percent.The Wall Street roller coaster is a ride that many analysts now look to with trepidation, as the bull market approaches its 10th year. Analysts from Citigroup, BMO Capital Markets and Credit Suisse are trimming their forecasts for 2019, according to the WSJ, despite soothing words from the Fed chairman, Jerome Powell, about flexible rate policy as well as a blockbuster jobs report on Friday.Major indexes are performing far below their highs, especially after a sharp sell-off in December and Apple’s decision on Wednesday to lower its quarterly revenue forecast for the first time in more than 15 years.Many  investors are considering safe haven assets like the Japanese yen and gold. Analysts are worried that pessimism could result in slumping equities and rising corporate bond yields, which could lower consumer and business confidence and spending.The U.S. central bank, which steered the economy through the financial crisis and its rebound, has its work cut out: It must handle a slowdown in growth while keeping inflation in check and avoiding a recession.Apple blamed China’s slowing economy and growing trade tensions with Washington when it announced last week that it was lowering its revenue forecast.But the NYT’s Kevin Roose thinks the company should be more worried about his mom, a longtime Apple fan and tech-savvy retiree who lives in a small town in Ohio.The problem? She likes her phone — a three-year-old iPhone 6S — as well as her first-generation Apple Watch and (relatively) ancient MacBook Air. She’s not looking to upgrade anytime soon. He writes:“The most consequential hit to Apple’s bottom line may be from people who are holding on to their phones for longer. Back in 2015, iPhones were being replaced after roughly two years, on average, according to BayStreet Research, a firm that tracks smartphone sales. That period has jumped to roughly three years, and is expected to grow even more.”Elsewhere in the orchard:• Apple’s cheapest new model, the iPhone XR, hasn’t done very well, leading the company to cut its production forecast for the device.• As it shifts from its hardware-first approach into a more services-focused strategy, Apple announced a deal with Samsung, its archrival, to offer iTunes movies and television content on the South Korean company’s television sets. Tomorrow, Samsung is expected to report its first drop in quarterly operating profit in two years, because of slower growth in China.A growing number of venture capitalists are rooting for a market dip to calm the overheated start-up scene.For the past few years, Silicon Valley start-ups have been awash in cash that has allowed them to expand quickly and sell or go public at high valuations. Yet that drove up the costs of deal making for venture capitalists, who often prefer to invest in young companies at lower prices in the hopes of making a bigger return later.Now, some of these investors may get their wish for a market decline. Stocks tumbled late last year, led by tech giants such as Facebook and Apple, amid fears of slowing economic growth and a trade war with China. And so far this year, the stock market has had wild swings, whipsawed by confusing signals including Apple’s disappointing iPhone sales in China and American employers adding more jobs than expected last month.It takes time for choppiness in the stock market to ripple out to the start-up market, but many venture capital investors are already preparing for a downturn. Some are setting aside money to pounce on investments and are preparing to write bigger checks with the expectation that new investors who flooded in recent years would flee. And they are keeping closer tabs on companies that were too expensive to invest in last year.In the U.S., venture capital activity last year sank to a five-year low of 5,536 deals, though funding surged 30 percent from 2017, to $99.5 billion. In Asia, the number of deals and the amount of financing surged.The surprise announcement that Susan Zirinsky would replace David Rhodes as CBS News president was the latest major personnel change at CBS after the ouster of Leslie Moonves, the company’s longtime chief executive. (NYT)Deals• The joint venture between Morgan Stanley and Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group has not only created a leading investment bank in Japan, it has given the Wall Street bank an added $2.8 trillion on its balance sheet. (WSJ)• Apollo is said to be in talks to secure financing to buy all or part of General Electric’s jet-leasing unit, a business that could be worth as much as $40 billion. (Bloomberg)• Starboard Value, the New York hedge fund and activist investor, is said to be pushing the discount retailer Dollar Tree to sell its Family Dollar business, which it bought for $9 billion in 2015, and to raise some prices above $1. (WSJ)• A Visa subsidiary said last month that it had offered 30 pence a share, or $252 million, for Earthport, a payments firm based in London. The offer was about four times the company’s previous closing share price, but some shareholders want more options. (Bloomberg)• Should negotiations between Sears and its chairman, Edward Lampert, over his $4.4 billion takeover bid be unsuccessful, the retailer is said to have tapped Abacus Advisory, a longstanding liquidator, to shed inventory. (Reuters)Politics and policy• “Not much headway made today,” President Trump conceded on Twitter after a meeting on border security and the government shutdown yielded little progress on Saturday. (NYT)• The Fed chairman, Jerome Powell, tried to ease the fears of investors by suggesting that the Fed could afford to watch and wait before deciding whether to continue raising interest rates. (NYT)• Coping with a partial government shutdown, federal civilian agencies that are out of funds are ordering some contractors to halt work. (WaPo)• President Emmanuel Macron of France is struggling with violent protests as a grass-roots rebellion has morphed into an assault on his presidency and French institutions. (Reuters)Tech• The rapper 2 Milly has sued the maker of the Fortnite video game, claiming that the company used his dance moves in the game without his permission. (WSJ)• Amazon is building a logistics network in rural India to reach customers who don’t have smartphones or credit cards, but who do have money to spend. (WSJ)• Tesla broke ground today on its $2 billion Shanghai Gigafactory, as the electric-car maker looks to strengthen its presence in China, the world’s biggest auto market. (Reuters)• As China prepares its Nasdaq-style board for start-ups, technology companies in the country are hopeful the move will pave the way for a lower listing threshold and easier access to funding. (Reuters)• Kenichiro Yoshida, the chief of Sony, says he considers it “a creative entertainment company” and sees the PlayStation Network as a way to bring Sony movies, shows and music to consumers. (NYT)• Netflix wins big at the Golden Globes, taking home trophies for best TV comedy and best foreign film, among others. (WSJ)Best of the Rest• The parent company of Pacific Gas and Electric Company announced on Friday that it would be making changes to improve safety, including “a board refreshment process.” (WSJ)• Facing billions of dollars in damages stemming from wildfire liability claims, PG&amp;E and other utilities want legislators to let them pass the costs on to homeowners through higher electricity rates. (NYT)• Claiming their big-box stores are worth much less than their tax assessment, retailers are trying to win property tax appeals, but homeowners and small businesses will have to pay more or live with smaller town budgets. (NYT)• The investment adviser Vanguard retained its title as the fastest-growing fund manager for the seventh straight year. (FT)• Netflix’s decision to remove an episode of its comedy show “Patriot Act” from its service in Saudi Arabia raises questions of whether entertainment giants will fight for values like free expression. (NYT)• The overall number of guests affected by the Marriott hacking, in which Chinese intelligence is the leading suspect, declined to 383 million. But the company’s Starwood hotel unit didn’t encrypt the passport numbers of roughly five million guests. (NYT)• New car sales in Britain dropped last year as new emissions tests led to supply bottlenecks, diesel drivers held onto their cars for longer and uncertainty mounted over the country’s exit from the European Union. (FT)• Barclays’s former chief executive, John Varley, and three others are to face trial this week on charges stemming from an inquiry into the bank’s emergency refinancing arrangements with Qatar in 2008. (FT)• Iran is proposing snipping four zeros from the rial after the currency plunged last year. (Reuters)• Lowe’s, the home improvement retailer, plans to hire more than 65,000 workers this year, including 50,000 seasonal positions and nearly 10,000 permanent employees focused on inventory management. (WSJ)• The average rents in U.S. shopping malls gained less than 1 percent in the fourth quarter from a year earlier, and they could dwindle further this year as economic growth slows. (WSJ)• A strong economy and sluggish home sales led to an increase in residential rents in 2018, but as a wave of new apartments hits the market this year, landlords may have a tough time raising rents. (WSJ)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you Tuesday.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.

Supported byThe Democratic electorate has shifted sharply to the left, taking many politicians along with it — willingly and unwillingly. By Thomas B. EdsallMr. Edsall contributes a weekly column from Washington, D.C. on politics, demographics and inequality.The most active wing of the Democratic Party — the roughly 20 percent of the party’s electorate that votes in primaries and wields disproportionate influence over which issues get prioritized — has moved decisively to the left. With all the attention that is being paid to Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Ayanna Pressley, Rashida Tlaib and other new progressive voices in Congress, this may not seem like news, but we are only just beginning to realize the full significance of this shift.The Primaries Project at the Brookings Institution conducted extensive polling of 7,198 Democratic voters in the 2018 primaries and found that 60.4 percent described themselves as liberal, including 26.4 percent who said they were “very liberal.”In its most recent analysis, Gallup found that from 1994 to 2018, the percentage of all Democrats who call themselves liberal more than doubled from 25 percent to 51 percent.Over the same period, the percentage of Democratic moderates and conservatives fell steadily, with the share of moderates dropping from 48 to 34 percent, and of conservatives dropping from 25 to 13 percent. These trends began to accelerate during the administration of George W. Bush and have continued unabated during the Obama and Trump presidencies.In recent years, the internal pressures to hew to the left, driven largely by Democratic primary voters, have steadily gained strength.They include the determination to oppose all things Trump, especially his anti-immigrant policies, his racism and his religious bigotry; the rise of outspoken, well-educated liberals, many of them young; the #MeToo movement and Trump’s disrespect for women; the Occupy movement; the mobilization of anti-establishment voters by Bernie Sanders during the 2016 primaries; and the consistent exodus of more conservative white voters from the Democratic Party, supplanted by more politically liberal minority voters.The anti-establishment faction contributed significantly to the large turnout increases in Democratic primaries last year. Pew found that from 2014 to 2018, turnout in House primaries rose from 13.7 to 19.6 percent of all registered Democrats, in Senate primaries from 16.6 to 22.2 percent and in governor primaries from 17.1 to 24.5 percent.Isabel Sawhill, a senior fellow at Brookings, agrees with the analysis that core voters and activist leaders within the party are “moving leftward”:Medicare for All, free college, a universal jobs guarantee, a $15 minimum wage, an expansion of the EITC to the entire bottom half, workers on boards of directors, ending ICE, raising marginal tax rates to 70 percent are all big, bold leftist ideas and appear to be gaining currency.These “big, bold leftist ideas” pose a strategic problem for liberals and the Democratic Party, Sawhill, who published “The Forgotten Americans: An Economic Agenda for a Divided Nation” last year, wrote in an email:In my view, it’s a trade-off between exciting the base thereby insuring higher turnout vs. broadening the base to include independents and Republicans that don’t like Trump.Sawhill argues that if the goal of Democrats is victory, as opposed to ideological purity, they must focus on general election swing voters who are not die-hard Democrats.One key Democratic target, Sawhill observes, is the “well-educated, suburban women, many of them Republican, who voted for Democrats in the midterms.” Once Trump is gone, she continued, “they could easily return to their natural home in the Republican Party.”“Over the longer-term,” Sawhill continued,as millennials and minorities become an ever-larger proportion of the party, it will have a natural constituency that supports a new and bolder agenda, but the concentration of those voters in urban areas that are underrepresented in our electoral system will be a continuing drag on the party’s prospects.The extensive support among prospective Democratic presidential candidates for Medicare for All, government-guaranteed jobs and a higher minimum wage reflects the widespread desire in the electorate for greater protection from the vicissitudes of market capitalism — in response to “increasingly incomplete risk protection in an era of dramatic social change,” as the political scientist Jacob Hacker put it in “Privatizing Risk without Privatizing the Welfare State: The Hidden Politics of Social Policy Retrenchment in the United States.” Support for such protections is showing signs of becoming a litmus test for candidates running in the 2020 Democratic presidential primaries.Polling by the Pew Research Center shows sharp movement in a progressive direction on key issues among many Democrats.Take liberalized attitudes on immigration as an example. From 2008 to 2018, the percentage of Democrats who said the government should create “a way for immigrants already here illegally to become citizens if the meet certain requirements” grew from 29 to 51 percent, while the share who said “there should be better border security and stronger enforcement of immigration laws” fell from 21 to 5 percent.Similarly, the percentage of Democrats who agreed with the statement that “racial discrimination is the main reason many blacks can’t get ahead these days” rose from 28 to 64 percent from 2010 to 2017.Paul Starr, a sociology professor at Princeton, warns against putting too much stock in the ascendance of progressive Democrats. In an essay in the American Prospect, Starr argues that there were “two distinct developments” in the 2018 elections:While progressives have gained ground in long-held Democratic areas, more centrist candidates have won the more competitive districts. This second development will limit how far to the left the party can go. The more the party expands into the suburbs, the more dependent it will be on those relatively centrist votes — and that dependence will become a constraint on the policies that Democrats are able to agree on.In addition, while acknowledging the rise of the progressive wing, Starr pointed out that a separate December 2018 Gallup survey found that 54 percent of Democratic voters would prefer their party to become “more moderate,” while 41 percent said they would like the party to become “more liberal.”Along similarly cautionary lines, David Graham wrote in the Atlantic last November:There’s clear leftward movement among Democratic voters on a range of issues, and there are more progressive candidates running than ever. But this doesn’t amount, at least yet, to the socialist groundswell that advocates pine for and critics fear. The actual policy positions, and number of leftist officeholders, will remain limited — at least for now. What happens in 2020 could be more telling.Graham’s conclusion:The Democratic Party is moving left, but it might not be clear quite how far left for two or even six years. The revolution is coming more slowly than its champions hope and its critics fear.Matt Grossmann, a political scientist at Michigan State, noted in an email that the leftwardmovement is across the board on policy, ideological identification, and values, but remains furthest left on specific policy. The public movement seems to be strongest on race and gender issues as well as any proposal tied to Trump.Women, according to Grossmann, “are becoming a bigger part of the Democratic electorate and more supportive of women primary candidates.”The 2018 primary elections revealed the deepening strength of an anti-establishment insurgent faction, largely young, white and minority urban voters who turned out in droves in Democratic primaries from Omaha to Tallahassee and from the Bronx to Boston.Michael Capuano, a former mayor of Somerville, Mass. and a ten-term member of the House, learned the hard way how much the Democratic electorate has changed. As mayor in the 1990s, Capuano presided over the gentrification of the once scruffy, working class town. Initially, the city was grateful.When Capuano first won election to Congress in 1998, he owed his victory in the 10-candidate Democratic primary to his hometown. He carried Somerville with 7,852 votes, more than the total vote for all nine opponents, 6,253, while losing to other candidates in Boston, Belmont, Cambridge, Chelsea and Watertown.The impact of gentrification is striking.By 2017, 61.2 percent of Somerville’s residents 25 or older had at least a bachelor’s degree, compared with 30.9 percent nationwide. The median household income was $84,722, compared with $57,652 nationally.Somerville had moved from downscale to upscale, not to the level of Brattle Street in Cambridge or Boston’s Beacon Hill, but still many steps up the ladder.In the process, Somerville left Capuano, a white working class Democrat in the mold of Tip O’Neill, behind.In 2018, twenty years after first winning his House seat, Capuano could no longer count on Somerville. Despite his deep roots — his father had been mayor before him — the vote there was a wash. Capuano received 8,423 to 8,286 for his opponent, Ayanna Pressley, an African-American Boston city councilwomen.Pressley swept Cambridge and Boston to crush Capuano, 60,046 to 42,430 districtwide.The same pattern emerged in the widely publicized defeat of Joe Crowley, another 10-term incumbent, by Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez in the Democratic primary in a House district that straddles the Bronx and Queens.Steven Romalewski, who runs the mapping service at the CUNY Center for Urban Research, wrote me by email that “Ocasio-Cortez did best in areas such as Astoria/Steinway and Sunnyside, which happen to be more white than other parts of the district,” a point he elaborated upon in a story quoting him posted on The Intercept:You can also see that most of her votes, the strongest vote support, came from areas like Astoria in Queens and Sunnyside in Queens and parts of Jackson Heights that, number one, were not predominantly Hispanic, so they’re a more mixed population, and are areas where — this is kind of a term of art — are in the process of being gentrified, where newer people are moving in,Grace Segers, writing in July on the City &amp; State website, noted that Crowley fell victim to gentrification and that force may upend expectations in Democratic primaries throughout Manhattan and western Brooklyn and Queens. And the rise of younger voters who are newer to their districts and unattached to incumbents could power insurgent candidates throughout New York City.David Freedlander, writing in Politico Magazine, captured the unanticipated voting patterns that gave rise to Crowley’s defeat. “Ocasio-Cortez’s best precincts,” Freedlander wrote, were highly educated, whiter and richer than the district as a whole. In those neighborhoods, Ocasio-Cortez clobbered Crowley by 70 percent or more.Conversely, Crowley did best in “the working-class African-American enclave of LeFrak City, where he got more than 60 percent of the vote.” In fact, Crowleypulled some of his best numbers in Ocasio-Cortez’s heavily Latino and African-American neighborhood of Parkchester, in the Bronx — beating her by more than 25 points on her home turf.Jerry Skurnik, a New York political consultant, describes gentrifying communities outside Manhattan as experiencing an influx of “people who really want to live in Greenwich Village but can’t afford to.”This younger, well-educated constituency — predominately but not exclusively white — is hostile to cautious establishment Democrats, especially to older white men, and they are determined to engineer an intraparty cultural and ideological insurgency.The emergence in force in 2018 of these insurgent Democrats grows in part out of the Sanders presidential campaign. Sanders mobilized millions of voters, many of whom did not want the Democrats to nominate a candidate with deep ties to party regulars and to the major donor community.Maps of primary voting patterns in 2016 and 2018 produced by CUNY’s Graduate School of Journalism and the Center for Urban Research show that Sanders beat Clinton in just a handful of New York City neighborhoods. Many of those Sanders neighborhoods are in Ocasio-Cortez’s district and they are the communities that provided her biggest margins of victory.Sanders also carried Somerville in 2016, 12,247 to 9,016, where support for Capuano imploded two years later.If the turnout patterns in the Ocasio-Cortez and Pressley districts are even modestly predictive, the Democratic Party may be changing in significant ways.Tom Kiley, who conducted polling for Capuano, described in an email the shifting makeup of the Democratic electorate in the Seventh District of Massachusetts:Mike did best among older, white, non-college educated Democrats who, for the most part, still described themselves as liberals or moderate liberals.Pressley’s base, Kiley wrote, was overwhelmingly made up of liberal, college-educated, white voters, especially those under 45 who did not have a history of voting in off-year elections. We were expecting what we considered a robust turnout of 75,000 for the day after Labor Day. In fact it ballooned to over 100,000, largely on the strength of this younger white cohort.While the Boston-Cambridge-Somerville district is far more liberal than the national average, Kiley argued that trends there are likely to be replicated in many regions of the country. “These new voters will have a major impact in the Democratic nomination process in many states,” he wrote:The desire for change in general is huge, and Trump is a powerful accelerant. I have to believe these new voters aren’t going to just retreat after electing new members of Congress; they’ll come out in droves in the primaries next year. And they’ll be voting for change.While primary voters are normally predominately committed partisans with a long history of voting, in the Pressley-Capuano contest more than half of the voters had no record of previous primary voting (24 percent) or were recorded as voting in only one previous primary (29 percent).“If the Pressley campaign was banking on turnout, they certainly cashed in,” wrote Maeve Duggan, research director at the MassINC Polling Group, in an article posted on the website of WBUR, Boston’s NPR news station.“Some 106,556 voters in the 7th Congressional District cast ballots in the 2018 Democratic primary, compared with just 61,725 in 2014,” she continued, “and among the district’s 2018 primary voters, only 37 percent had also voted” in 2014 primaries, according to voter file analysis.Duggan and the MassINC Polling Group analyzed the demographics of the first-time voters and found:They were predominantly women and young people: Fifty-five percent were women, and 66 percent were age 44 or younger (including 34 percent who were 18 to 29 years old).The surge of young voters had a powerful impact, increasingthe overall proportion of voters 44 or younger from 25 percent in 2014 to 42 percent in 2018. Combining age and gender, women ages 18 to 29 made up the largest group of new voters, at 20 percent.The new voters, she found, “were more likely to be Asian or Hispanic, compared with the 7th’s repeat voters,” but, she noted, the state’s only majority-minority congressional district “still has a predominantly white voting base.”A July 2018 pre-election survey of voters in the Capuano-Pressley district conducted by WBUR-MassINC makes clear the importance of growing political participation among young voters. The survey found striking generational differences not only on the candidates but on issues.18-to-29-year-olds favored Pressley over Capuano 41-23 while those over 60 backed Capuano 59-28. Asked if they would be more or less likely to support a candidate who “made abolishing ICE a major priority,” young voters said “more likely” by 48-18 while older voters said it would make them “less likely” by 25-23.Both young and old supported a national health care program, but the margin of support versus oppose was larger (90-2) among young voters than among their elders (71-16).In a postelection analysis of the Ocasio-Cortez-Crowley contest, the Global Strategy Group found:White gentrified liberal areas went big for AOC and surged. Younger, white liberal areas contributed heavily to the margin of Ocasio-Cortez’s victory. Ocasio-Cortez won Hispanics.At the same time, according to their analysis, voters Crowley thought he could depend upon — “expected people, especially older primary voters — did not show up.”Joshua M. Zeitz, a historian whose most recent book is “Building the Great Society: Inside Lyndon Johnson’s White House,” argues that contemporary Democratic progressives are not insurgents, but in full accord with party tradition.In an essay in Politico, “Democrats Aren’t Moving Left. They’re Returning to Their Roots,” Zeitz argued thatWhat pundits today decry as a radical turn in Democratic policy and politics actually finds its antecedents in 1944. With the country fully mobilized for war, President Franklin Roosevelt called for “a second Bill of Rights … an economic Bill of Rights” that would entitle all Americans to a “useful and remunerative job,” “the right to earn enough to provide adequate food and clothing and recreation,” the “right … to a decent home,” “the right to adequate medical care” and the “right to a good education.”Sawhill looks at the ideological shifts in the Democratic electorate less from a historical perspective and more as a response to contemporary economic and social dislocation. Among both conservatives and liberals, Sawhill argued, there is “an intellectual awakening about the flaws of modern capitalism” — a recognition of the failings of “neoliberalism, the idea that a market economy with a few light guardrails is the best way to organize a society.” This intellectual climate may result in greater receptivity among voters to more radical proposals.The willingness of voters to support Democrats who are pushing initiatives like these will depend in large part, however, on the ability of candidates to assure the general electorate that their agenda is beneficial to all and not just to favored liberal constituencies. This will be difficult, given the fact that what is being proposed is a much larger role for government, and that those who are most in need of government support are in the bottom half of the income distribution and disproportionately minority — in a country with a long racist history. As a presidential candidate, Barack Obama was able to overcome this barrier twice, but the challenge should not be minimized.I invite you to follow me on Twitter, @Edsall.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Thomas B. Edsall has been a contributor to The Times Opinion section since 2011. His column on strategic and demographic trends in American politics appears every Wednesday. He previously covered politics for The Washington Post.   @edsall 

FeatureThe former Senate majority leader on President Trump and Senator Chuck Schumer, and on why he doesn’t regret ending the filibuster for judicial appointments.Harry Reid in Nevada in December.CreditCreditDan Winters for The New York TimesSupported byBy Mark LeibovichEarly on the afternoon of Dec. 11, about an hour after an Oval Office meeting between President Trump, the Senate minority leader Chuck Schumer and the incoming House speaker Nancy Pelosi devolved on live TV into a shouting match — a “tinkle contest with a skunk,” in Pelosi’s postgame grandiloquence — I pulled up to a McMansion in a gated community outside Las Vegas. I presented my ID and pre-issued bar-code pass to a security guard. Another guard emerged from a sedan in the driveway, instructed me to leave my rental car across the street and pointed me to the front door.“I put this out here because I knew you were coming,” Harry Reid, the former Senate leader, said, pointing to a large gold menorah on his desk. It was not clear whether Reid had someone buy the menorah especially for my visit or just keeps one lying around in case some reporter of (nominal) Jewish identity happens to drop by around Hanukkah. (Reid’s wife, Landra, was raised in a Jewish household in Los Angeles before she and Reid converted to Mormonism together, after they married.) Either way, Reid seemed both amused and pleased with himself, as if he could see that I was not quite sure how to receive this odd-duck gesture. During his time in office, he always got a kick out of embracing the awkward panders of political life, even if — especially if — they mocked the refinements of smoother politicians than him.Reid, who is 79, does not have long to live. I hate to be so abrupt about this, but Reid probably would not mind. In May, he went in for a colonoscopy, the results of which caused concern among his doctors. This led to an M.R.I. that turned up a lesion on Reid’s pancreas: cancer. Reid’s subdued and slightly cold manner, and aggressive anticharisma, have always made him an admirably blunt assessor of situations, including, now, his own: “As soon as you discover you have something on your pancreas, you’re dead.”I had planned to visit Reid, who had not granted an interview since his cancer diagnosis, in November, but he put me off, saying he felt too weak. People close to him were saying that he had months left, if not weeks. Valedictories were planned, and lifetime awards were bestowed. Efforts were underway to rename the Las Vegas airport in his honor, preferably before his own time of departure. Reid refuses to believe that this honor will ever happen. “When I practiced law, I did a lot of personal-injury work, and I never spent one penny until that check was cashed,” he explained to me.When I went to see him in December, he was confined to a desk near the front door of the house, unable to move without the aid of a walker that rested behind him. Still, he looked better than I thought he would. The last time I saw Reid, during the 2016 presidential campaign, he was wearing dark glasses and was still bruised from a freakish exercise-session mishap in early 2015, when an elastic band apparently snapped and propelled him into some cabinets, breaking ribs and bones in his face and blinding him in his right eye. The visible damage from this incident had abated at last. Wearing a tan sweater over a dress shirt, he looked about how he did a decade ago: roughly his current age, in other words.Reid’s health, even before the cancer diagnosis, was a factor in opting not to seek re-election for a sixth Senate term in 2016. Over the last few months, he has had chemotherapy and two back surgeries and has suffered a range of other ordeals, some related to the accident, for which Trump delighted in mocking him. “I think he should go back and start working out again with his rubber workout pieces,” Trump said in an interview with The Washington Post in September 2016.In fairness, Reid had dismissed Trump as a “spoiled brat,” a “con man” and a “human leech.” As Senate majority leader, Reid was essential to passing President Barack Obama’s legislative agenda, but his dead-eyed realism and morose tones always hung in contrast to the hope-and-change intoxications of those years. His den is adorned with a bright painted portrait of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. — one of his heroes, whose view that “the arc of the moral universe is long, but it bends toward justice” was often echoed by Obama. But Reid himself always seemed more predisposed to believing that the arc of the universe bent toward an ornery brawl.Reid once called the Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan a “political hack,” Justice Clarence Thomas “an embarrassment” and President George W. Bush a “loser” (for which he later apologized) and a “liar” (for which he did not). In 2016, he dismissed Trump as “a big fat guy” who “didn’t win many fights.” Reid himself was more than ready to fight, and fight dirty: “I was always willing to do things that others were not willing to do,” he told me.During the 2012 presidential campaign, he claimed, with no proof, that Mitt Romney had not paid any taxes over the past decade. Romney released tax returns showing that he did. After the election, Reid told CNN by way of self-justification, “Romney didn’t win, did he?” Reid took rightful criticism over this. Still, in retrospect, there’s something almost quaint about the outrage over the episode; Trump routinely surpasses Reid’s unscrupulousness with a few tweets before breakfast.Leaving Washington on the eve of Trump’s takeover, Reid insisted that he was happy to be escaping. Maybe, he allowed, it would have been different if Hillary Clinton had won. But “with this, no,” he told New York magazine at the time. “I’m not going to miss it.”And yet, two years later, it was easy to sense him pining for not just the political action but also the particular political action of Trump’s Washington. “No one would enjoy the fight with Trump like Harry Reid would,” said Senator Claire McCaskill, the Missouri Democrat who lost her re-election race in November. The president “is an inherently weak man,” she said. “Harry would smell the weakness and say, ‘Damn the consequences.’ ”In some ways, Washington, under Trump, has devolved into the feral state that Reid, in his misanthropic heart, always knew it could become under the right conditions. Politicians are always claiming to be eternal optimists; Reid is no optimist. “I figure, if you’re pessimistic, you’re never disappointed,” he told me.Reid has decided to live out his last years in Henderson, a fast-growing and transient Las Vegas suburb. His house is in the upscale Anthem neighborhood: a fortified village of beige dwellings of various sizes and otherwise indistinguishable appearances. There is a Witness Protection Program vibe to the place, accentuated by the security detail.Reid attended high school in Henderson, hitchhiking 45 miles each way from his hometown, Searchlight: a drive-through smudge of a town between Las Vegas and Needles, Calif., which, in his youth, boasted at least a half-dozen brothels and not a single church. His acidic outlook was informed by his childhood, during which he endured extreme poverty and dysfunction and substance abuse in his family. He took up boxing in high school and put himself through George Washington University Law School by working as a Capitol Police officer. Back in Nevada, he was schooled in the piranha bowl of Las Vegas politics. This education included a stint as Nevada’s gaming chairman in the 1970s, which placed him in the cross hairs of the Las Vegas mob. (Some of the plot of the film “Casino” was based loosely on Reid’s experiences.) There were numerous threats to his life and at least one actual attempt (a bomb discovered under the hood of his family car).The former F.B.I. director James Comey, after he was fired by Trump, compared Trump to the head of a mafia family, with its codes of silence and loyalty, its fear-based leadership style and fealty to a single godfather. “It’s not about anything else except the boss,” Comey said in a recent interview at the 92nd Street Y in New York. Others have drawn the same parallel, and I asked Reid if, given his unusually relevant professional experience in this area, it rang true. Reid expelled a quick and dismissive chuckle. “Organized crime is a business,” he told me, “and they are really good with what they do. But they are better off when things are predictable. In my opinion, they do not do well with chaos. And that’s what we have going with Trump.”Still, Reid added: “Trump is an interesting person. He is not immoral but is amoral. Amoral is when you shoot someone in the head, it doesn’t make a difference. No conscience.” There was a hint of grudging respect in Reid’s tone, which he seemed to catch and correct. “I think he is without question the worst president we’ve ever had,” he said. “We’ve had some bad ones, and there’s not even a close second to him.” He added: “He’ll lie. He’ll cheat. You can’t reason with him.” Once more, a hint of wonder crept into his voice, as if he was describing a rogue beast on the loose in a jungle that Reid knows well.The Trump era and Reid’s illness have occasioned an inevitable reconsideration of Reid’s legacy and all its contradictions. The Affordable Care Act, which Reid managed to navigate past the oppositional tactics of his persistent nemesis, the Republican Senate leader (and now majority leader), Mitch McConnell, has so far withstood McConnell and Trump’s efforts to dismantle the legislation. Reid was also prescient in urging the Obama administration and congressional Republicans to go public about the investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 election; the letter that Republican leaders agreed to co-sign weeks after they were briefed on the investigation did not identify Russia by name. “They did nothing — or nothing that I’m aware of,” Reid said.But McConnell’s and Trump’s own most substantial accomplishment to date, the appointment to the federal bench of an unprecedented number of conservative judges, including two Supreme Court justices who might well end up hearing a challenge to the Affordable Care Act, was made vastly easier by Reid’s decision, in 2013, to get rid of the filibuster for judicial appointments. Reid remains unrepentant about this. “They can say what they want,” he told me. “We had over 100 judges that we couldn’t get approved, so I had no choice. Either Obama’s presidency would be a joke or Obama’s presidency would be one of fruition.”Still, a certain nostalgia for the Senate leader has set in among Democrats, even those who had their disagreements with him. McCaskill was critical of Reid during their tenure together and did not back him for caucus leader in 2014. There are two major components of a Senate leader’s job, she said. “One is to make the trains run on time and getting things done that his caucus believes in,” McCaskill told me. “But the trains need to be bright and shiny while they’re running,” she added, referring to the communication and messaging part of the job that she said Reid was less well suited to.McCaskill told Reid at the time that she did not plan to vote for him and explained her reasons to him. He replied that she was the only one of his nonsupporters who had the nerve to tell him directly. “Oh, no, why would I?” Reid told me when I asked him if he felt betrayed. “And I won, didn’t I?”Reid’s successor is Chuck Schumer, his former caucus deputy who engineered much of the Senate Democrats’ communications and campaign strategy during Reid’s tenure. They had been close during Reid’s 12 years as Democratic leader, Reid serving as the arid desert yin to Schumer’s bombastic Brooklyn yang. When we spoke, Reid told me he did not wish to be seen as second-guessing Schumer. “My personal feeling should have nothing to do with it,” he said. But clearly Reid has more than a few of those personal feelings. He has told confidants that he felt Schumer was too eager to assume his job before Reid was ready to leave. Reid has also criticized, privately, Schumer’s instinct for accommodation with both McConnell and Trump.In our conversation, Reid seemed incapable of not constantly reminding me that he did not wish to talk about Schumer, as if this itself was something he wanted me to emphasize. “I do not call Schumer,” he told me. Then: “I call him once in a while — not weekly. Let’s say monthly I may call him.” This sounded straightforward enough until he added: “I talk to Nancy often. I love Nancy Pelosi. We did so many good things, and we still talk about that.” And just the day before, he said, he called Richard Durbin, the Illinois Democrat who, along with Schumer, was Reid’s top lieutenant in the Senate and is now Schumer’s Democratic whip. “We came to the House together in 1982,” Reid said of Durbin. “We had wonderful conversations.” (Schumer declined to be interviewed; his spokesman said in a statement that Schumer and Reid “have different styles but they complemented each other well. They are still good friends and talk regularly.”)In fairness, there’s little that any Democratic leader can do at a time when the opposing party controls the presidency and both houses of Congress, as Republicans did until this month. Durbin told me that he has sat with Schumer and Trump together at the White House. “They are discussing things at a New York level that most of us on the outside don’t understand,” Durbin said. “With Chuck, it’s his grandfather who had some business with Trump’s father or some darned thing. It’s a totally different ballgame.”I asked Durbin whether this approach had yielded any results. “The obvious answer,” he conceded, “is it hasn’t worked very well so far.”David Krone, Reid’s former chief of staff, is of the view that leaving Washington saved Reid’s life. “He wouldn’t be alive today if he had pancreatic cancer and he was still the Senate leader,” he told me. “He would not have made it.” Still, Krone said, “I think he misses it, definitely.”When he was in Washington, Reid used to spend an inordinate amount of time on the Senate floor. “I was always afraid that I would miss something,” Reid used to say and told me again in Nevada. In retirement, he said, “For me to sit here and say I don’t follow politics — you wouldn’t believe me, O.K.?”On the Friday afternoon before Christmas, just hours before the government shut down over Trump’s demands for more funding for a border wall, I called Reid to see how closely he was following this latest brinkmanship. “Landra and I have been watching the news; we have it on now,” Reid told me. The shutdown, he allowed, was “interesting.” Reid takes an anthropological interest in the changes that Trump has wrought on his old institution. “You can’t legislate when you have a chief executive who’s weird, for lack of a better description,” he told me. He said he could never understand how his former Senate colleague Jeff Sessions allowed himself to be so abused and humiliated by the president. “Why in the hell didn’t Sessions leave?” he said. “Same with Kelly,” referring to the departing chief of staff, John Kelly. “I’d say, ‘Go screw yourself.’ I could not look my children in the eye.”I asked him if he could identify at all with Trump’s dark worldview. “I disagree that Trump is a pessimist,” Reid said, as if to allow him that mantle would be paying him an undeserved compliment. “I think he’s a person who is oblivious to the real world.”One of Reid’s assets as a leader, when he was in office, was his willingness to feed the egos of his colleagues before his own; he was happy to yield credit, attention and TV appearances. Yet when I visited Reid in Nevada, I detected a whiff of, if not neediness per se, maybe a need to remind me that he has not been forgotten. He told me that he received a lovely call that morning from Barbara Boxer, the former Democratic senator from California. He gets calls from his former colleagues all the time, he said, and they tell Reid he is missed. He had a final conversation with John McCain over the summer, just before McCain died, punctuated with “I love you”s.Reading Reid can be difficult. Is he playing a game or working an angle or even laughing at a private joke he just told himself? When speaking of his final goodbye with McCain, he broke into a strange little grin, his lips pressed upward as if he could have been stifling either amusement or tears. It occurred to me that Reid, typically as self-aware as he is unsentimental, could have been engaged in a gentle playacting of how two old Senate combatants of a fast-vanishing era are supposed to say goodbye to each other for posterity.Reid seemed to recognize my puzzlement and shrugged. “As has been written since I left,” he told me, “I was kind of a strange guy.”Mark Leibovich is the chief national correspondent for the magazine.

Supported byBy The New York TimesWilliam P. Barr appeared in front of the Senate Judiciary Committee on Tuesday for the first day of his confirmation hearing for attorney general. Mr. Barr pledged to allow the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, to finish his investigation and promised to withstand political pressure from President Trump or other forces, saying his age, 68, and experience freed him to act independently. Mr. Barr unexpectedly qualified some of his unusually expansive views of executive power. He emphasized legal limits on the presidency and law enforcement independence. Mr. Barr defended as “entirely proper” an unsolicited memo he wrote criticizing Mr. Mueller’s examination of whether the president obstructed justice. key momentMr. Barr used his opening remarks to the committee to clarify that he has no intention of firing Mr. Mueller before his work is done and to indicate that he would provide “as much transparency as I can consistent with the law” around the investigation’s results. The rule of law, he insisted, should be above and outside of the politics that divide the nation.“It is in the best interest of everyone — the president, Congress and, most importantly, the American people — that this matter be resolved by allowing the special counsel to complete his work,” Mr. Barr said. He added: “I will follow the special counsel regulations scrupulously and in good faith, and on my watch, Bob will be allowed to finish.”Mr. Mueller is believed to be in the final stages of his inquiry, which he took over from the F.B.I. in May 2017 after agents opened it nearly two and a half years ago.“The country needs a credible resolution of these issues,” Mr. Barr said.The fate of Mr. Mueller’s findings — an expected report — was a recurring topic. Mr. Barr said that Mr. Mueller’s report to the attorney general will be “confidential,” but the attorney general will then produce his own report to Congress based on that material. He said that he intended to be as transparent as possible given grand-jury secrecy rules, but that he would not let the White House edit or change it, as the president’s lawyer, Rudy Giuliani, has suggested may happen.“That will not happen,” Mr. Barr said.— Nicholas Fandos7:39 P.M.Throughout the hearing, Mr. Barr espoused surprisingly more moderate views than he has previously, and not only about presidential power and law-enforcement independence. He also found himself backpedaling a bit when pressed about his defense of Mr. Trump's push for an investigation into Hillary Clinton. Mr. Barr had said in 2017 that he saw far more basis to investigate the Obama administration’s approval of the sale of a Canadian mining company to a Russian state-owned corporation than to investigate possible Trump campaign coordination with Russia’s election interference.The sale, which was approved while Hillary Clinton was secretary of state, has been the subject of a conspiracy theory about Mrs. Clinton and her family’s foundation that circulates in some conservative circles despite being debunked.Mr. Barr initially suggested his comment, which appeared in a New York Times article, had been mischaracterized. The reporter who wrote the article, Peter Baker, tweeted Mr. Barr’s 2017 email containing the comment in full, putting to rest the possibility of misinterpretation. Senator Richard Blumenthal, Democrat of Connecticut, later read aloud from the tweeted email during the hearing, noting that Mr. Barr had testified earlier about the seriousness of Russia’s election meddling and pressing him about why he would assert that the Uranium One sale deserved more scrutiny. Mr. Barr hemmed and hawed, acknowledging that he had “no specific information about Uranium One that would say that it had not been handled appropriately” and that he did not mean the Clinton Foundation merited a criminal investigation.He suggested that he been “using it really as an example of the kinds of things that were floating around and some people felt had to be looked at” too, to make the point that calling for investigations into political opponents was bad: “I don’t subscribe to this ‘lock her up’ stuff,” he said, referring to a popular chant at Mr. Trump’s political rallies about jailing Mrs. Clinton.— Charlie Savage5:51 P.M.The Justice Department has held for decades time that indicting or criminally prosecuting a president while in office would violate the Constitution by undermining his ability to do his job. Despite a spirited legal debate about the validity of those opinions, Mr. Barr said he saw no reason to revisit them.“I actually haven’t read those opinions in a long time, but I see no reason to change them,” he said, in response to prompt by Senator Richard Blumenthal, Democrat of Connecticut, who said he believed the president could be indicted while in office and a trial postponed until his time there ended.— Nicholas Fandos5:32 P.M.Democrats tried repeatedly to get Mr. Barr to chastise Mr. Trump for his attacks on federal law enforcement and condemn his fanciful use of facts. Mr. Barr did not take the bait, and his response may offer an early glimpse of how he might navigate one of the most uncomfortable positions in the government — overseeing and defending an investigation loathed by the president who nominated him.Even as he offered a consistent defense of Mr. Mueller (“I have the utmost respect for Bob”) and pledged to defend his investigation, Mr. Barr pointedly declined to criticize the president directing unrelenting attacks on investigators and elements of the Justice Department itself. And he said he was not concerned by what Senator Mazie Hirono, Democrat of Hawaii, called “the way Donald Trump undermines the institutions in our society that help us to maintain a moral consensus” with false information.Instead, Mr. Barr suggested that the president’s position was a reasonable one, at least as it pertained to the Mueller inquiry.“It’s understandable that if someone felt they were falsely accused they would view an investigation as something like a witch hunt where someone like you or me who doesn’t know the facts, you know, might not use that term,” Mr. Barr said.— Nicholas Fandos5:06 P.M.Senators of both parties extended career guidance, praise and even snacks to Liam Daly, Mr. Barr’s young grandson who sat through the hourslong hearing.Liam’s parents are both Justice Department leaders, and he was deeply engaged in the confirmation process.“You are doing great so far,” he wrote in a note to Mr. Barr that was captured by a Reuters photographer. “I am having so much fun.”After Mr. Barr said that Russia posed a threat to the United States, Liam offered a subtle adjustment. “I think Russia’s people are fine,” he wrote to his grandfather. “The government is the problem.”Liam, 8, is also an avid reader of the children’s edition of The New York Times, a Justice Department official confirmed; Mr. Barr’s wife bought him a subscription. Liam found a recent article on the Supreme Court interesting, the official said.— Katie Benner4:10 P.M.Senators have asked Mr. Barr about the last attorney general. They have called out former top F.B.I. officials by name. And they have spent an inordinate amount of time playfully counseling his grandson by name. But they have hardly mentioned the acting attorney general, Matthew G. Whitaker.Mr. Whitaker had proven to be a lightning rod for scrutiny since he took over the Justice Department when former Attorney General Jeff Sessions was fired late last year. He ignored the advice of ethics experts at the department and decided to take a direct role overseeing the Mueller investigation, an inquiry of which he has been highly critical, and Democrats argue that his temporary appointment was legally dubious in the first place.Democrats on the House Judiciary Committee announced on Tuesday that they had reached an agreement for Mr. Whitaker to testify in public on Feb. 8. The committee’s chairman, Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, said he expected Mr. Whitaker to appear “whether or not the current lapse in appropriations has been resolved, and whether or not the Senate has confirmed a new attorney general.”— Nicholas Fandos4:03 P.M.Mr. Barr took a hawkish stance on China that comports with the Trump administration’s view, calling it “the primary rival of the United States” and praising former Attorney General Jeff Sessions for cracking down on Chinese intellectual property theft and espionage.While he was general counsel of Verizon, Mr. Barr said, he was well aware of the potential national security threat posed by the Chinese telecommunications and tech equipment companies Huawei and ZTE. The intelligence community has long warned that firms were too close to the Chinese government and that they could use their products to monitor communications on behalf of Beijing.— Katie Benner3:35 P.M.Under questioning by Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, Mr. Barr pledged to obey and uphold a 2015 law that restricts interrogators to the techniques listed in the Army Field Manual.“That was an important change because I think it gave clarity to the law and I will support that,” Mr. Barr said.Ms. Feinstein, who chaired the Senate Intelligence Committee when it produced a lengthy investigative report about the C.I.A.’s torture program under the Bush administration, noted that it had relied upon secret memos by the Justice Department’s Office of Legal Counsel blessing techniques like extended sleep deprivation and the suffocation tactic known as waterboarding despite anti-torture laws.She also noted that in 2005, Mr. Barr had defended President Bush’s purported legal right to withhold Geneva Convention protections from terrorism detainees and to submit them to coercive interrogation, including “inflicting pain, discomfort and other things to make people talk” so long as it does not involve “the gratuitous barbarity involved in torture.”Pressed by Ms. Feinstein about whether waterboarding counted as torture, Mr. Barr said he did not know if it counted as such under the law in 2005, but that because of the newer law, “right now it’s prohibited, so, you know, the law has definitively dealt with that.”— Charlie Savage3:22 P.M.Their tones were starkly different, but a coalition of liberal and conservative senators who teamed up last year to push into law major revisions to federal sentencing and prison laws pressed to make sure Mr. Barr understood that times had changed since he was last in office.“During your previous tenure as attorney general, you literally wrote the book on mass incarceration or wrote this report,” said Senator Cory Booker, Democrat of New Jersey, referencing a 1992 Justice Department memorandum, “The Case for More Incarceration.” Mr. Booker urged Mr. Barr to say that the spike in incarceration caused by those policies had disproportionately affected black Americans.Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, sought assurances that Mr. Barr that he would implement the new bill, which lowers mandatory minimum sentences for nonviolent drug offenders, promotes anti-recidivism programs, and expands early release.The short answer was yes, but Mr. Barr bristled at the suggestion he was hostile to the bill. He said he viewed tough-on-crime policies of the 1980s and 1990s, when he was last in office, as responsible for the ensuing drop in violent crime.“I don’t think comparing the policies that were in effect in 1992 to the situation now is really fair,” he told Mr. Grassley. He added, “I think the time was right to take stock and make changes to our penal system based on our current experience.”— Nicholas Fandos2:44 p.m.Democratic senators wanted other assurances of noninterference, too, particularly for regular federal prosecutors who be separately investigating Mr. Trump or building cases that could be damaging to his interests. Here, Mr. Barr drew a distinction between the special counsel’s investigation, which is governed by special rules, and matters considered through the department’s normal channels.“I have the responsibility to use my judgment and discretion that are inherent in the office of attorney general to supervise,” he said, referring to cases brought through the usual order. To let individual U.S. attorney’s work without supervision or make assurances about individual investigations would be an abdication of that responsibility, he said.Mr. Barr said that he would not stand for efforts to interfere or scuttle investigations within the department for political reasons, but offered a caveat about presidential power.“I would not stand by and allow, you know, an investigation to be stopped if I thought it was a lawful investigation,” he said. “I wouldn’t stand by for that, but the president is free to fire his, you know, officials that he’s appointed.”Democrats had at least one high-profile case in mind. Prosecutors in the Southern District of New York have built a case that has implicated Mr. Trump in a scheme to pay hush money to two women during the 2016 campaign to stop them from speaking publicly about affairs they said they had with him.“The point is,” Mr. Barr said, “if someone tried to stop a bona fide, lawful investigation to cover up wrongdoing, I would resign.”— Nicholas Fandos1:19 P.M.Asked whether he would consider jailing journalists “for doing their jobs,” Mr. Barr paused before explaining that he could conceive of situations “as a last resort” where a news organization or journalist needs to be held accountable for “putting out stuff that they know will harm the country.”The Justice Department has cracked down in recent years on government employees who share classified information with reporters. Under former President Barack Obama, the Justice Department prosecuted more leaks than all previous administrations combined. Reporters are loathe to reveal sources, and some have been jailed for refusing a judge’s orders to do so.Mr. Barr’s hesitation may have been because of the Justice Department’s long pursuit of the WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange over the site’s publication of troves of secret government papers. Obama-era lawyers debated whether to charge him but held off because they could never decide on a clear answer to the question of how his work differed from that of traditional news organizations.But prosecutors have secretly charged him, they mistakenly revealed last year, raising questions of whether they set aside concerns about setting a precedent that would chill press freedoms because of WikiLeaks’ release of stolen Democratic emails that Russian intelligence operatives hacked during the 2016 election. — Katie BennerFrom the archives1 P.M.Mr. Barr said he agrees with the president about the need to change the nation’s immigration laws, including his demand for a border wall that has prompted the nation’s longest government shutdown.“We need money right now for border security — including barriers and walls and slats and other things,” Mr. Barr said, “anything that makes sense in different areas of the border.”Tuesday marked the 25th day of the partial government shutdown with little indication that Mr. Trump and congressional Democrats were any closer to a compromise on funding for a border wall.Mr. Barr said he would like to see an agreement between lawmakers and the president that recognizes the need for border security, “and part of that common-sense matter needs barriers.”— Eileen Sullivan11:45 A.M.Asked what he would do if confronted with a situation where he might have to resign, Mr. Barr cited his age and his previous stint as attorney general to say he will be unshackled from politics to make the right decision, regardless of whether it is politically prudent for his career or for the president.“It might give me pause if I was 45 or 50 years old, but it doesn’t give me pause right now,” said Mr. Barr, 68.He added: “I will not be bullied into doing anything I think is wrong by anybody whether it be editorial boards or Congress or the president. I’m going to do what I think is right.”— Michael S. Schmidt11:20 A.M.Mr. Barr has long advanced an unusually expansive view of executive authority. He has portrayed the president, not the attorney general, as the nation’s top law-enforcement official, and suggested that Congress cannot bar a president from using his executive powers — like to pardon someone or “start or stop a law enforcement proceeding” — in a corrupt way.This has raised the question of whether his permissive theories would unleash Mr. Trump, who is not known for his self-restraint. But in several ways on Tuesday, Mr. Barr appeared to walk back or qualify some of his earlier writings, putting greater emphasis on the Justice Department’s independence and legal limits on the presidency.For example, Mr. Barr said that if a president directed the Justice Department to close an investigation to protect himself or his family, that would violate the Constitution. And asked by Senator Patrick Leahy, Democrat of Vermont, whether a president could pardon someone in exchange for a promise not to incriminate him, Mr. Barr said “that would be a crime.”— Charlie Savage10:38 A.M.Mr. Barr defended as “entirely proper” his decision to write an unsolicited, lengthy memo to the Trump administration legal team in June arguing that Mr. Mueller should not be permitted to investigate the president for violating criminal obstruction-of-justice laws based on how he chose to exercise his constitutional powers, like to fire a subordinate or order an investigation closed.Mr. Barr stressed that he was “in the dark” about what Mr. Mueller’s obstruction theory was, and said that he was merely speculating. He emphasized that his concern was the “ramifications down the road” of establishing such a rule.“One theory in particular that appeared to be under consideration under a specific statute concerned me because I thought it would involve stretching the statute beyond what was intended and would do it in a way that would have serious adverse consequences for all agencies that are involved in the administration of justice, especially the Department of Justice,” he said. “And I thought it would have a chilling effect going forward over time.”— Charlie Savage10:12 A.M.Ms. Feinstein read excerpts from Mr. Barr’s writings on a president’s purported power to control all law-enforcement activity and said she intended to press him on whether he would resist political interference from Mr. Trump, noting his calls for new criminal inquiries into Democrats like Hillary Clinton.“It’s important that the next attorney general be able to strongly resist pressure, whether from the administration or Congress to conduct investigations for political purposes,” she said. “You must have the integrity, the strength and the fortitude to tell the president ‘no,’ regardless of the consequences.”In his opening statement, Mr. Barr appeared to embrace that principle.“The attorney general must ensure that the administration of justice, the enforcement of the law, is above and away from politics,” he said. “Nothing could be more destructive of our system of government, of the rule of law, or the Department of Justice as an institution than any toleration of political interference with the enforcement of the law.”— Charlie Savage10:02 A.M.Mr. Barr briefly spoke of his commitment to public service and the Justice Department. He noted that most of his children are government lawyers, including one in a top position at the Justice Department. One of his three daughters coordinates the department’s response to the opioid crisis, and a son-in-law also works in the department’s national security division.“Somebody needs to make money in the family,” joked Mr. Graham.— Katie BennerWhen Mr. Barr was nominated to serve as attorney general the first time in 1991, the Democratic Senate unanimously confirmed him by voice vote. He should not expect such a smooth ride this time around, but with Republicans in control of the chamber by a 53-to-47 majority, his confirmation appears to be on track.Two wild cards could scramble the usual partisan divide. A handful of moderate Republicans facing re-election fights in 2020 or simply skeptical of Mr. Trump’s intentions could theoretically swing against Mr. Barr if he fails to convince them that he would stand up for the special counsel. If these senators — Cory Gardner of Colorado, Susan Collins of Maine, Thom Tillis of North Carolina, Mitt Romney of Utah and others — banded together with a united Democratic caucus, they could kill the confirmation.But Democrats may also be motivated to quickly move Mr. Barr through confirmation. They have been highly critical of the acting attorney general, Matthew G. Whitaker, a Trump loyalist whom they view as a direct threat to Mr. Mueller, and want him out of office as quickly as possible. If they view Mr. Barr as sincere in his public assurances about the investigation, it is a swap many Democrats might eagerly make.— Nicholas Fandos

Supported byStuff and ThingsA small and powerful society of Viners create Amazon’s reality. But is there such a thing as too much free stuff?By John HerrmanA U.P.S. driver once said the house set his delivery record: 32 packages in one day. There have been bigger days since, and the burden is now spread across three carriers. Most of it falls to the local postal carriers. They used to make the rounds in a sedan until the sheer volume of packages delivered up the hill each week required them to upgrade to a truck. The boxes have slowed lately, but something arrives almost every day. The boxes crowd the porch — this is up in a tranquil stretch of the Blue Ridge Mountains — before gradually making their way inside, past the patio table, which came from a box, and its four chairs, from boxes all. The living room was largely furnished from the boxes: a couch, an end table, rugs, the love seat. In the bedroom, the boxes account for artwork, linens, a clothes rack, the mattress and several pillows, of course. The extra window unit air-conditioners: white boxes from brown boxes. The kitchen is stocked from the flow of boxes — the knife block, the espresso machine, the convection oven — as are the home’s closets. The office is almost all box — furniture, printers (regular and 3-D), computer, at least 13 hard drives and four routers. The art on the walls came this way; the new shelves installed to store the items from the porch boxes came through porch boxes. The camera system through which the porch boxes are surveilled was itself unpacked from a porch box. The worry is thieves, though the camera mostly catches wildlife: rabbits, turkeys and mice, with an elk every once in a while, and, so far, one coyote and a bear.K.T., 54, shares this home, and these boxes, with her husband and two dogs. She’s a volunteer animal rescue transport driver and a former proofreader, but now much of her time and attention is devoted to box intake and processing. She does most of her shopping online, she said; the nearest town only has about a thousand residents, and it’s usually more convenient to order. That, and the fact the vast majority of these boxes arrive free of charge courtesy of Amazon itself.K.T. is an Amazon “Vine Voice.” Amazon sends her free stuff; she, as an established and trusted reviewer, tests it out and writes reviews. During a recent gathering she joked with family that her spouse was wearing Vine socks, Vine jeans, a Vine shirt, Vine underwear, and had on Vine cologne. There are thousands of Vine Voices, but K.T. is almost certainly among the most prolific. Over the years, she has passed in and out of Amazon’s overall Top 100 reviewer rankings. The Times agreed to not identify her. For Vine reviewers, identifying information — names, email addresses, websites — can be construed as a solicitation for free products from non-Vine sources, which Amazon can decide is grounds for removal from the program.And K.T. takes her responsibilities seriously, dedicating time to each new item that emerges from the boxes and writing reviews that are succinct but complete. She helps run an online community for other Vine Voices — there’s another Viner in her town; she traveled out of state to meet the co-moderator of her community, whom she considers a close friend — and has reshaped her life around the program. “It’s only been about three years,” she said, “so I’m sort of new.”If you invested $5,000 in Amazon in August of 2007, when Vine was announced, your stock would now be worth more than $100,000. If, instead, you had started reviewing your Amazon purchases, built a reputation as a reliable reviewer, secured an invite to the Vine program, kept your head down, filed your assignments and avoided the occasional purges of reviewers, your take-home total might today exceed that number, although in somewhat less liquid forms: five vacuums here; 14 hard drives there; some laptops and cellphones; Bluetooth speakers, and headphones, and headsets, and, well, pretty much anything with Bluetooth, so much Bluetooth, mouthful after mouthful of blue teeth. The program was intended, in the company’s telling, to help its vendors “generate awareness for new and prerelease products” by “connecting them with the voice of the Amazon community.” Then, as now, but especially then, the Amazon reviewer community was at turns close-knit and competitive. “Being part of the Vine program at the very beginning gave me a sense of duty,” said Diana de Avila, who had already been writing Amazon reviews since the mid ’90s. “I thought, oh my gosh, this large, emerging company is just growing by leaps and bounds, and they wanted me to be part of this apparatus,” she said. In 2007 it was, as apparatuses go, primitive. On the third Thursday of each month, Ms. de Avila would take a seat at her computer a little before 3 p.m. and start refreshing, knowing that around the country, other Viners were doing the same. A monthly list would be posted to an internal portal and go out in an email as well. There might be a dozen items, each in limited quantities. The lists were heavy on books at first. Many of them would be gone in seconds, she remembered, and there were often technical difficulties. “That was the excitement of it,” she said. “I was pretty quick at the draw, so I got some pretty good stuff,” Ms. de Avila said. “I got multiple cameras, video cameras, probably more than a dozen.”Sign up here to receive Wait —, a weekly newsletter in which Caity Weaver investigates a question in the news and pop culture.Users could then go to a special Vine-only forum on Amazon’s site and discuss what they’d gotten. It was a fairly small world — there weren’t very many products or very many reviewers and also there were limits on how many users could claim. The forum thrived and suffered in ways that were characteristic of online communities of the time: There were habitual posters, show-offs, trolls and critics, and of course a steady supply of know-nothing newbies, newly invited by Amazon. The company itself was nearly silent: Aside from occasional announcements and necessary interventions, it left the forum to the Vine reviewers. “I sometimes think that maybe Amazon was reading,” Ms. de Avila said.The program swelled in both membership and inventory. A monthly email from 2011, for example, contained over 400 items, including a baby food maker, a line of Taco Bell sauces, a package of sticky notes, a dispenser for sticky notes, a few wall mounts for TVs and books, lots of books. The letters “USB” appear 42 times. Vine was a relic of an older web for a long time. Email newsletters! User forums! But in 2016, the service received a substantial overhaul. The emails and posts were replaced with a pair of feeds: One was targeted to each individual Vine user, based on preferences and shopping habits, and the other was visible to everyone. Old limits were lifted: You could now review as many products as you wanted.In 2015, Amazon had begun asking Vine reviewers for their tax information, which meant that, over a certain value, Vine products were no longer free, really. Review products count as income; their tax value, as calculated by Amazon, can be a major factor in which products Vine reviewers choose to have delivered. The most prolific reviewers have tax burdens in the tens of thousands of dollars. There are rules, loosely enforced but taken seriously. Amazon-branded products belong to you immediately; other products can be recalled up to six months later, and therefore can’t be sold or given away. (This rarely happens, if ever. The boldest Viners sell products right away, while some become extremely generous with charity. A super-Viner almost doesn’t have a choice, for space reasons alone.)“We ask Vine Voices not to resell products for six months,” Angie Newman, an Amazon spokeswoman, said in an email. “After that, the product is theirs and they can use it or dispose of it as they see fit.”Many donate enough to alleviate their tax burdens, but no more, so as not to attract the wrong kind of attention to their arrangements, unique as they are, and lacking anything in the way of guidance from Amazon itself.Now Vine was recreated in the image of the internet around it — an internet of interminable feeds and customized content, an endless space that can be checked and rechecked but never quite finished, demanding as much as you’re willing to give it. If Facebook’s feed let you gorge on birth announcements and conspiracy theories, and Instagram’s on photos of dogs and, I guess, mimetic desire, Vine’s feed — similarly aware of your habits and always refreshed — opened the door to actual things, distributed in the manner of content. While most of us experience Amazon’s surveillance with a mixture of annoyance and bemusement — you are never allowed to forget what items you’ve looked at on Amazon, at least not until you buy them — Vine reviewers have learned to exploit it. “You can try to signal to it,” K.T. said. “I searched for drones, hoping they would show up in my targeting.” (No luck yet.) Sometimes Vine’s behaviors give the impression of something far less intelligent: Some Viners described getting clothing in more-or-less “random” sizes.In 2017, Amazon removed the Vine discussion forums from its site; Amazon didn’t share its reasons with Vine reviewers. (Logged-in reviewers still see a link to the forums on their profiles, but it leads nowhere.) To the extent there is a coherent Vine community still, it is spread across multiple private groups on Goodreads, the book review site owned by Amazon, and smaller communities further afield, on Reddit and Craigslist. They are throwbacks to the old Vine, and the old web: There are groups and splinter groups, cross-forum enemies, reputations and rivalries. Mostly, though, the forums serve the same needs that the old official forum did. They’re a place where people who are part of this odd program that they’re not supposed to talk about can figure out what’s going on in a system that changes constantly without notice, in the shadow of the company that is both an intense part of their lives and outwardly indifferent to their existence.In a Craigslist forum, for example, users spent recent weeks commiserating about their suddenly shrinking review queues. (They were restored shortly after, but posters weren’t happy with how: “Mine has been restocked as well, but with things I don’t need,“ said one. “That’s it — junk.” Another user warned others off a particular brand of chocolates he’d gotten for his wife: “They weren’t even edible and had a strange odor.” They discussed a recent investigation by the website The Verge into Amazon’s treatment of sellers (“great reading and it confirms everything we already know!”). They attempted to troubleshoot minor issues (Amazon’s brand Solimo, which makes a variety of household goods, seems to break the Vine interface for some reason) and major issues (a “technical error” reported last year, which exposed some Amazon users’ data, including email addresses, has created a huge problem for affected Vine reviewers: a flood of emails from overseas sellers attempting to bribe them for reviews and, in some cases, threatening to falsely tell Amazon that they’re doing it anyway). The forum has a resident tax expert.They talk about the weather, on planets Earth and Amazon. Reviewers are sometimes removed from the program without notice, or are reinstated. Sometimes they’re told they broke rules they didn’t believe they’d broken; other times, forum users are left to assume they’ve been culled by some sort of automated system designed to root out fraud, only to be brought back days later, after appeal. They’re also friends. K.T. described the old Vine forums as cliquish, and then, in their final days, gripped, like so many communities online, by politics. “They were all liberal, and a few of us weren’t, so they made an assumption that I support Trump,” she said, and that was that. She helps moderate one of the Goodreads forums now. It’s calmer. “‘What’s your life like?’ ‘What do you do?’ Then general happy stuff,” she said. “There’s a photo gallery thread for a member who is a great photographer.” “We are the same as any quilter’s group, or book club, that meets or chats about whatever common interests they enjoy,” she said. These are her Vine people. The other Goodreads forum has its Vine people too, and they all have Vine, and Amazon has them all.“From a sky-high view, the reason Amazon is so successful is that it’s easy for people to find things on Amazon,” said Rachel Johnson Greer, a former Amazon employee of eight years, and currently the managing partner of Cascadia Seller Solutions, a firm that helps sellers on Amazon’s Marketplace. But the pool of products Amazon now draws from is, in most categories, large and not readily countable. And so, as with Google search results, getting your product on the first page of results for a specific term — or giving it a chance of floating upward in one of the site’s countless recommendation or discovery mechanisms — is crucial. In its earliest days, Amazon operated in plainer view: Products were categorized, then found by customers, then reviewed by customers. The good stuff ranked higher, the junk drifted out of view. Now, when customers don’t just have countless alternatives to a particular product but multiple ways on the site to buy the same product, even a potentially beloved product needs a leg up. “It’s a little bit of a Catch-22,” said Ms. Greer. “To show up in search, you have to have been clicked. To have been clicked, you have to show up in search.” Your listings are more visible if people have clicked on and purchased your products.Handily, Amazon is also an advertising platform — you can pay for people to see your product when they search for or look at certain things. But the economics are punishing. “If there are no reviews, people won’t click,” said Ms. Greer. “If you have a product that dips below 3.5 or 4 stars, your advertising cost doubles or triples.” To get the same clicks, you have to do a lot more advertising. People aren’t as willing to convert when there are lower reviews, and they’re not as likely to click in the first place. To get the clicks, you need to bid higher.” In that case, you would turn to other methods. You can advertise on Google. (Expensive.) You can hire influencers. (Works for some, useless for others; risky.) Or you can consider Vine. Participation in Vine is usually negotiated as part of vendor contracts with Amazon, according to the company. “If you start off with 30 four-star reviews, you have a leg up on everybody,” Ms. Greer said. Amazon has been testing Vine for Marketplace members — semi-independent sellers who now account for a majority of Amazon’s total sales — who, in 2016, were prohibited from soliciting “incentivized reviews” on their own. The initial price quoted to sellers was $1,000 per unique catalog item.In her view, this strategy is effective and, for the right products, economical. Amazon is a largely click-driven ecosystem, and reviews are a great way to get clicks. The main risk, she says, is that some Vine reviewers can be picky. They get a lot of stuff; yours probably isn’t the first pair of wireless earbuds they’ve used, or even reviewed. A four-star review average gets you through the door. Below three stars might close it completely. The earbuds better work. For Amazon, Vine is a legitimate, or at least sanctioned, alternative to one of the churning black markets that have manifested around the company. In the course of trying to contact Vine reviewers, whose contact information is not available on their Amazon profiles, I discovered sites where their email addresses — not listed on Amazon, but apparently scraped or hacked — were available for sale. There have long been attempts to manufacture independent Vine programs of a sort. Unscrupulous vendors or sellers can pay click-farmers to view their product listings again and again, manufacturing interest, as far as Amazon is concerned, in products that were otherwise going unseen. The black market for reviews is, despite Amazon’s pledges to fight it, vast and largely out of the company’s control. The least sophisticated operations can be discovered with a quick search on Facebook or the messaging app Telegram, where “Review Groups” are full of instructions to buy a product, send a PayPal account to an email address, and to expect reimbursement, and maybe a little more, in return. With names like “US Reliable Reviewers-Free&amp;Discount Products,” some of these groups have thousands of members. Accordingly, fake — or at least unofficially incentivized — reviews are rampant on Amazon. A recent study by the e-commerce consultancy Fakespot estimated that 61 percent of electronics reviews are in violation of the site’s rules. Reporters at The Washington Post found that product ratings tended to drop when “questionable” reviews were removed. The question of whether Vine reviews themselves are tainted by the way in which the products are supplied is easy to recast in the context of rampant fraud: at least it’s out there in the open. (K.T., the Vine reviewer, took pride in her work; other Vine reviewers granted that some in the program really did just want free stuff, but insisted that those motivated for grift don’t last long.)“The whole process of reviews on Amazon can be really frustrating,” said Ms. Greer. “By default, Amazon created this problem by defining search results this way.” Amazon’s update to the adage includes the company’s name twice: You have to spend money on Amazon to make money on Amazon.Vine has a few plausible futures. Current users note that it is functionally sort of rickety — a mixture of old interfaces and new ones, clearly run by a relatively small team. In some ways, it has never fully grown up. When reviewers receive items, sometimes they’re affixed with cardboard tags, which Amazon uses to designate what sort of “sample” the shipment is. There are six check marks on the tag, categories that include “marketing” and ”pre-production” and “fitting.” There’s no box for Vine, so sometimes a seventh box gets penciled in, a hand-drawn one that is hand-labeled “Vine,” and then checked by the same hand. Maybe Vine gets sidelined, and replaced with something else — it’s been 10 years, anyway, and Amazon is always trying new things. (For example, it recently began rolling out a program to send free samples to users on behalf of major brands.) But the volume of products coming through Vine is still high, and the company clearly understands its utility beyond the fees it charges vendors. Amazon’s extensive and growing collection of private labels and exclusive brands also subscribes to the program, its listings topped up with conspicuously labeled Vine Voice reviews. Vine Voices make visible contributions to the ongoing construction of Amazon’s retail reality, review by review, star by star.Vine has already changed a lot, changing with it the lives of its reviewers. The life of a super-Viner is one for which not everyone is well adapted. Last year, on Reddit, a Vine reviewer who had been in the program since 2007 shared that she had been kicked out. “I’m getting ready to downsize,” she said, “and was so relieved to log in tonight and see that I am no longer a part of Amazon Vine.”She continued: “Pretty much my whole house is furnished with Amazon Vine. I eat Amazon Vine daily, and groom with Amazon Vine daily. I was no longer selective. I got divorced some years ago and it was nice to not want to take any material things with me because I knew goodies would be coming my way, and I was blessed with so much.” It’s a startling sentiment, to be relieved to no longer have access to, effectively, unlimited free stuff. But commenters — other Viners — were generally sympathetic. In a private message, she explained to me how she had drifted into a state of “overconsumption.” Things were exciting for a few years, she said, mentioning the same thrill in nabbing a good item, or a “shiny,” enjoying the rhythmic patterns of old Vine.But then the feed came along. “I found myself checking the queue a dozen times a day,” she said. “I didn’t want to miss the next great thing.”People tend to consider purchases. But when things are given to you, and it’s your job to review them, the value of the object gets scrambled in surprising ways, and its influence on your life becomes easy to minimize, or disregard. The free rug needs artwork to match. You wanted a road bike, but the beach cruiser was free, and now you have a bike, but you don’t really ride it. You get a Keurig, and you hate it, but Vine keeps sending K-cups, and so you keep drinking them. “Eventually, I think Vine caught on that I wanted a Nespresso from my search history,” she wrote, “and I was finally offered a Nespresso.” “I have eleven Vine watches, yet I only wear two on a regular basis,” she said. “Before Vine, I did not even own a watch, as I considered them old-fashioned when you can check the time on your cellphone.”Asked if she felt Vine had altered her relationship with material goods, K.T., the Vine reviewer in the Blue Ridge Mountains, suggested they consider how it might allow them to give back. “I pray for thanks and the blessing of Vine every day,” she said. She’s grateful, she says, not just to have access to this conduit of things that she might need or wants, or for the ways it allows her to be generous with other people, but for the task itself. “I’m just a regular person, I’ve got no claim to fame,” she said. “NASA isn’t calling on me,” she said. But Amazon is. Sort of.  Like many Viners, she been girding for bad news for years, just in case. “You’re getting so much good from this, and you’re not doing anything special,” she said. Her boxes — and what has effectively become her job — could cease tomorrow. “To Amazon, you’re abstract. For me. it’s an actual, physical, material manifestation. It’s here, it’s present in my life,” she said. “I’m just hoping that if I give quality reviews,” she said, trailing off. “Until it smacks me in the face, I don’t need to add complications in my life.”Ms. de Avila’s choice to leave Vine was a rare one. She echoed the sentiment shared on Reddit, that consumption divorced from what typically dictates it — not just price, but need and desire — can have surprising effects. In 2014, she moved to a smaller home in a new place. She started getting rid of stuff. She was getting behind on her reviews, and started to feel guilty. She was losing her Sundays to Vine, just to catch up, and the boxes just kept coming. “It was becoming more and more difficult to become excited about receiving gifts from people,” she said. “It was kind of like someone who wins the lottery.” It was too much stuff, and too much expectation. Perhaps it was her keener-than-usual awareness of how stuff fits into your life, or her previous experiences dealing with less-than-communicative omniscient beings. “I was a nun for seven years,” she said, “so I come from a different kind of material perspective: Take what you need. Don’t overuse.” But she was also a dedicated early adopter — she was a Google Glass Explorer, for example, helping the company test out its controversial and since-shelved smart glasses — and had been seeking a sense of purpose after retiring from her secular career in information technology. Ms. de Avila was also living with multiple sclerosis. Vine arrived at the right time. “It gave me a way to build meaning,” she said, “leaving a corporate job with a lot of responsibility.” Receiving boxes from Amazon, and completing the corresponding Vine tasks, gave her a temporary new identity.“I loved it,” she said, “I just knew it was time to step away.” When she did, she said, she was at peace. She doesn’t miss it. Lately, Ms. de Avila has been cultivating what she said was a “sudden-onset” new ability that she described as arriving after a relapse with multiple sclerosis, and has devoted herself to creating art. She is particularly drawn to fractals — images that are self-similar no matter their scale — and has been accepted into juried exhibitions near her home in Florida. “I’ve discovered that art has become the ultimate benefactor for me,” she wrote on her own website, where she sells her work directly to consumers. “Its gifts,” she said, “are bottomless.”John Herrman covers tech and media for the Times Magazine, and was one of the first three recipients of The Times's David Carr Fellowship. Previously, he was a reporter for the Business section.  @jwherrman 

