Supported byBy Nicole PerlrothSAN FRANCISCO — Businesses and government agencies in the United States have been targeted in aggressive attacks by Iranian and Chinese hackers who security experts believe have been energized by President Trump’s withdrawal from the Iran nuclear deal last year and his trade conflicts with China.Recent Iranian attacks on American banks, businesses and government agencies have been more extensive than previously reported. Dozens of corporations and multiple United States agencies have been hit, according to seven people briefed on the episodes who were not authorized to discuss them publicly.The attacks, attributed to Iran by analysts at the National Security Agency and the private security firm FireEye, prompted an emergency order by the Department of Homeland Security during the government shutdown last month.The Iranian attacks coincide with a renewed Chinese offensive geared toward stealing trade and military secrets from American military contractors and technology companies, according to nine intelligence officials, private security researchers and lawyers familiar with the attacks who discussed them on the condition of anonymity because of confidentiality agreements.A summary of an intelligence briefing read to The New York Times said that Boeing, General Electric Aviation and T-Mobile were among the recent targets of Chinese industrial-espionage efforts. The companies all declined to discuss the threats, and it is not clear if any of the hacks were successful.Chinese cyberespionage cooled four years ago after President Barack Obama and President Xi Jinping of China reached a landmark deal to stop hacks meant to steal trade secrets.But the 2015 agreement appears to have been unofficially canceled amid the continuing trade tension between the United States and China, the intelligence officials and private security researchers said. Chinese hacks have returned to earlier levels, although they are now stealthier and more sophisticated.“Cyber is one of the ways adversaries can attack us and retaliate in effective and nasty ways that are well below the threshold of an armed attack or laws of war,” said Joel Brenner, a former leader of United States counterintelligence under the director of national intelligence.Federal agencies and private companies are back to where they were five years ago: battling increasingly sophisticated, government-affiliated hackers from China and Iran — in addition to fighting constant efforts out of Russia — who hope to steal trade and military secrets and sow mayhem. And it appears the hackers substantially improved their skills during the lull.Russia is still considered America’s foremost hacking adversary. In addition to meddling widely and spreading disinformation during United States elections, Russian hackers are believed to have launched attacks on nuclear plants, the electrical grid and other targets.Threats from China and Iran never stopped entirely, but Iranian hackers became much less active after the nuclear deal was signed in 2015. And for about 18 months, intelligence officials concluded, Beijing backed off its 10-year online effort to steal trade secrets.But Chinese hackers have resumed carrying out commercially motivated attacks, security researchers and data-protection lawyers said. A priority for the hackers, researchers said, is supporting Beijing’s five-year economic plan, which is meant to make China a leader in artificial intelligence and other cutting-edge technologies.“Some of the recent intelligence collection has been for military purposes or preparing for some future cyber conflict, but a lot of the recent theft is driven by the demands of the five-year plan and other technology strategies,” said Adam Segal, the director of the cyberspace program at the Council on Foreign Relations. “They always intended on coming back.”Officials at the Chinese embassy in Washington did not respond to a request for comment.Mr. Segal and other Chinese security experts said attacks that once would have been conducted by hackers in China’s People’s Liberation Army are now being run by China’s Ministry of State Security.These hackers are better at covering their tracks. Rather than going at targets directly, they have used a side door of sorts by breaking into the networks of the targets’ suppliers. They have also avoided using malware commonly attributed to China, relying instead on encrypting traffic, erasing server logs and other obfuscation tactics.“The fingerprint of Chinese operations today is much different,” said Priscilla Moriuchi, who once ran the National Security Agency’s East Asia and Pacific cyber threats division. Her duties there included determining whether Beijing was abiding by the 2015 agreement’s terms. “These groups care about attribution. They don’t want to get caught.”It is difficult to quantify the number of industrial-espionage attacks, in part because they have been designed mostly to steal strategic trade secrets, not the kind of personal information about customers and employees that companies must disclose. Only Airbus has acknowledged in recent weeks that Chinese hackers had penetrated its databases.Many of the attacks by the Chinese Ministry of State Security have been against strategic targets like internet service providers with access to hundreds of thousands, if not millions, of corporate and government networks.Last week, Ms. Moriuchi, who is now a threat director at the cybersecurity firm Recorded Future, released a report on a yearlong, stealth campaign by the ministry to hack internet service providers in Western Europe and the United States and their customers.The lone hacking target to publicly confront the ministry was Visma, a Norwegian internet service provider with 850,000 customers. The goal of the attack on Visma was to gain broad access to its customers’ intellectual property, strategic plans and emails, including those of an American law firm that handles intellectual property matters for clients in the automotive, biomedical, pharmaceutical and tech sectors, according to Recorded Future.The Visma attack was harder to trace than earlier incidents, which typically started with so-called spearphishing emails meant to steal personal credentials. This assault began with stolen credentials for a third-party software service, Citrix. And instead of using malware easily traced to China, the attackers used malware available on the so-called Dark Web that could have come from anywhere. They also used the online storage service Dropbox to move stolen emails and files.Federal agencies are also trying to fend off new Iranian espionage campaigns.After  the Trump administration pulled out of the nuclear deal, Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, testified before Congress that her agency was “anticipating it’s a possibility” that Iran would resort to hacking attacks.The Iranian attacks, which hit more than a half-dozen federal agencies last month, still caught the department off guard. Security researchers said the hacks, which exploited underlying weaknesses in the internet’s backbone, were continuing and were more damaging and widespread than agency officials had acknowledged.Iranian hackers began their latest wave of attacks in Persian Gulf states last year. Since then, they have expanded to 80 targets — including internet service providers, telecommunications companies and government agencies — in 12 European countries and the United States, according to researchers at FireEye, which first reported the attacks last month.The current hacks are harder to catch than previous Iranian attacks. Instead of hitting victims directly, FireEye researchers said, Iranian hackers have been going after the internet’s core routing system, intercepting traffic between so-called domain name registrars. Once they intercepted their target’s customer web traffic, they used stolen login credentials to gain access to their victims’ emails. (Domain name registrars hold the keys to hundreds, perhaps thousands, of companies’ websites.)“They’re taking whole mailboxes of data,” said Benjamin Read, a senior manager of cyberespionage analysis at FireEye. Mr. Read said Iranian hackers had targeted police forces, intelligence agencies and foreign ministries, indicating a classic, state-backed espionage campaign rather than a criminal, profit-seeking motive.There is a long history of Iranian attacks against the United States, and episodes from five years back or longer are just now being made public.On Wednesday, the Justice Department announced an indictment against a former Air Force intelligence specialist, Monica Witt, on charges of helping Iran with an online espionage campaign. Four members of Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps were also charged with “computer intrusions and aggravated identity theft” directed at members of the United States intelligence community.Also last week, the Treasury said it was putting sanctions on two Iranian companies, New Horizon Organization and Net Peygard Samavat Company, and several people linked to them. Treasury officials said New Horizon set up annual conferences where Iran could recruit and collect intelligence from foreign attendees.Ms. Witt attended one of the conferences, the indictment says. Net Peygard used information she provided to begin a campaign in 2014 to track the online activities of United States government and military personnel, Treasury officials said.Representatives for Iran’s Mission to the United Nations did not respond to requests for comment.The recent Iranian attacks have unnerved American officials. But after issuing the emergency order about the ones last month, the Department of Homeland Security’s Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency has largely played them down.An official with the cybersecurity agency said there was a belief that no information had been stolen and that the attacks had not “materially impacted” operations. But Mr. Read of FireEye and others said there had been a noticeable escalation in Iran’s digital espionage.“If you tell the Iranians you’re going to walk out on the agreement and do everything you can to undermine their government,” said Mr. Brenner, the former counterintelligence official, “you can’t be surprised if they attack our government networks.”Follow Nicole Perlroth on Twitter: @nicoleperlrothJulian Barnes contributed reporting from Washington, and Sheera Frenkel from New York.

Supported byBitsBy Nicole PerlrothEach week, technology reporters and columnists from The New York Times review the week’s news, offering analysis and maybe a joke or two about the most important developments in the tech industry. Want this newsletter in your inbox? Sign up here.Hello, dear readers! I’m Nicole Perlroth, cybersecurity reporter here at The Times. I’m afraid the week’s news isn’t all unicorns and rainbows.This should come as a shock to no one, but President Trump’s confrontational diplomacy has energized state hackers in Iran and China. They are targeting companies and government agencies in the United States with renewed gusto, after a multiyear lull. The rebound in activity comes on top of the continuing threat from Russians, who have already started hacking European civil society groups before elections there in May.Consider this a preview of 2020.With the United States pulling out of the nuclear deal with Iran, Iranian hackers are hitting American banks, businesses and federal agencies with cyberattacks. They’ve significantly stepped up their game: harder to track down and more effective.We’re no longer talking so-called denial-of-service attacks that make websites hiccup. They’re exploiting weaknesses in the internet’s backbone to steal web traffic as it passes between government agencies, banks and businesses that manage their back-end infrastructure.The attacks rattled Homeland Security officials, who triggered an emergency alert during the government shutdown last month. Security researchers say that the attacks have not relented and that they’re hitting American targets with an unnerving success rate.The news out of China is even more troubling. Mr. Trump’s trade confrontations with Beijing have energized state hackers in Beijing, who have renewed attacks on American businesses, especially in high-tech and defense companies.Chinese industrial espionage notably dropped after President Barack Obama and President Xi Jinping of China reached a 2015 deal to cease cybertheft of trade secrets. Now, the gloves are off.Miriam Wugmeister, a cybersecurity specialist at the law firm Morrison Foerster, told me that Fortune 500 companies were being hit at “shockingly high” rates.It’s rare that victims step forward — state laws require companies to disclose breaches only if personal data is compromised — but T-Mobile, Boeing and General Electric Aviation are among the companies in the crossfire.If that’s not worrying you, consider my colleague Sui-Lee Wee’s blockbuster report Thursday on China’s campaign to build a DNA database, in part to track and suppress China’s minority Uighur population. Beijing could not have pulled this off without a big helping hand from Thermo Fisher, a Massachusetts equipment maker, and genetic material provided by a prominent Yale University researcher who says he was unaware the material was used as a surveillance tool.In other news:■ Lyft is racing to beat Uber to an initial public offering, my colleagues Mike Isaac and Kate Conger reported. Lyft is hoping to debut on the Nasdaq at a $20 billion to $25 billion valuation before it’s overshadowed by its bigger ride-hailing competitor, Uber, which bankers initially pegged at a $120 billion valuation.■ Google is losing advertisers after a YouTuber posted video showing the prevalence of pedophiles who comment on videos of children doing regular activities like gymnastics or stretching. My colleagues Dai Wakabayashi and Sapna Maheshwari reported that major brands like Nestlé and Epic Games have pulled advertising after users flagged their ads on children’s videos targeted by pedophiles.YouTube and other big tech companies are already under fire for failing to aggressively police their platforms. Last month, YouTube said it had tweaked its algorithm to stop recommending conspiracy theories to users. This past week, my colleague Kevin Roose wrote a terrific piece outlining one of the central challenges for the company: Some of YouTube’s biggest stars (and ad magnets) push conspiracies.Google is hardly the only company struggling with misinformation. This month, The Guardian discovered that YouTube’s recommendation algorithms and Facebook’s search results were still steering viewers from fact-based medical information to anti-vaccine misinformation. All this as the Pacific Northwest is still reeling from an emergency measles outbreak.■ Karl Lagerfeld, the fashion icon, died in Paris on Tuesday. True to form, no obituary had an accurate read on his age, though The Times noted he was “generally thought to be 85.”A tech newsletter this depressing would not be complete without my favorite Lagerfeld quote: “Sweatpants are a sign of defeat. You lost control of your life, so you bought some sweatpants.” (Thank God Karl Lagerfeld never set foot in Silicon Valley.)Nicole Perlroth writes about cybersecurity in the Times’s San Francisco bureau. Follow her here on Twitter: @nicoleperlroth.

Supported byBy Karen WeiseSEATTLE — A group of hackers associated with Russian intelligence targeted civil society groups across Europe ahead of May elections there, Microsoft said on Tuesday.The attacks, disclosed by Microsoft in a blog post, demonstrate the continuing spread of a broad online campaign aimed at disrupting real and potential political opponents of Russia’s president, Vladimir V. Putin. The company said it had found that hackers targeted more than 100 email accounts at think tanks and nongovernmental organizations that work on issues including election security, nuclear policy and foreign relations.Microsoft didn’t address what country the attacks came from, but it blamed a group of hackers sometimes called Fancy Bear. Online security companies have identified Fancy Bear as a Russian group, and it is widely believed to be tied to Russian intelligence.Fancy Bear was involved in the 2016 hacking of the Democratic National Committee in the United States, according to the party and security researchers. Last year, the American authorities indicted 12 Russian intelligence officers related to the hacks of the party headquarters and the Clinton presidential campaign.Russian officials have denied that Moscow had any role in the hacking attempts.Despite scrutiny of groups like Fancy Bear, the attacks have continued. Last year, the same hacking group similarly targeted Republican think tanks that had criticized President Trump before the midterm elections in the United States. Microsoft also detected those as part of its cybersecurity operations.Increasingly the attacks have also targeted groups that are not directly involved in elections but seek to steer debate or focus on specific targets, as both the 2018 attacks and the new attacks disclosed in Europe show.Microsoft said the latest attacks had taken place in advance of the European Parliament elections, which are set for May, “as well as several key national elections.”The company said the attacks occurred between September and December and took the form of spearfishing campaigns. Spearfishing involves sending emails that appear to come from legitimate sources to get users to click the links inside. If a user clicks those links, hackers can install malware, steal passwords or conduct other online mischief.The German Council on Foreign Relations, the European offices of the Aspen Institute and the German Marshall Fund of the United States were among the groups that were targeted and agreed to be disclosed, Microsoft said.In a statement on its website, the German Marshall Fund said groups beyond candidates and their political campaign managers must be increasingly vigilant.“Everything we do as an organization, from our policy research to our work strengthening civil society, is dedicated to advancing and protecting democratic values,” it said. “The announcement serves as a reminder that the assault on these values is real and relentless.”The other groups could not immediately be reached for comment.The targeted research institutes have done work related to issues important to Russian policy and its continuing use of misinformation to influence elections. The German Marshall Fund, for example, has investigated Russia’s use of social media to spread political messages in its favor in various elections in Europe. The German Council on Foreign Relations has published reports related to arms control and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, which has been at odds with Russia.Microsoft has been tracking the increase in hacking attempts by nation states, including Russians, as part of its Defending Democracy Program, which it announced last year to provide protection to candidates, political parties and nongovernmental organizations working in the field of elections.It said it was expanding its AccountGuard cybersecurity service free to campaigns and nongovernmental organizations that use its Office 365 software in 12 new European markets to protect against these kinds of hacks.A Microsoft executive, Tom Burt, said in the blog post that Europe was the birthplace of democracy, and that “as the ongoing attacks demonstrate, this idea is increasingly under threat.”

Supported byBy Jamie TarabaySYDNEY, Australia — Prime Minister Scott Morrison of Australia on Monday blamed a “sophisticated state actor” for the recent hacking of Parliament’s computer network, raising the specter of foreign interference in the country’s politics weeks before a national election.The government has not identified the country behind the attack, but Mr. Morrison said that along with Parliament, the networks of the major political parties were also affected.Mr. Morrison did not detail how the country’s security agencies had detected or dealt with the malicious activity, but he insisted that “there is no evidence of any electoral interference.”Cybersecurity experts, he said, briefed the country’s electoral commissions and met with state and territory officials. “They have also worked with global antivirus companies to ensure Australia’s friends and allies have the capacity to detect this malicious activity,” he said.Alastair MacGibbon, the national cybersecurity adviser, said on Monday that the government had not learned the identity of the hacker before it acted to block the activity.That defensive action, he said, “also does other unpleasant things, like remove some of the forensic evidence we’re interested in.”A government cybersecurity expert said one difficulty in identifying the perpetrators was that the hackers used tools that had not previously been seen.The nations most likely to carry out such an attack are China and Russia, security experts said, though Iran, Israel and North Korea also have sophisticated cyberwarfare capabilities.Australia has frequently warned of Chinese interference in its politics. Last year, the government barred the Chinese technology giant Huawei from building a 5G telecommunications network. In a speech in October, the head of the Australian Signals Directorate, an intelligence agency, hinted that the decision was about maintaining the integrity of data and critical infrastructure.“If it is China, then I think it’s important for the public to know that,” said Alex Joske, a researcher at the International Cyber Policy Center in Canberra. “Discussions about Huawei and influence will be issues during the election, and letting the public know that the Chinese Communist Party was in our system is important knowledge.”Mr. Joske said Russia, which interfered in the 2016 United States presidential election, had less interest in the Australian election.After the American experience in 2016, Western democracies should be increasingly aware of the vulnerability of their institutions, said Roderick Jones, founder and president of the cybersecurity firm Rubica in San Francisco.“It is gross negligence to have any significant breach of a system at this point, given everything that’s happened around the world, to have a penetration of a parliamentary system is just negligent,” he said.The Australian hack was above all designed to damage voter confidence, Mr. Jones said.“People are suddenly questioning electronic voting, some of those processes get brought into focus and people stop having trust in them. Every Western election has had interference, every one has been damaged in some way. Russia and China are more allied than ever to destroy confidence in the system,” he said.The prime minister’s acknowledgment of the hack represented a departure from past policy, in which the government has been reluctant to single-handedly call out cyberattacks by foreign governments. Last April, Australia, the United States and Britain accused Russia of state-sponsored hacking. In December, Australia followed the United States in condemning Chinese hackers for trying to steal intellectual property.The Australian government’s conundrum now is what it will do once it has uncovered the identity of the foreign state actor, said Fergus Hanson, head of the International Cyber Policy Center.“This sets up Australia for its first attribution without a coalition, it’s never had the confidence to say that for an attack that just affected Australia,” he said. “In a couple of months’ time, they’re going to have to come out and say who was behind it and then they’ll have to react to it.”How the Australian government responds will be closely watched, not least by the other members of the Five Eyes intelligence-sharing alliance: the United States, Britain, Canada and New Zealand.“Will Australia fall out of the intelligence-sharing community if it doesn’t act, or is shown to have less than robust cybersecurity around key infrastructure?” asked Mr. Jones of Rubica. “There’s not a lot Australia can do, but that’s the point of alliances.”Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article misstated the nationality of Roderick Jones, founder and president of the cybersecurity firm Rubica. He is British, not American.Want more Australia coverage and discussion? Sign up for the weekly Australia Letter, start your day with your local Morning Briefing and join us in our Facebook group.

Supported byBy Andrew E. KramerMOSCOW — The treason trial of some of Russia’s top cybersecurity officials ended on Tuesday without solving the mysteries at the center of the case: Why had the men been arrested and what, if anything, did they have to do with Russia’s efforts to disrupt the 2016 American presidential election? Was the prosecution driven not by geopolitical concerns but by a businessman’s desire for revenge?The case began when Russian counterintelligence investigators seized several leading cybersecurity officials in raids conducted in early December 2016. With the arrests coming one month after the American election, speculation swirled that the men had been caught leaking information that helped the F.B.I.’s investigation into Russia’s election hacking.But no clear evidence of that has ever emerged, and the drawn-out trial wrapped up in a Moscow military courtroom without shedding any official light on the reasons for the arrests or if the timing of them, coming so close to the election, signaled a connection to the Russian meddling.Under the watchful eye of security forces wearing ski masks, journalists were allowed into the courtroom for the first time on Tuesday to hear the verdict. Speaking for about 10 minutes, a judge convicted the two main figures and sentenced them to lengthy terms in prison for treason, without saying why.Sergei Mikhailov, a former deputy director of the computer crimes unit of the Federal Security Service, the main successor agency to the K.G.B., was sentenced to 22 years in a penal colony on two counts of treason.Ruslan Stoyanov, a senior researcher at Kaspersky Lab, an antivirus company, was sentenced to 14 years on one count of treason. Two other suspects had earlier pleaded guilty and are awaiting sentencing.Both men convicted Tuesday had for years cooperated with United States law enforcement and Western computer security researchers on bread-and-butter cybercrime issues like stopping spam and bank fraud.But then came the election hacking scandal in 2016, and the men’s arrests signaled that this type of cooperation would stop.Cooperating with the United States was “something that went out of fashion after the scandal,” said Andrei Soldatov, the author of “The Red Web,” and an authority on Russian internet policies.As part of the election interference operation, two Russian hacking groups intruded into the servers of the Democratic National Committee. One group was affiliated with the F.S.B., Mr. Mikhailov’s agency, and the other with the Russian military intelligence organization known as the G.R.U., according to United States government officials and cybersecurity researchers who studied the breach.Only the G.R.U. leaked the stolen information, according to a United States interagency report on the hacking released in 2017. The special counsel investigating Russian meddling, Robert S. Mueller III, last year indicted 12 G.R.U. officers.The detailed accusations by American intelligence agencies against Russia, and the stated high level of confidence in their findings, gave rise to questions about whether they had sources inside Russia.Leaks about the treason case reported in the Russian news media, as well as interviews with defense lawyers and a witness, have indicated that the defendants’ ties to American officials long predated the presidential campaign, and that the information they passed on was not directly related to the hacking investigation.Kommersant, a Russian newspaper, reported this month that Mr. Mikhailov and Mr. Stoyanov were accused of revealing to the F.B.I. information about F.S.B. investigative methods while cooperating with American colleagues on a criminal case nearly a decade ago.Mr. Mikhailov, through intermediaries, passed the data to the F.B.I. in 2011 while investigating ChronoPay, a Russian online payments processing company, the newspaper report said, potentially opening a window on money flows in the Russian online underworld — information that could also be useful in the investigation of the election hacking.At the time, Russia was under diplomatic pressure from the United States and Canada to prosecute the company’s owner, Pavel Vrublevsky, for selling counterfeit erectile dysfunction pills to Americans through websites. Mr. Vrublevsky has denied ties to that scheme.Mr. Mikhailov led the successful prosecution of Mr. Vrublevsky on a separate accusation of hacking the payment system for online ticket sales at Aeroflot, the Russian national airline.Outside the courtroom on Tuesday, a defense lawyer, Inga Lebedeva, told reporters that Mr. Vrublevsky had initiated the treason case in a vendetta against the F.S.B. official and the cybercrime researcher who had put him in prison in the Aeroflot case.“His goal was revenge,” Ms. Lebedeva said. At no point during the closed trial, she said, had Russian meddling in the 2016 United States election come up.“The boys think that in their activities against hackers and criminals they stepped on somebody’s tail,” Ms. Lebedeva said of the two defendants. She said both men would appeal their convictions.Mr. Vrublevsky, in an interview, said he had testified against the pair in the treason trial and believed that they had indeed illegally passed information to the American authorities, but not about election hacking. “These guys were selling fairy tales to the United States about people doing business, like me,” he said.Still, the arrests amounted to a purge of the leadership of the cyberwing of Russia’s main intelligence agency in the midst of the electoral hacking scandal, an issue carrying immense implications for Russia’s relations with the United States.Along with Mr. Mikhailov, who was reportedly dragged from an F.S.B. meeting with a bag over his head, Russian counterintelligence officers detained his deputy, Dmitry A. Dokuchaev. Mr. Dokuchaev pleaded guilty in the treason case.The United States has not accused Mr. Dokuchaev of having any role in the election hacking but has indicted him in a separate cybercrime case that overlaps with sanctions imposed on Russians for election meddling. Federal authorities in Washington and San Francisco in 2017 accused Mr. Dokuchaev, who at the time was also facing the treason charge in Russia, of doubling as a cybercriminal while working at the F.S.B. He was accused of hacking Yahoo and stealing 500 million passwords.That indictment identified him as having overseen the work of one of three others named in the Yahoo hack, a suspected cybercriminal, Aleksei A. Belan, whom the Obama administration placed under sanctions in relation to the election hacking.

Supported byBy Isabella KwaiSYDNEY, Australia — The Australian Parliament said on Friday that hackers had tried to break into its computer network, which includes lawmakers’ email archives, but that so far there were no indications that data had been stolen.“Following a security incident on the parliamentary computing network, a number of measures have been implemented to protect the network and its users,” Parliament’s presiding officers, Tony Smith and Scott Ryan, said in a joint statement. “All users have been required to change their passwords. This has occurred overnight and this morning.”“There is no evidence that any data has been accessed or taken at this time, however this will remain subject to ongoing investigation,” the statement read.Australian news outlets reported that security agencies were investigating the possibility that a foreign government was behind the attack, possibly China’s.The nature of the attack “suggests a state actor because it’s hard to make money from breaching a parliamentary system,” said Fergus Hanson, head of the International Cyber Policy Center at the Australian Strategic Policy Institute.China’s attempts to influence Australian politics have become a major issue here, and Mr. Hanson said that for Australia, “obviously China is the No. 1 threat-actor when it comes to cyberattacks.” But he added that Iranian, North Korean and Russian hackers would also be possible suspects in the latest attack.It comes as Australia is preparing for national elections that are likely to be held in May. Given that, Mr. Hanson said, the attack on a system that houses lawmakers’ official email accounts was concerning, in light of well-known recent attempts to influence elections through cyberattacks — most notoriously, the Russian interference in the American presidential election in 2016, which involved the theft of emails.“It would be the location where you’d find compromising emails or emails showing disputes, who was in agreement on certain policies and who wasn’t,” Mr. Hanson said of Parliament’s network.But in their statement, Mr. Ryan and Mr. Smith said there was “no evidence that this is an attempt to influence the outcome of parliamentary processes or to disrupt or influence electoral or political processes.”Some analysts were skeptical that China would be officially blamed for the attack, even if evidence of its involvement emerged.“There’s been a lot of political reluctance to attribute attacks to China,” said Alex Joske, a researcher at the International Cyber Policy Center. “It’s been seen by some people as not offering many benefits while drawing a lot of criticism and anger from the Chinese government.”Australia joined the United States last December in condemning a Chinese state-backed hacking group for trying to steal intellectual property. But the government has not publicly held China responsible for other cyberattacks that national security experts said seemed to bear its fingerprints.Last year, security experts said that tools commonly used by Chinese hackers had been deployed in attacks on the Defense Department and the Australian National University. In 2013, the theft of classified blueprints for the Australian Security Intelligence Organization’s new headquarters was also reported to have been linked to China.“More information will come out, but probably no official attribution,” Mr. Hanson said of the attack on Parliament’s system. “At the end of the day, that just encourages bad behavior.”Jenina Ibañez contributed reporting.Follow Isabella Kwai on Twitter: @bellakwai.Want more Australia coverage and discussion? Join us in our Facebook group, sign up for the weekly Australia Letter and start your day with the Australian Morning Briefing.

Supported bynews analysisA terabyte of data — 100 million pages or 1,000 hours of video — can be shared on a thumb drive. But stolen secrets come with complications.By Scott ShaneMr. Shane is a national security reporter for The Times.On the very day that Roger Stone was charged with lying about a momentous set of leaks that originated with Russian hackers, a feisty band of transparency activists led by a Boston woman posted a voluminous collection of leaks from inside Russia.It was less a coincidence than a trend, a consequence of technology and a defining feature of our time. We live in an age of leaks, for better or worse.The better part is easy: We get access to information powerful people and institutions want to keep secret. The worse part is more complicated, and requires more thoughtful consideration than it gets: Leaks often violate laws against hacking or theft and invade people’s privacy, not always with any higher purpose. They can be powerful, unpredictable, unfair weapons. They can allow one country to meddle, from a safe distance, in the affairs of another.To wit: The Democratic Party emails and documents, hacked by Russian intelligence and broadcast by WikiLeaks with the veteran political trickster Mr. Stone as cheerleader, may have allowed a foreign power to help elect an American president in 2016. Yet the new, sprawling archive of Russian leaks, ranging from government ties to the Russian Orthodox Church to the Kremlin’s management of its invasion of Ukraine, showed that the Russian state is a target of leaks these days as often as it is a leaker.Mass leaks, on a scale inconceivable back in the paper-only era, have become so routine globally that only the most extraordinary get extended attention. In South Africa, a Commission of Inquiry Into State Capture is fueled by “Gupta Leaks,” leaked emails detailing corrupt ties between government officials and the Gupta family’s business empire. In Hungary, a Portuguese man was just arrested and admitted to playing a central role in “Football Leaks,” which exposed unsavory financial dealings in international soccer. In Singapore, an American and his Singaporean physician boyfriend were accused of leaking the names of more than 14,000 people with an H.I.V. diagnosis.Leaks, an ancient metaphor, are a venerable human institution. “A talebearer revealeth secrets,” says Proverbs in an early complaint, “but he that is of a faithful spirit concealeth the matter.” Thomas Paine, the revolutionary pamphleteer, has been described as the first American to be fired for leaking classified information — in 1779.But only in recent years have leaks attained industrial scale. A terabyte of data — 100 million pages or 1,000 hours of video — can now be slipped into your pocket on a thumb drive and carried off with your keys and chewing gum. If information is power, that is a lot of power in a small package. It is being wielded daily for many purposes.The same technological change has made information vulnerable to hacking, which means that insiders are no longer the only people capable of leaking it. On a regular basis, companies announce cyberthefts of customer data, causing bureaucratic hassles for millions of people. At the other end of the scale, leaks occasionally target individuals for embarrassment or extortion.But the most consequential leaks — many of them more like floods — are those that wield political power. The diplomatic cables Chelsea Manning gave to WikiLeaks in 2010 shed light on the hidden world of diplomacy. Edward Snowden’s National Security Agency documents, shared with journalists in 2013, prompted the White House, and then Congress, to set new limits on the surveillance of Americans. The Panama Papers, leaked to a German newspaper in 2015, prompted investigations of tax evasion and money laundering around the world.On balance, those gargantuan disclosures seem largely beneficial — even if not all diplomats, intelligence officers and tax lawyers would join the applause. But the big leaks of the current era are not all about war and peace, government oversight or financial equity. For journalists, the catnip appeal of scoops can overwhelm careful judgment about the value of the disclosures and problematic questions about sources.What about the Sony Pictures leaks — an act of vengeance by the North Korean leader for an insulting movie — which exposed mostly gossip, business secrets and employee Social Security numbers? What of the leaks of personal information from AshleyMadison.com, which helps facilitate extramarital affairs?What, for that matter, about the 20,000 Democratic National Committee emails and 20,000 more pages of emails to and from John Podesta, Hillary Clinton’s campaign manager, that Mr. Stone is accused of lying about? That breach, weaponized by Russia in the midst of a presidential contest, illustrates well the ambiguous nature of such intrusions.The leaks were, after all, not disinformation, even if they were obtained by criminal means. The emails were real, which was why they drew so much media attention. “Four of the Juiciest Leaked Podesta Emails,” USA Today trumpeted a month before the 2016 election. The New York Times was only a little more demure: “Highlights From the Clinton Campaign Emails.”The leaks gave Mrs. Clinton cause to regret that she had not released the speeches she had delivered to private companies, which were now made public under the worst possible circumstances. It was agony for top Democrats whose private, sometimes snarky comments were aired.For Donald Trump and his supporters, including his old friend Mr. Stone, the emails were a campaign boon, a justified public airing of hidden Clinton truths. For future political historians, they may offer a few meaningful tidbits of insight into the Clinton campaign.Yet the leaks cannot be separated from those who made them happen: A foreign intelligence service intervened with significant impact on behalf of one side in an American election. Imagine that Russian officials had ignored Mrs. Clinton and instead hacked and published documents exposing Mr. Trump’s epic tax dodges and secret payments to paramours. Even die-hard Trump partisans might recognize that the race could have come out the other way.A different thought experiment, however, may be more timely. How would the leaks of Democratic emails be viewed had the data been hacked or leaked by a disgruntled American — a false story that Russia and Trump supporters pushed in 2016 — with no taint of foreign meddling? More Americans might accept the leaks as regrettable but inevitable political roughhousing. Such a scenario may be worth pondering. American political operatives, we recently learned, have begun to imitate Russia’s 2016 operations on social media, with two experiments in the 2017 Alabama Senate election.So it is almost certainly only a matter of time before Americans try out the hack-and-leak technique as well, as any student of old-school campaign dirty tricks can tell you. Just ask Roger Stone, who wrote in his book “Stone’s Rules”: “To win you must do everything.”Scott Shane is a national security reporter in Washington. He was part of teams that won Pulitzer Prizes in 2017 for coverage of Russia's projections of power abroad and in 2018 for reporting on Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election.  @ScottShaneNYT • Facebook 

Supported byletterA political scientist says the media should stop the self-flagellating. To the Editor:Re “2020 Looms, and News Faces Test of Judgment” (Media Memo, Jan. 28):Please stop the self-flagellating! The polls, pundits and professors didn’t get 2016 wrong. They forecast only that Hillary Clinton would get a popular majority. What wasn’t seen was that 2016 would be one of the very few elections in which a candidate who lost the popular vote nevertheless won through the Electoral College. Nor did I, a credentialed political scientist, see it.Andrew HackerFlushing, QueensThe writer teaches political science at Queens College, CUNY.

From the beach to the supermarket to the apocalypse, Karl Lagerfeld aimed to amaze.A spiral staircase for Chanel's couture spring 2006 show in Paris.CreditCreditEd Alcock for The New York TimesSupported byEven during the Great Recession, Karl Lagerfeld spent liberally on his sets for Chanel shows at each Paris fashion week. There was the iceberg, a 28-foot frozen mountain purportedly hacked from a glacier, hauled to France from Sweden in 15 tractor-trailers and then trucked back again. There was the supermarket, a fake food hall complete with Chanel-labeled products, which was ransacked by guests (and at which, Joan Smalls pushed Cara Delevingne and Rihanna in a cart). There was the staged protest; a manufactured beach, complete with swelling waters; and a giant bouclé jacket sculpture, in the most literal homage to the Chanel’s storied brand. And who could forget the rocket ship that actually took off?Mr. Lagerfeld’s legacy is his visual identity, which was also expressed through these sets. They seemed to get bigger and bigger with every passing year.

Supported byBy Jack Nicas and Brian X. ChenApple said Friday that it had fixed a security flaw in iPhones that allowed people to call another iPhone via FaceTime and listen in on conversations even if the recipient didn’t answer, resolving an alarming vulnerability that undermined the company’s public commitment to security. A software update will be released next week, the company said.The new update will allow owners of iPhones, iPads and Mac computers to re-enable Group FaceTime, the feature that had allowed the potential eavesdropping, Apple said. (Instructions on how to update a device’s software are below.)Apple’s response came four days after the flaw was widely reported, and nearly two weeks since a concerned customer alerted the company. This week, before fixing the bug, the company raced to disable Group FaceTime, which allows people to video chat with several people.A 14-year-old Arizona boy discovered that he could listen to a friend via Group FaceTime on Jan. 19, even if the friend didn’t answer the call. His mother repeatedly tried to flag the issue to Apple, but the company was slow to respond.“We want to assure our customers that as soon as our engineering team became aware of the details necessary to reproduce the bug, they quickly disabled Group FaceTime and began work on the fix,” an Apple spokesman said in a statement Friday. “We are committed to improving the process by which we receive and escalate these reports, in order to get them to the right people as fast as possible.”The incident was embarrassing for a company that regularly boasts about the safety of its products. Hours before Apple publicly acknowledged the bug — branded “FacePalm” by security researchers — on Monday, Timothy D. Cook, the company’s chief executive, tweeted that “we all must insist on action and reform for vital privacy protections.”After the vulnerability became public, security researchers and politicians raised concerns about the security of Apple’s products. To pre-empt security attacks, in 2016 Apple started offering hackers a $200,000 bounty if they flagged bugs to the company. But some hackers have said the program has had a slow start because they can make more money selling the flaws on the black market.To install the update when it is released, follow these steps for iPhones, iPads and Macs:■ On an iPhone or an iPad, open the Settings app, then tap General and then tap Software Update. From here, download the newest iOS version, which is expected to be called 12.1.4. When the update is ready, choose Install Now. As a precaution, make sure your iPhone or iPad is plugged into a power source when installing the update.■ On a Mac, open the App Store app. Then click the Updates tab, and click Update next to MacOS Mojave. (If you are using an older version of the Mac operating system, you will not see this option and do not need to download the update.) When the download is finished, make sure your power cable is plugged in and restart the computer.Follow Jack Nicas and Brian X. Chen on Twitter: @jacknicas and @bxchen.

Supported byWhy does Trump keep hiring hard-money hacks?By Paul KrugmanOpinion ColumnistU.S. political discussion has been dominated by the issue of Donald Trump’s wall — an issue on which Trump's irrationality keeps surprising even his critics. So I don’t imagine that many people have heard about Trump’s nomination of David Malpass, currently an under secretary at the Treasury Department, to lead the World Bank. But it’s a story worth following.For one thing, while the U.S. traditionally gets to choose the World Bank’s president (Europe gets the International Monetary Fund), there will be a lot of opposition to Malpass, who has a history of being hostile to international institutions. Furthermore, the Malpass nomination highlights the remarkable character of Trump’s economic appointments.Remarkable in what way? Well, remarkably bad. Every economist, yours truly very much included, gets it wrong sometimes. But Trump only seems to choose men who have been wrong about everything.Beyond that, however, what’s remarkable is the extent to which this president consistently chooses economists whose ideology is at odds with his own professed views on policy.[Paul Krugman did explanatory journalism before it was cool, moving from a career as a world-class economist to writing hard-hitting opinion columns. For an even deeper look at what’s on his mind, sign up for his weekly newsletter.]These days, at least, Trump is an easy-money guy who wants the Fed to keep interest rates low. But he keeps appointing deflationists — men who opposed any attempt to rescue the economy from the financial crisis, who bitterly attacked the Fed for keeping rates low and demanded tight money even when we had very high unemployment.Why does he do this? I’ll get there in a minute. First, let’s talk about who’s on the Trump team.At the top of the list is Larry Kudlow, director of the National Economic Council. He has quite a track record; as one commentator put it, he “has elevated flamboyant wrongness into a form of performance art.”Kudlow may be best known for his unflagging faith, in the teeth of the evidence, in the magic of tax cuts, as well as his dismissal of “bubbleheads” who predicted a housing crash. Less known is his 2008 praise for Bush officials for having the courage not to bail out Lehman Brothers. Just hours after his encomiums, Lehman’s fall had plunged the whole world into financial meltdown.Kevin Hassett, chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, is another bubble denier, although his most famous prediction was in his 1999 book “Dow 36,000” (which, adjusted for inflation, would mean roughly Dow 55,000 today). More relevant to current policy, Hassett was among those who kept predicting, wrongly, that Ben Bernanke’s efforts to fight unemployment would cause runaway inflation.And then there’s David Malpass, also both a bubble denier and a Bernanke-basher. Much press commentary has noted his 2007 insistence, as chief economist at Bear Stearns, that there was no reason to be worried about the financial system. A few months later his own firm imploded.But I think his most revealing piece of commentary was a 2011 screed against low interest rates and what he considered a “weak dollar” policy. A low rate policy, he declared, hurts the economy because it “discourages thrift,” while the weak dollar was bad for confidence, or something.This was really bad economics. At the time, America had 9 percent unemployment, entirely because of inadequate private spending; to the extent that low interest rates were discouraging thrift and making people spend rather than save, that would have been a good thing, not a problem. And Malpass’s argument about the dollar was just incoherent.What’s really striking, however, is that the policies Malpass attacked were precisely the policies Donald Trump now demands: low rates and a weaker dollar. So why would Trump want to promote him, and people like him?Here’s how I understand it: The first thing Trump looks for in an appointee is someone who shares his values — above all, his absolute lack of compassion for those less fortunate than himself. And if you want an economic official who doesn’t care about the poor or the unlucky, you must perforce go for a right-winger.But Trump also has another criterion: He wants people who will be personally dependent on him, who don’t have any kind of professional reputation to defend and therefore won’t take a stand on principle. That is, he only wants hacks.And here’s the thing: Right-wing hack economists are, with hardly any exceptions, hard-money, hyperinflation-is-around-the-corner types. So Trump ends up with officials whose past views are diametrically opposed to what he says now.Does this mean that the men he has chosen will stand in the way of his policies? No, not at all. They are hacks, after all, and will tell Trump whatever he wants to hear.But it does mean that Trumpian economic policy is being made by men who, almost by definition, don’t know what they’re doing. To have gotten their jobs, they not only had to have track records of talking nonsense, but to have suddenly started talking completely different nonsense — reversing their long-held positions to curry favor with the Very Stable Genius.So what will happen if and when this economic team has to deal with real problems, like a global slump? Somehow, I’m not optimistic.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Paul Krugman has been an Opinion columnist since 2000 and is also a Distinguished Professor at the City University of New York Graduate Center. He won the 2008 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences for his work on international trade and economic geography.  @PaulKrugman 

Supported byNormally the web is a haven for the dark side. This time, the Amazon chief executive used it to let in the light. By Kara SwisherMs. Swisher covers technology and is a contributing opinion writer. I cannot quite believe I am writing about Jeff Bezos’ sex life for the second time in two weeks, let alone about his penis. But Mr. Bezos brought all of himself back into the news on Thursday by writing a blockbuster post on Medium accusing American Media, which owns The National Enquirer, of blackmail. The post is addressed to David Pecker, the head of American Media, and titled, “No Thank You, Mr. Pecker.”Pun presumably intended by Mr. Bezos, the Amazon founder and chief executive. It’s difficult to not descend into a minefield of them (Jeff Bezos’ Prime and Jeff Bezos’ package are popular jokes on Twitter today, and HuffPost and The New York Post ran with “Bezos Exposes Pecker”) and conclude that it is simply a field day for tabloids.This is true on a superficial and titillating level, of course. Last month, The National Enquirer broke the story about Mr. Bezos’ affair and quoted awkward and somewhat sweet sexts he had sent his girlfriend. There were also insinuations about the existence of photos of his penis. But now the news is about something bigger. By using a digital platform to bring his side of the story directly to the masses, Mr. Bezos has done something both admirable and also a little scary. Most revealing — and I say this about a story that is lousy with revelations — is that it is perhaps the best illustration of the in-your-face aggressiveness that has made him the richest man in the world and arguably the most important tech visionary since Steve Jobs.I am not sure even Mr. Jobs, the pugnacious Apple founder and chief executive who mastered the media, would have tried to pull off what Mr. Bezos has done.[Kara Swisher answered your questions on Twitter.]It was unclear how The National Enquirer got hold of this trove of obviously confidential material, but it did. So Mr. Bezos — who is “a person of means,” to use Howard Schultz’s favored term — decided to use his considerable assets to find out. And why not? The digital invasion is troubling enough personally, but a high-profile businessman like Mr. Bezos has a lot of critical company secrets he needs kept that way.While what happened to him could have been as simple as someone snapping a photo of a text or photo and passing it along, it might have been much worse. The Washington Post, owned by Mr. Bezos, is reporting that his investigators think he could have been hacked by a government agency, which would be extremely troubling. But whether he was hacked, or there was a broader security breach, in this leaky internet age, it’s pretty much a requirement that Mr. Bezos figure out how he was compromised.As Mr. Bezos’ investigation continued, The Post and others floated theories that American Media had gone after Mr. Bezos for political reasons, perhaps because President Trump considers him an enemy for the work his newspaper does. On Medium, Mr. Bezos included emails from an American Media lawyer demanding that he issue a statement saying he had no “basis for suggesting that A.M.I.’s coverage was politically motivated” — or face the photos going public. If the emails are authentic, that looks pretty suspect.Rather than struggling with his media foes in the quiet back room of a law firm, Mr. Bezos decided to do it the internet way — much as American Media’s BFF, President Trump, does — and just say it all out loud on Medium and Twitter. Bypassing the traditional media, he wrote a highly personal post alleging a shakedown.Good for him. While it’s fair game to criticize his business, if done with fairness and accuracy, American Media went too far. By pushing back, Mr. Bezos has taken a deeply embarrassing situation and turned it to his own advantage. While jokes abound, he’s having a bit of a heroic moment here, as the guy who will not take it anymore. There is only glory in rolling over the log, as Mr. Bezos wrote, to see how these vermin use embarrassing photos and gossip, amplified by social media, as weapons. He was willing to expose himself — pun intended — in the process.In an era when the forces of sneakiness and sleaze on the internet seem to be ascendant, from the Russian incursion onto Facebook to the ways social media is used to spew hatred, it is a rare thing to see someone turn the tables.That said, I’m not entirely sanguine about the ability of powerful people like Mr. Bezos to use digital tools for their own private aims. We have seen leaders, like Mr. Trump, harness Twitter to spread lies and create new realities, and to harass journalists, as Rodrigo Duterte, the president of the Philippines, and many other strongmen have done.Mr. Bezos, too, has the ability to use his huge digital reach in all kinds of ways, and he may someday be tempted to do so in situations where the villains are not as obvious as Mr. Pecker and his band of media thugs. I doubt he would, but he certainly could.For now though, Mr. Bezos is striking a blow for everyone. Regular people suffer data hacks and privacy violations daily, largely from having their information mined and manipulated in order to build enormous advertising businesses, as Facebook and Google do, or to sell us more stuff (hello, Amazon!).Mr. Bezos clearly is winning here. He should use the opportunity to reflect on how he can lead the fight to protect everyone’s privacy and digital dignity, even as he takes back his own.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram, and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. Kara Swisher, editor at large for the technology news website Recode and producer of the Recode Decode podcast and Code Conference, is a contributing opinion writer.  @karaswisher • Facebook 

Supported byBy Mike HaleDid you know that the F.B.I. is your square dad and the C.I.A. is your hot mom? I didn’t either, until I watched two new midseason television series, NBC’s “The Enemy Within” and ABC’s “Whiskey Cavalier.”They’re at opposite ends of the spectrum of network formulas: a scaremongering thriller about domestic terrorism (“Enemy”); and a globe-trotting romantic caper (“Whiskey”). But beneath the shootouts and chases they’re kind of the same show. A sad, honest man from the F.B.I. — a beta male despite his considerable physical skills — is forced to partner with a charismatic, rules-breaking woman from the C.I.A. Sparks fly, though perhaps not enough to light a fire.Neither show engages directly with current political battles (through two episodes, anyway) — there’s no angry president accusing the intelligence agencies of deep-state plotting. “The Enemy Within,” however, eagerly taps into our continuing post-9/11 paranoia.Monday’s premiere begins with the stark announcement: “The F.B.I. estimates there are one hundred thousand foreign spies working within the United States today.” I can’t find any evidence that the F.B.I. has ever said that, but no matter. The show breathlessly doubles down, having a character warn of “highly trained, deadly operatives in every city and every state, hiding in plain sight, as teachers, engineers, husbands and wives.”And while it isn’t explicitly Trumpian, the series does turn on the notions of both treachery and incompetence within the ranks. Jennifer Carpenter, wielding the sullen intensity we remember from “Dexter,” stars as a former C.I.A. deputy director, Erica Shepherd, who gave up secrets to a Russian “rogue terrorist.” (How many of those are there? 10,000?) When the Russian appears to have resurfaced, she’s brought out of prison to help the otherwise hapless F.B.I. track him down.“The Enemy Within” is a predictably thin and hyped-up network concoction. But connoisseurs of gothic silliness can appreciate it as a gender-switched homage to “The Silence of the Lambs,” with Carpenter as a female Hannibal Lecter and Morris Chestnut as the F.B.I. agent assigned to oversee her (even though his fiancée died as a result of her treason).The connection is hard to miss. Shepherd is kept behind glass, in a cage within a gigantic cell that looks like a minimalist Manhattan penthouse. She takes satisfaction in her mental superiority to her F.B.I. handlers. The show doesn’t take the trouble to sketch in any background for her crime-solving genius, but it does have an irritated agent refer to her as Hannibal Lecter, in case we missed the point.After “Enemy Within,” “Whiskey Cavalier” (premiering Wednesday) looks giddily enjoyable, if no less prefab in action and exposition. It was created by Dave Hemingson, whose experience is largely in sitcoms (his last series-creator credit appears to have been “Kitchen Confidential”), and its screwball-comedy sensibility recalls the shows of Bill Lawrence (“Scrubs,” “Cougar Town”), one of its executive producers.Here the F.B.I. agent is a sensitive guy grieving over a bad breakup, and the C.I.A. agent is a sarcastic femme fatale-action figure with a fondness for enhanced interrogation. They meet-cute when they’re both sent to catch a fugitive hacker, and before you can say “Mr. and Mrs. Smith” they’ve been assigned to a joint task force, where they can bicker over the ethics of espionage and generate sexual tension for as long as the series lasts.The news about “Whiskey Cavalier” is that Lauren Cohan plays Frankie Trowbridge, the C.I.A. half of the couple, in her first starring role since her long run as Maggie Greene (later Rhee) on “The Walking Dead.” It’s a night-and-day change, and in the early episodes Cohan looks capable but not entirely comfortable with the fast-paced comedy.She’s surrounded by people who are at home with the show’s rhythms, though. Scott Foley, who did time on “Scrubs” and “Cougar Town,” is Frankie’s counterpart, Will Chase (code name Whiskey Cavalier). There are also Ana Ortiz of “Ugly Betty,” as an F.B.I. profiler, and Tyler James Williams of “Everybody Loves Chris” (and “The Walking Dead”), who plays the hacker, an Eddie Murphy-style joker who gets recruited to the cause.If you’re going to join a family of spies, they’re the ones to choose.The Enemy WithinMonday on NBCWhiskey CavalierSunday on ABC

Supported byThe special counsel is still hiding events that lie at the core of his investigation — events that involve the president directly. By Marcy WheelerMs. Wheeler writes about national security at the website Emptywheel.Even before Michael Cohen appeared before the House Oversight Committee to begin testifying Wednesday, he delivered explosive new information. Several days before WikiLeaks published Democratic National Committee emails on July 22, 2016, Roger Stone called Donald Trump and — on a speaker phone that permitted Mr. Cohen to hear — told the presidential candidate that “he had just gotten off the phone with Julian Assange,” who told him that “within a couple of days, there would be a massive dump of emails that would damage Hillary Clinton’s campaign.” According to Mr. Cohen, the president expressed happiness about the prospect “to the effect of ‘Wouldn’t that be great.’”The detail is remarkable not just because it undercuts the president’s claims that Mr. Stone never provided him such details. It’s also a testament to how much critical information the special counsel, Robert Mueller, has kept hidden even in the most provocative of his “speaking indictments.” Even after months of investigation and voluminous indictments and sentencing memos, he’s still hiding events that lie at the core of his investigative mandate — events that involve the president directly.With virtually every charging document in the Russia investigation, Mr. Mueller’s team has provided far more detail than necessary and, in the process, sketched out the framework of what the investigators found. The description of the lies of a former campaign adviser, George Papadopoulos, disclosed that the campaign first learned Russians were planning to dump emails from Mrs. Clinton in April 2016, before the Democrats figured out they had been hacked. Even as Russians were dangling those emails, another filing from Mr. Mueller shows, other Russians were pitching a ridiculously lucrative real estate deal that depended on the involvement of President Vladimir Putin. Indeed, that same filing revealed that Mr. Cohen took steps to travel to St. Petersburg, possibly to meet with Mr. Putin, around the same time that Donald Trump Jr. met with Russians asking for sanctions relief. Mr. Mueller’s description of Michael Flynn’s lies explained how Mr. Flynn persuaded the Russians to hold off on any response to President Barack Obama’s imposition of sanctions in retaliation for Russia’s election interference.Each of those documents nods to Mr. Trump’s involvement. The document charging Mr. Papadopoulos, the foreign policy adviser, describes how he announced he was trying to set up a meeting between Mr. Trump and Mr. Putin. The Flynn document explains how his deputy, K.T. McFarland, closely orchestrated what Mr. Flynn would say in his calls with Russia’s ambassador at a time Ms. McFarland was reported to be at the president’s Mar-a-Lago resort. Mr. Cohen’s charging document even describes the president himself as Individual-1, the kind of language often used to describe co-conspirators.But Mr. Stone’s heads-up to Mr. Trump — and his enthusiastic response — went unmentioned in the indictment filed in January.Certainly, the fact that Mr. Stone informed Mr. Trump of the forthcoming WikiLeaks email dump is consistent with an oblique line in his indictment. “By in or around June and July 2016,” the description of Stone’s lies explained, “Stone informed senior Trump Campaign officials that he had information indicating Organization 1 had documents whose release would be damaging to the Clinton Campaign.”But that line didn’t disclose the most important bits of Mr. Cohen’s revelation: that among the “senior Trump Campaign officials” with whom Mr. Stone had discussed WikiLeaks’ forthcoming dumps was the candidate himself.Nor does it disclose the timing of this particular disclosure, which Mr. Cohen in his testimony recalled happened on July 18 or 19. That’s significant not just because Mr. Stone predicted the timing of the release, just days away, as he would later predict details of the release of John Podesta’s emails. But it lines up eerily with a line in the indictment of 12 officers in a Russian intelligence organization, the G.R.U., who conducted the hack of the D.N.C. That document says that on July 18, WikiLeaks informed the G.R.U. online persona, Guccifer 2.0, that it had received a one-gigabyte archive “and would make a release of the stolen documents ‘this week.’”In other words, Mr. Cohen’s revelation suggests that Mr. Stone was learning of WikiLeaks’ plans in the same time frame as the G.R.U. itself learned them. None of that changes the substance of the lies that Mr. Mueller alleges Mr. Stone told, about communicating repeatedly with WikiLeaks through intermediaries to learn about and try to influence the release of stolen documents. But it is one indication that even Mr. Mueller’s often expansive charging documents are most interesting for their silences.Mr. Mueller’s public filings have laid out a broad framework showing that Russians dangled a real estate deal and dirt on Hillary Clinton while asking for a range of sanctions relief. If Mr. Mueller were to charge this quid pro quo as a conspiracy or describe it as one in a report, it wouldn’t matter whether Mr. Trump knew of all the events that furthered the conspiracy. Because of the way conspiracy law works, it’s enough to show that Mr. Trump willingly entered into the conspiracy and took overt acts to pursue its objectives. As Mr. Cohen’s testimony illustrates, Mr. Mueller has been hiding examples where Mr. Trump did applaud the conspiracy. “Wouldn’t that be great,” he reportedly said just before the fruits of Russia’s theft would start to do real damage to Democratic fortunes.If Mr. Mueller is hiding similar examples, it suggests that whatever he plans to release in a report may have some unanticipated bombshells.Marcy Wheeler (@emptywheel) writes about national security at the website Emptywheel.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported byBy Julian E. BarnesWASHINGTON — Senator Richard M. Burr, the head of the Senate Intelligence Committee, warned American corporations on Wednesday that using Chinese technology in next-generation telecommunication networks could pose security risks, but stopped short of endorsing a ban on such equipment that the Trump administration is considering.Mr. Burr, Republican of North Carolina, said in an interview that China was making investments in key technologies, like the kind that will power fifth-generation, or 5G, cellular networks, to have “economic dominance, military dominance” over the United States.“We have to get 5G right,” Mr. Burr said. “And getting it right is contingent on the hardware that goes into the highway.”The Trump administration is considering a broad executive order banning American telecom companies from using Chinese equipment and software in new wireless networks, and has pressured allies to block Huawei, China’s leading telecommunications producer, from having a prominent role in building their 5G networks. The administration contends that whichever country dominates 5G could gain a long-lasting economic, intelligence and military edge, and has accused China of trying to secure an advantage at America’s expense.Last year, Australia banned Huawei and other Chinese companies from competing to build the 5G network in that country.Mr. Burr said the Senate was not looking at the problem with the idea of “banning or forbidding products,” suggesting such a ban would be at odds with the American system. He drew a comparison between Huawei and Russian software companies, whose use by American businesses declined once the United States government deemed their software too risky for its own computers.“I am not sure in America we can do the Australian approach,” he said. “But having a discussion about that is O.K.”Mr. Burr’s remarks came as the Department of Homeland Security conducted an educational session for American companies to warn them about broad and persistent threats from China to steal their technology, particularly by hacking cloud-based services.Telecommunications companies have met with Mr. Burr and the top Democrat on the committee, Senator Mark Warner of Virginia, and the two men have laid out their concerns about Huawei and other firms.Mr. Burr said the American government had become more open about what it shares with businesses and educational institutions about the threat from China.“It is absolutely a necessity for us to share with whoever what the risk is of making a cost-based decision versus a security-based decision,” he said. Huawei’s equipment can often be purchased at cheaper prices than that of American or European competitors.The 5G fight is only one front in an increasingly hostile battle over technology and trade between the United States and China, with Mr. Trump imposing tariffs on hundreds of billions of dollars of goods and accusing the Chinese of “stealing our intellectual property.” Mr. Burr predicted that the United States is likely to sharply reduce education visas for Chinese students, as it tries to limit the threat of American research and technology being taken back to Beijing.“I am more concerned with the fictitious effort to be educated in America — work for 10 years — with the full intent to bring back to China everything you can learn, store or steal,” Mr. Burr said.The senator said he had met with leaders of universities in his state, which include elite institutions such as Duke and the University of North Carolina, to warn them that the number of Chinese students is likely to decline.Chinese nationals make up a large number of students, particularly in graduate math and science programs. National security officials have warned that not enough guardrails are in place to prevent students from taking technology, data and know-how back to China.Mr. Burr said it was difficult to sort out students who might be intent on stealing secrets from those who simply want an education and a life in the United States, suggesting that reducing visas was the only viable solution. Chinese visas have been declining in recent years, although that is at least in part because of a change in the length of visas.“You are talking about cutting off the honey pot revenue stream of every academic institution in this country,” Mr. Burr said. “But this is about being honest and conveying the risk and the reward.”Mr. Burr also said American corporations must be more careful when investing in China, and realize the danger posed by using Chinese-made networks and storing their data in China, where the government in Beijing can gain access to it.“We believe it is important for U.S. companies to grow,” he said. “But we also owe it to them to let them understand the vulnerabilities that exist through capital deployment there, data storage there or a switch that just happens to be located on that 5G highway in an obscure place.”That was the goal on Wednesday of the Department of Homeland Security’s session for businesses on Chinese espionage.The department’s Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency highlighted how China was working to infiltrate cloud services and managed service providers, which offer remote information technology services to companies, to steal data.Groups like APT10, an arm of China’s spy service also known as Stone Panda, have used open source hacking tools and phishing attacks to steal credentials and then penetrate data stored in the cloud.The technology targeted by China is from the industries that Beijing has said it wants to dominate in its China 2025 strategic plan, said Rex Booth, a member of the Cyberthreat Risk Analysis Team at the department.“APT10 targeted a variety of organizations across the globe,” Mr. Booth said. “This reads like a shopping list from China’s strategic plans.”

Supported byLet us help you start your day.By Alisha Haridasani Gupta(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning. Chinese hackers renew attacks on U.S. entities, more violence in Kashmir pulls apart India and Pakistan, and the Roman Catholic Church prepares for its historic sexual abuse summit. Here’s the latest: Dozens of American corporations and government agencies have been hit by attacks that have been attributed to Iran, according to analysts at the National Security Agency and the private security firm FireEye. Those cyberattacks coincide with a renewed effort from China geared toward stealing trade and military secrets from U.S. military contractors and technology companies including Boeing, General Electric and T-Mobile, according to nine intelligence officials, private security researchers and lawyers familiar with the attacks.Context: Cyberespionage from both Iran and China had cooled under former President Barack Obama, who spearheaded landmark agreements with both in 2015. The attacks spiked again after President Trump waged a trade war with Beijing and reneged on the Iran nuclear deal last year.In Australia: Prime Minister Scott Morrison blamed a recent hack of Parliament’s computer network on a “sophisticated state actor,” raising the possibility of foreign interference in the country’s politics weeks before a national election. He did not identify the perpetrator, but the country has grown increasingly worried about Chinese influence.Another angle: Despite the heightened tensions, the rate of Chinese tourists visiting Australia is surging. Our team followed one group of tourists as they toured the local attractions.Decades after the crisis of clerical sexual abuse of minors first exploded into the public, victims of sexual abuse have arrived in Rome for a landmark meeting of Pope Francis and representatives of the world’s bishops’ conferences.The victims will speak of their experiences during evening prayers.Details: The meeting begins on Thursday, bringing together 190 participants from around the world, including 114 presidents of bishops’ conferences or their delegates and representatives from 14 Eastern churches.At a Vatican news conference on Monday, bishops reiterated the themes of the meeting — accountability and transparency — and its focus on the abuse of minors.Context: The meeting comes as more cases of sexual abuse emerge from the shadows, including the long-overshadowed abuse of nuns by priests.A Times investigation found that the crisis even goes beyond abuse to the suppression and shaming of homosexual priests.Over the weekend: Pope Francis expelled a former cardinal and archbishop of Washington from the priesthood after the church found him guilty of sexually abusing minors and adult seminarians. The former cardinal, Theodore McCarrick, was the first Catholic leader at that level to be defrocked for sexual abuse, a turning point in the Vatican’s approach toward the scandal.Militants opened fire on an approaching army contingent, killing an Indian Army major and at least three other soldiers in the Pulwama District. Indian officials blamed the attack on Jaish-e-Mohammed, the separatist group that claimed responsibility for a bombing last week that killed dozens of Indian soldiers, the worst attack there in three decades.The two episodes have ratcheted up tensions between India and Pakistan, breaking down diplomatic relations and sparking a wave of jingoism across India. India and Pakistan both recalled their ambassadors.Background: Both India and Pakistan, nuclear-armed neighbors, claim large parts of Kashmir, which lies between them. They have fought two wars over the territory since partition in 1947.Pakistan has a long history of supporting Kashmiri militants fighting for independence in the part India controls. Though Pakistan has formally banned Jaish-e-Mohammed, a listed terrorist organization, Indian and American officials have said the group still operates there, using alternative names.What’s next? India has vowed to hit back. The country is headed into major elections in the next few months and Prime Minister Narendra Modi is unlikely to risk looking weak. But retaliation carries huge risks.The Trump administration and the Venezuelan opposition have a new plan to weaken President Nicolás Maduro — getting desperately needed food and medicine into the country.On Saturday, the two forces are set to unleash an ambitious, coordinated land-and-sea effort to get the supplies through Colombia, Brazil and Curaçao and into the hands of thousands of Venezuelans.President Trump, at a rally in Florida, is expected to push Venezuela’s military to break ranks with Mr. Maduro and assist in accepting the aid.Uncertainty: The opposition has not said how it would break past Mr. Maduro’s blockade, saying that releasing plans would allow him to stymie the effort. Some activists have suggested simply smuggling the aid in. Others say protestors from Venezuela could overrun soldiers.Risk: Mr. Maduro has sent troops to the border, and tensions over the aid are high. One analyst warned of the possibility of “a hair-trigger moment.” And embracing Mr. Trump could make the opposition leader, Juan Guaidó, look like a U.S. puppet.Facebook: After an 18-month investigation, a British parliamentary committee issued a scathing report accusing the social media company of breaking data privacy and competition laws. The report also urged new regulations to rein in the technology industry, including making internet companies legally liable for content on their platforms.North Korea: A senior official known as Kim Jong-un’s “butler” began scouring hotels, factory sites and resorts in Vietnam in preparation for the second, highly anticipated summit meeting with President Trump in Hanoi next week.Japan: Prime Minister Shinzo Abe refused to comment on reports that he had nominated President Trump for a Nobel Peace Prize, a move that his opponents said would be “shameful” if true.Yemen: Houthi fighters have littered a million unmarked land mines across much of the country, stalling the onslaught of Saudi-backed forces but also killing as many as 920 civilians and wounded thousands of others, according to mine removal experts hired by the Saudis. The mines could kill or injure unsuspecting civilians for decades, as has been the case in Afghanistan, Colombia and Cambodia.Pakistan: Saudi Arabia’s Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman met with Prime Minister Imran Khan and pledged $20 billion worth of investments in the country — part of a broader effort to strengthen the kingdom’s ties to Asia as Western allies try to distance themselves from the crown prince.Trump vs. Europe: Leaders and officials from across the continent, particularly Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, bemoaned the Trump administration’s distaste for the international order and warned that the U.S.’s increasing isolation was emboldening Russia and China.Brexit: Wall Street’s biggest banks, including Bank of America, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, are shifting their operations from London to European capitals, reshaping the financial industry across the continent.Goa: The Indian coastal state was once an enclave for hippie Westerners who relished its laid-back culture. Now, the beachy destination is attracting a different crowd — India’s yuppies.Thailand: A rapper in Bangkok created a group called Rap Against Dictatorship that uses the art to challenge the rule of the military junta. In late October, the group released a music video, “What My Country’s Got,” that logged 20 million views within a week. “It shows that even grass-roots people are tired and want change,” said the rapper, Nutthapong Srimuong.Meg Ryan: The actor who starred in a string of romantic comedy hits from the late ’80s through the ’90s told our interviewer she decided to step out of the limelight “to live more.”Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Leave the measuring spoons aside for a simple roast fish with ginger, scallions and soy. (Our Five Weeknight Dishes newsletter has more recipe recommendations.)Jogging for 15 minutes a day, or walking or gardening for somewhat longer, could help fend off depression.We get it, we’re all busy. But real, meaningful relationships thrive when they’re face-to-face. It’s as simple as making time for them.Puccini’s “Madama Butterfly” is one of the most popular operas ever written. It would have been pretty amazing to be at its premiere, which was given this week in 1904, right?Undoubtedly — because it was one of the great fiascos in opera history.The premiere, at the storied Teatro alla Scala in Milan, was often drowned out by what one critic described as “groans, roars, moos, laughs, bellows, sneers.” The New York Times reported that the opera had been “received rather coldly.”Puccini compared the experience to a lynching. Some believed rivals had organized claques to embarrass him. Others cited the opera’s difficult subject matter: An unsympathetic American naval lieutenant impregnates and abandons a Japanese teenager, later driving her to suicide.After several revisions — including a new remorseful aria to soften the lieutenant — “Butterfly” became a hit. (The challenge in staging it these days has more to do avoiding Orientalism and cultural appropriation.)And in 2016, La Scala staged the rarely seen original version, in a symbolic act of contrition.Michael Cooper, a Times reporter who covers classical music and dance, wrote today’s Back Story.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.Alisha Haridasani Gupta writes the Morning Briefing.  @alisha__g 

Supported byGood Wednesday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today._____________________• Michael Cohen, President Trump’s former lawyer, plans to tell Congress on Wednesday that Mr. Trump is a “con man” and a “cheat” who knew an adviser was communicating with WikiLeaks about the release of Democratic emails that were hacked by Russia. He also plans to testify that Mr. Trump implicitly instructed him to lie about a Trump Tower project in Moscow. Read Mr. Cohen’s opening statement.• On the eve of Mr. Cohen’s testimony, a Republican member of Congress threatened to reveal what he said were Mr. Cohen’s extramarital affairs.• Mr. Cohen’s testimony coincides with Mr. Trump’s meeting in Vietnam with Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader. Ahead of the meeting, it seemed as if the president was retreating on his ambition to eliminate the North’s nuclear arsenal.• The choice of Vietnam’s capital, Hanoi, as the site of the Kim-Trump meeting is no coincidence: It is a bustling symbol of how a country that once fought the United States can become a fast-growing economy, even while retaining a heavy dose of authoritarian rule.• The House easily voted on Tuesday to block Mr. Trump’s declaration of a national emergency at the Mexican border, seeking to stop the diversion of funds to his wall. The resolution will now be taken up by the Senate, where it is one vote short of passage.• Although she is not a candidate, Hillary Clinton has loomed over the 2020 primary as a singular and deeply complicated figure in Democratic presidential politics.• As Mr. Trump pushes for a trade deal with China, Robert Lighthizer, the trade representative, is left defending a pact that is shaping up to be less ambitious than he once hoped.• Gun control once badly divided Democrats, but with the politics of guns changing, the House is poised to adopt legislation requiring background checks for all gun purchasers. It would be the first major expansion of gun safety laws in a quarter-century.• Lawmakers and Mr. Trump have promised to address rising drug prices; a hearing on Tuesday with seven pharmaceutical executives could be the first step to lower costs.• Jared Kushner, the president’s son-in-law and senior adviser, is traveling through the Middle East this week promoting a plan to invest tens of billions of dollars in the Palestinian territories as part of his long-promised peace initiative.• Mark Harris, the North Carolina Republican whose bid for the state’s Ninth Congressional District seat collapsed after a fraud-tainted voter-turnout effort, said that he would not run in a new election.• The architects of Senator Bernie Sanders’s insurgent campaign in 2016 abruptly parted ways with his 2020 campaign, dealing him a surprise blow one week after he entered the presidential race._____________________Today’s On Politics briefing was compiled by Isabella Grullón Paz in New York.Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox.Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.

Supported byBy Jane L. LevereTravel companies were hit by one data breach after another last year — firms including Marriott, British Airways, Delta Air Lines and the travel booking site Orbitz.Marriott estimates that as a result of its breach — in which the reservation database of Starwood-branded hotels in its portfolio was hacked — 383 million guest records could have been affected and 5.25 million unencrypted passport numbers were possibly compromised. And experts expect breaches in the travel sector will continue.“Travel companies are a prime target of cyberthefts” because they have “highly sensitive, personally identifiable information,” said Eva Velasquez, chief executive of the Identity Theft Resource Center, a national nonprofit organization in San Diego that supports victims of identity theft and seeks to broaden public awareness.But travelers do have options to protect their information.Bruce McIndoe, president of WorldAware, a risk management company, recommends creating a “digital persona” when booking travel or making other online transactions. This can include setting up a new, disposable phone number using a service like Google Voice and RingCentral to screen any calls based on caller ID, and to forward these to the phone number that you want to protect.Mr. McIndoe also suggests creating what he calls a throwaway email address, to be used only when booking online, to protect your actual personal or work email from theft. You can also keep your home and work addresses private with a service like iPostal1.com, PhysicalAddress.com and PostScanMail.com, which can create a new mailing address for you. And you can rent a post office box from the United States Postal Service, though this cannot be used for many online transactions.There are many steps you can take to protect any device you bring on business trips. If you work for a large company or service provider, like a law or accounting firm, your employer may be able to provide clean devices, even some with special protections appropriate for whatever destination you visit.Before leaving on a trip, Sam Rubin, a vice president of the Crypsis Group, a cybersecurity consulting firm, advises all travelers, regardless of the size of their employer, to make sure their laptops are encrypted, via software like BitLocker for Windows laptops or Filevault, for Macs. He also suggests backing up data regularly, installing application updates and deleting unneeded and old data from devices.The Global Business Travel Association, a trade group for corporate travel managers, suggests using a privacy filter on your laptop and tablet screen when you’re traveling. To prevent theft, lock your devices when you’re not using them, through a PIN, password protection or physical locks and alarms. The group also recommends using a juice-jack protector — attached to the end of your USB cord — to protect against data skimmers when you plug the cord into a public charging station. If you bring your own charging device, you won’t need a public charger.Experts strongly recommend not connecting to unsecured public Wi-Fi systems anywhere in the world, not only at coffee shops like Starbucks but also in airports and hotels, among other places. If you must use these, Si-Yeon Kim, chief risk and compliance officer of American Express Global Business Travel, suggests minimizing the number of documents you open, and being careful of whatever information you transmit.Christel Cao-Delebarre, the global privacy officer in London for Carlson Wagonlit Travel, a travel management company, advises being “very careful about speaking with colleagues and possibly sharing confidential information in public places.” She also urges travelers not to leave confidential documents unattended either in conference or guest rooms at hotels and elsewhere.When it comes to working online, Mr. Rubin advises using two-factor authentication on all Internet-accessible accounts. He suggests locking and password-protecting your mobile phone and configuring it to automatically lock after a period of inactivity, and using secure passwords, with a different password for each device and account. Password managers like LastPass and Keeper can help you remember and manage these.As for making purchases online, consider signing up for a credit card to be used only for such transactions. You also can set up a virtual credit card for a one-time purchase whose cost you can limit. Some of these can also be used to pay for recurring charges; those amounts can also be limited. Virtual credit cards are issued by companies such as Bank of America, Citi, Capital One, American Express and Privacy.com. According to Mr. Rubin, if the virtual credit card is compromised, it should have no impact on your physical card.Another payment option, possibly more secure than credit cards, is PayPal, said Robert Austin, president of KoreLogic, a cybersecurity company.BCD Travel, another travel management company, advises against posting pictures online of your itineraries, tickets or boarding passes. It also urges travelers to never leave their boarding passes and tickets on an airplane or in a hotel room, and to shred these once you’ve used them, all steps to keep cyberthieves from obtaining your travel details. Another protective measure is to use digital boarding passes issued by the airline, and apps like BCD’s TripSource, TripLingo, Apple Wallet and Google Pay. This information will be protected by the security code on your mobile phone even if the phone is lost or stolen.John Reed Stark, former chief of the S.E.C.’s Office of Internet Enforcement and author of “The Cybersecurity Due Diligence Handbook,” advises setting up your credit card account to automatically notify you of all transactions via email or its app, which he said will make you aware of every transaction as it occurs. He also suggests setting up a separate email account for these alerts, so you can easily track them and not clog up other accounts.To further track any suspicious activity, he advises subscribing to a credit and identity monitoring company — such as Experian, TransUnion or Equifax — that can provide alerts relating to your credit rating, credit cards and banking.For additional protection, Mr. Rubin suggests the purchase of an individual cybersecurity insurance policy, offered by companies like Chubb and NAS Insurance. Although such policies have long existed for businesses, individual policies are a new development.Henry Harteveldt, president of Atmosphere Research Group, a travel research company, said his company had found that a growing number of travelers were becoming uncomfortable with sharing their personal information with travel sellers.“The lesson for travel suppliers here is that no matter how good they think their cybersecurity hardware and software practices are, they may never be good enough,” Mr. Harteveldt said. “Sadly, there will be one hacker a step ahead at some travel company.”

Supported byGood Thursday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today._____________________• In a daylong hearing before the House Oversight and Reform Committee, Michael Cohen, President Trump’s former personal lawyer, accused Mr. Trump of an expansive pattern of lies and criminality. He offered a damning portrayal of life inside the president’s orbit — where, he said, advisers sacrifice integrity for proximity to power.• Accusations by Mr. Cohen, such as the president’s alleged knowledge of the hacked Democratic emails released by WikiLeaks, could create new legal issues for Mr. Trump. His testimony also revived questions about whether Mr. Trump broke the law by failing to disclose that he had footed the bill for a hush payment to a pornographic film actress.• The searing portrait that Mr. Cohen delivered — one of a lying, cheating, racist president who used money and threats to conceal immoral and illegal behavior — will test both parties as they hurtle toward a political confrontation over the fate of the Trump presidency.• Mr. Cohen’s testimony sealed the breakup of a 10-year relationship with Mr. Trump, one that associates described as a mix of lawyer and client, father and son, and the blind loyalty of henchman to crime boss.• Far away from Capitol Hill, Mr. Trump was in Hanoi, Vietnam, meeting with the North Korean leader Kim Jong-un for the second time. The talks ended early, with no agreement on even the first steps toward denuclearizing the North. Asked about Mr. Cohen’s testimony, Mr. Trump said, “He lied a lot.”• Prosecutors have revised their account of how Paul Manafort, Mr. Trump’s former campaign chairman, lied about his contacts with a business associate whom they have linked to Russian intelligence services.• The attorney general for the District of Columbia has subpoenaed documents from Mr. Trump’s inaugural committee. He is the latest official to delve into the committee’s fund-raising and spending, and he appears to be looking for possible evidence of self-dealing.• The House voted to require background checks for all gun purchasers — including those at gun shows and on the internet — in the first significant gun control bill to clear the chamber in over two decades. Here’s more about the vote, and a look at what the next steps could be.• More than 100 House Democrats rallied around a “Medicare for all” bill that would eliminate most private health insurance. The proposal, which was light on details, highlighted a split within the party.• The North Carolina political operative who oversaw a fraud-ridden voter-turnout effort in the state’s Ninth Congressional District on behalf of a Republican was arrested on Wednesday over his work in a previous election.• Beto O’Rourke says he has “made a decision” about his political future. What is it? He’ll tell you “soon.”• Gavin Newsom, the governor of California, stopped by The Times to talk to the Editorial Board. Our California Today newsletter has the details, including his thoughts on the future of his state and working with other West Coast governors. (California residents, and anyone else interested, can sign up for that newsletter here.)_____________________Today’s On Politics briefing was compiled by Isabella Grullón Paz in New York.Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox.Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.

Supported byBy Ali Winston and Ali Watkins[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]President Trump, who has frequently pointed to the violent MS-13 street gang to justify his immigration policy, could not have choreographed a better political talking point if he had tried. Two days before Tuesday’s State of the Union address, a deadly shooting on a Queens subway platform catapulted the gang’s brutality back onto the national stage.The police have said the man charged with the killing, Ramiro Gutierrez, is a member of MS-13, a transnational gang founded in Los Angeles with ties to El Salvador. The slaying featured prominently in Mr. Trump’s address.Mr. Gutierrez, 26, was in the country without documentation and had a long arrest record, the authorities said. He is accused of firing six shots at close range into a rival gang member’s head in front of horrified straphangers. At the time, Mr. Gutierrez was out on $2,500 bail after being arrested in a gang takedown last December.But missing from Mr. Trump’s speech was an important nuance: The shooting does not signal a recent rise of the gang in Queens, experts said. Neither MS-13, nor its rival, the 18th Street gang, is new to New York City. They have been a violent presence in the city for two decades, despite repeated prosecutions, and the shooting on Sunday was just the latest incident in a complicated history between the two gangs.Around 12:45 p.m. on Sunday, a fight broke out between four men on a Manhattan-bound 7 train. When the train pulled into the 90th Street-Elmhurst Avenue Station, the brawl spilled out onto the platform.In a bystander’s video, a man the police later identified as Mr. Gutierrez is shown extricating himself from the melee and standing up, grasping what appears to be a small revolver. Mr. Gutierrez, who is from El Salvador, can then be seen pointing the gun at a man on the ground wearing a Mets jersey — later identified as Abel Mosso.Six shots rang out, as bystanders screamed and ran for cover on the stalled train. Mr. Mosso was struck several times in the face and died on the platform. The police arrested Mr. Gutierrez on Monday on charges of murder and gang assault.Mr. Mosso, a Mexican citizen, was a purported member of the 18th Street Gang. Both men, according to immigration officials, were in the United States without documentation.Though both gangs began in Southern California in the mid-1980s and quickly became archrivals, MS-13 and 18th Street had established a presence in eastern Queens, and neighboring Nassau and Suffolk Counties by the mid-1990s.Lou Savelli, a former sergeant and head of the Police Department’s first citywide gang unit, said MS-13 and 18th Street have been active in New York City and the surrounding region ever since. Mr. Savelli, who retired from the department in 2004, first encountered MS-13 while working gang cases in the 109th precinct in Flushing.During MS-13’s early years in New York, the gang would sometimes be targeted by the squad for acts of violence, he said. “We did some short-term things on machete cases where they chopped up one guy, shot and killed another guy, and another case where they ran an auto-theft ring,” Mr. Savelli said.The rival 18th Street gang was less organized, Mr. Savelli said.Raphael Ramos, a former sergeant in the Queens gang squad, said the 18th Street gang controls the lucrative trade in forged documents along Roosevelt Avenue between 90th Street and 82nd Street.“Historically, that’s been their territory, and they’re known as M-18,” Mr. Ramos said.The Queens district attorney and the United States attorney’s office in Brooklyn have filed dozens of criminal cases against MS-13 members over the past decade, with charges including racketeering, conspiracy, murder, fraud and robbery.Aided by statements like Mr. Trump’s in his State of the Union address, MS-13 has achieved an almost mythic level of infamy in the world of street gangs. Their notoriously gruesome killings — members have been known to cut the hearts out of victims or hack people to death with machetes — began surfacing in New York and Long Island as far back as the mid-1990s.The gang has plagued Long Island and Queens in recent years with a series of brutal slayings. In 2016, the gang killed two teenage girls in Brentwood — Nisa Mickens, 15, and her best friend Kayla Cuevas, 16 — in a case that drew national attention and landed the victims’ parents an invitation to Mr. Trump’s first State of the Union address.Last summer, 15-year-old Angel Soler was found in a Long Island field, hacked to death by a machete, a murder law enforcement officials attributed to MS-13. And in December, a 23-year-old man was found dead in a Queens bird sanctuary after MS-13 members lured him there, prosecutors said.Beyond murder and assault, the MS-13 gang has also been linked to drug and gun trafficking, as well as extortion and racketeering schemes; the 18th Street gang is better known for prostitution, protection rackets and selling forged documents.Still, the gangs exist in pockets of the city, and the violence they generate is seldom random, law enforcement officials said. Often, it involves turf wars and other immigrants. Other gangs — the Bloods, the Crips, the Latin Kings, the Trinitarios — are a higher priority for the New York Police Department.“I wouldn’t put them at the top of the pecking order of what we see day in and day out,” said Chief Dermot Shea, who runs the department’s detective bureau.It took years for law enforcement to sketch out MS-13’s inner workings, and to recognize its hierarchy. It was far more organized than most street gangs, almost akin to the Mafia, prosecutors said.That learning curve helped MS-13 survive.“The guys who get caught with the gun at the murder scene, they’re going to be replaced,” said James Trusty, a former prosecutor who led the Justice Department’s Organized Crime Division. “The only way you’re going to actually dent the organization as a whole has got to be holistic.”As MS-13 established its foothold in the mid-2000s, approaches to crackdowns varied between the three major American metropolises where the gang existed — New York, Los Angeles and Washington.Prosecutors in Los Angeles and outside the capital built complicated conspiracy cases, taking out MS-13 leaders, but in New York prosecutors favored striking fast, arresting two or three people at a time after murders and robberies.Long Island prosecutors changed their tactics after a spike in MS-13 violence in 2016 and 2017 led to at least 22 killings. Madeline Singas, the Nassau district attorney, indicted 17 MS-13 members in January 2018, including the man believed to be the highest-ranking member in the Northeast.“It’s tough for the organization to bounce back from that,” Ms. Singas said.Still, Ms. Singas said she does not believe that Long Island’s crackdown pushed the gang west into Queens.“They were in Queens before, too,” she said. “It’s not like they moved there because Nassau became inhospitable to them.”Liz Robbins contributed reporting. Susan Beachy contributed research

Supported byBy Julian E. BarnesWASHINGTON — The American military took down a Russian troll farm last Election Day in a cyberattack that continued for several days after the vote, part of what United States officials have said is a persistent campaign to block and deter interference in American democracy.The operation was intended to prevent the Internet Research Agency, based in St. Petersburg, Russia, from spreading propaganda or disinformation aimed at undermining confidence in the midterm vote or the results of the election, American officials said.The operation was aimed at taking the Internet Research Agency off line for several days, from Election Day until the results were certified by local officials.The Internet Research Agency, the best known of the Russian troll farms that create large amounts of propaganda, has been accused by the United States government of meddling in the 2016 elections. It is not part of the Russian government, but is controlled by oligarchs loyal to President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia.Intelligence agencies had assessed that the Russian troll farms that create and spread disinformation in the United States and Europe were likely to step up their disinformation activity on the day of the vote and while votes were being counted.Officials said the Election Day operations were part of a larger campaign led by United States Cyber Command and the National Security Agency to secure the midterm vote. Those operations began with a campaign of direct messages sent to Russian operatives who had created disinformation and propaganda aimed at sowing dissent and undermining confidence in American voting systems. Those direct messages were aimed at deterring the creators of propaganda.The Election Day operation, reported Tuesday by The Washington Post, was conducted under new authorities authorized by the White House. The new authorities, officials said, have sped up decision making, ensuring that bureaucratic concerns do not get in the way of taking action.Intelligence officials have said it is difficult, if not impossible, to use cyberoperations to take an adversary off line permanently. Cyberweapons typically exploit unpatched vulnerabilities in software. Given time, the target of an operation can find workarounds or fix software problems, restoring its internet connectivity or computer operations.Because of that, officials said, the operations against the Internet Research agency were designed to last only for a limited number of days.Joseph R. Holstead, the deputy director of Cyber Command public affairs, said the military did not “discuss classified cyberspace planning and operations.”“U.S. Cyber Command will continue to work as part of the whole-of-government effort to defend our elections and democratic institutions from foreign malign influence,” Mr. Holstead said.After the election, under another White House executive order, the director of national intelligence conducted an analysis of foreign interference during the midterm election.That report, which has not been made public, found that the Russians sought to interfere in the vote, not by trying to hack voting machines but by spreading disinformation. The report found that Russia used social media, fake personas and Moscow-controlled media to inflame opposite ideological sides with an aim of further polarizing the United States.On Capitol Hill, intelligence committee officials declined to discuss the Election Day cyberoperation.But after a hearing on the rise of authoritarianism in Russia, China and elsewhere, Representative Adam B. Schiff, the California Democrat who leads the House Intelligence Committee, said Russian efforts to interfere in elections were continuing.“There is a prioritized part of the Russian agenda to not just interfere in our democracy but interfere in democracies in Europe,” Mr. Schiff said. “They are pushing their authoritarian model to undermine institutions that reinforce democracy.”

Supported byA generation of the young with dead-end social and economic prospects, calling themselves “dirt spoons,” aimed to strike it rich. They’ve ended up with big losses. By Alexandra Stevenson and Su-Hyun LeeSEOUL, South Korea — Kim Ki-won is keeping a secret from his parents.It isn’t just that he has bought and sold an immense number of digital coins. Mr. Kim, who is 27 and lives with his parents, once made so much money trading cryptocurrencies that he was spending $1,000 a month on whatever he wanted. He quit his job. He borrowed to buy more. He planned to buy a house.Today he sits slumped over, at times hiding his eyes behind his hair. Which brings us back to Mr. Kim’s secret: He has lost a lot of money, perhaps tens of thousands of dollars.“I don’t think it’s fair that people call it gambling,” he said of his cryptocurrency obsession. “But there are elements of truth here and there.”A generation of young South Koreans like Mr. Kim, looking for a way out of their dead-end prospects, has helped turn the country into a capital of the wild world of cryptocurrencies. Now that the market has virtually collapsed, many people young and old are mired in debt and losses. Still, many young South Koreans continue to see digital money as a way to break out. South Korea remains the third-largest market for virtual currency, behind the United States and Japan. A total of $6.8 billion in cryptocurrencies changed hands in January, according to the data provider Messari. South Korea is a major trading hub for Bitcoin, the best-known cryptocurrency, as well as a wide variety of other virtual currencies that exist without the backing of any country’s central bank. Cryptocurrencies have become a cultural phenomenon in the country. Coffee shops print their own digital coins. A national television network made a game show called “Block Battle,” in which contestants — one named “Kimchi Powered” — battled to build a company based on cryptotechnology. On a recent evening in Seoul, a group of women and men in their 60s and 70s gathered at an event lit by strobe lights for the start of a new digital coin.But it was millennials like Mr. Kim who led the charge. Many call themselves “dirt spoons,” a reference in South Korea to economic and social status, with gold and silver spoons being the best off and dirt spoons being the worst. Cryptocurrencies seemed to be a way to disrupt that social order. “There is no true opportunity in South Korea for the average young person,” said Kim Han-gyeol, 23, who graduated from a vocational school and became a part-time software developer for an e-book company. She lives with her parents and works part time at Dunkin’ Donuts, studying English online at night.At first, she made a lot of money investing in cryptocurrencies. She used a few thousand dollars she made to buy nice clothes for herself and her mother, and dreamed of starting a coffee shop with her loot. Then, she lost nearly all of it. “I felt a sense of shame when I lost money on my Bitcoin investments, not once but twice because of my greed to make a fortune in one go,” she said. Even still, she added, she’ll stick to digital coins.“There is nowhere else to go to recover my losses anyway,” she said.Being young in South Korea can be defeating and stifling. To succeed is to get either a government position or a job at one of a small but powerful group of family-owned conglomerates that control most of the products Koreans use. This requires getting into one of a handful of exclusive universities, a feat that has become so difficult that many young people delay applying for several years.Income inequality is among the worst in Asia. Youth unemployment is 10.5 percent and has hovered near that figure for the past five years even as overall unemployment is 3.4 percent. Young Koreans are called the “sampo generation,” a portmanteau referring to the three things they have given up on: courtship, marriage and family.Adding to their sense of disillusionment is a string of political scandals, including one that led to the impeachment of former President Park Geun-hye, that exposed the deeply entrenched ties between South Korea’s powerful conglomerates and politicians.When cryptocurrency came along, it set off discussions in chat rooms, weekly hangouts and even intellectual salons created just for digital coins: Could this new system uproot South Korea’s rigid social order?Buying digital coins was a lot easier than buying stocks or getting a loan to start a business. Kim Ki-won needed to invest only a small amount in the early days. “It was an opportunity for me to make big money,” he said, his eyes wide with excitement even now thinking about the prospect.For Remy Kim, a 29-year-old who is host to several cryptocurrency channels on the social media app Telegram, digital money could mean nothing short of revolution.Online he goes by “Les Mis,” after “Les Misérables,” the Victor Hugo tale of the poor rising up in revolution. Mr. Kim writes about Cryptopia, a future where everyone is equal and the social constructs that money creates don’t exist. “Crypto played a role in shifting wealth from one group in society to another,” he said. “It has affected Korean society tremendously.” Mr. Kim discovered cryptocurrencies after his computer was hacked by a person who demanded Bitcoin in ransom. In the end, he paid the hacker 1.2 Bitcoins — which at the time was worth nearly $800. Soon he was buying digital coins for himself, riding a Bitcoin bubble that peaked at more than $19,000 for a single Bitcoin.He made enough to buy himself a half-million-dollar navy blue Rolls-Royce. As far as he knows, “I’m the youngest person in Korea with a Rolls-Royce,” he said. Mr. Kim said he had since lost much of what he made, but he doesn’t like to dwell on this. (He still has the Rolls.)Last year, South Korea’s government mulled shutting down virtual currency exchanges where investors buy and sell, saying that it was starting to look a lot like gambling. At the time, some exchanges were processing transactions worth hundreds of millions of dollars. But the news caused an outcry, and the government merely barred cryptocurrency investors from opening new anonymous accounts linked to banks in an attempt to crack down on money laundering.Even some former cryptocurrency evangelists warn that the best days are over. They include Kimchi Powered, the contestant on the “Block Battle” television show. Kimchi Powered, whose real name is Jung Ki-young, made it all the way to the show’s finals, in part by entertaining the judges with silly costumes. On the night of the final round, Mr. Jung, 36, wore a shimmering suit jacket. He still invests in cryptocurrencies, but warns others that there aren’t as many opportunities to make money as before.“Many people are very depressed these days because the price of Bitcoin has dropped,” he said in an interview. “It was my intention to give people a reason to laugh rather than trying to win the competition.” Falling prices aren’t the only reason South Koreans can’t make money as they did before. Big companies increasingly overshadow small investors. Hyundai, a major conglomerate, created a blockchain platform called HDAC and advertised the technology at the World Cup. A unit of Lotte, a conglomerate that became embroiled in a corruption scandal in 2017, has worked with blockchain start-ups.A number of South Koreans have also been hit by scams. “Koreans lack knowledge about finance,” said Remy Kim, the investor who goes by Les Mis and who gives tips and information on how cryptocurrencies work. “They are stingy at the store, but then they poured everything into cryptocurrencies.”Still, many dirt spoons hold on to the hope that cryptocurrencies will turn back around. Kim Ki-won said he would tell his parents about his cryptocurrency obsession soon. But first, he wants to make enough to start a business. He is sure that the market will turn around.“I have nothing to lose,” he said. “I always wanted to be rich.”Alexandra Stevenson is a business correspondent based in Hong Kong, covering Chinese corporate giants, the changing landscape for multinational companies and China’s growing economic and financial influence in Asia.  @jotted • Facebook 

Supported byLetter 95By Damien CaveThe Australia Letter is a weekly newsletter from our Australia bureau chief. Sign up to get it by email.___Earlier this week, a colleague, David D. Kirkpatrick, was detained by the Egyptian authorities for several hours then forced onto a flight back to London.His crime was simply flying to Cairo — and doing journalism that looked critically at Egypt’s leaders, both for The New York Times and in a recent book, “Into the Hands of the Soldiers.”As far as threats to the press go, it was not as bad as it could be. Three journalists have already been killed this year just for doing their jobs, according to the Committee to Protect Journalists, and 54 were killed in 2018, including Jamal Khashoggi.David’s experience, though, points to a related and more pervasive issue: the ways governments threaten, intimidate and undermine journalists and factual reporting.Visas are an especially familiar weapon. Authoritarian countries like China, North Korea, Venezuela and Cuba often make it difficult for foreign reporters to get journalism visas and the right to report.Other countries, like Papua New Guinea, are more subtle about it. They tend to ignore requests for press visas, forcing some of us to go anyway on a different kind of visa, which then gives the authorities the ability to kick us out.When I was in Manus, an island there, reporting on the detention center there in late 2017, for example, I was visited repeatedly by the authorities, then detained for more than an hour at the airport in Port Moresby as they made clear that it was time for me to go.Many of The Times’s foreign correspondents have experienced this sort of thing (or worse) over the years, in various places.Being a foreigner and a New York Times reporter tends to help — it’s always local journalists who face greater danger, as I saw in Mexico and Iraq — and the threats we face did not used to be something many journalists or media companies talked about very often.But what’s interesting is that for The Times at least, that’s changing.Our new publisher, A.G. Sulzberger, has been especially vocal as of late, advocating on behalf of journalism and journalists, and trying to persuade President Trump to tone down his rhetoric, such as his references to journalists as the “enemy of the people.”This week that dispute flared up yet again.A.G.’s main point speaks to something that is sometimes easy to overlook; that however flawed journalists and our journalism may be, demonizing journalists — especially as a group — hurts democracy, and has the potential to be deadly.Just this week, the authorities in Maryland said a Coast Guard lieutenant and self-described white nationalist who had been arrested was plotting to kill several prominent American journalists, among others.“The phrase ‘enemy of the people’ is not just false, it’s dangerous,” A.G. wrote in a statement this week responding to President Trump’s latest broadside (perhaps inspired by this story from us with new details about his efforts to undermine the special counsel investigation). “It has an ugly history of being wielded by dictators and tyrants.”What you’re seeing now, A.G. argues (along with many political scientists), is the spread of that particular virus.When the only defenders of journalism are journalists — when elected officials in a democracy behave as if reporters are combatants — leaders with tyrannical instincts become emboldened.You see it not just in Egypt, but also in Turkey, Hungary, China and the Philippines, where the authorities recently arrested Maria Ressa, a co-founder of an online news start-up critical of President Rodrigo Duterte.Australia is also not immune to politically stoked media hatred. Many Australians hear echoes of Trump’s statements in the outbursts of Peter Dutton, the home affairs minister. But you can also hear it once in a while from Prime Minister Scott Morrison, who has a tendency to dismiss tough questions from reporters with accusations of bias, while former prime ministers — Kevin Rudd and Malcolm Turnbull — have turned their frustration with the Murdoch-media into extended rants.This does not seem to be something that’s likely to go away. Making the media an enemy is an easy way to delegitimize coverage that aims for accountability, and because the journalism business is struggling and increasingly distrusted, journalists are easy to dismiss as a group.The only antidote that I can see is you — readers and supporters of independent credible journalism.So the next time you see hear someone criticize “the media,” do me a favor: Ask them to be more specific and remind them that we’re not a monolith.Yes, there are journalists who make mistakes, yes there are forces of partisanship and commercialism that taint what you get from some outlets — but there is also a lot of strong work being done to examine and scrutinize power, and provide people with the information they need to make good decisions.There is a mission to guide us — we seek the truth and help people understand the world. And there is courage and determination in our ranks.That’s what David represents. That’s what Egypt’s leaders fear.Now for a few examples from the past week. Share your thoughts by email (nytaustralia@nytimes.com) or in our NYT Australia Facebook group.___This feature on the Catholic Chruch’s struggle with sexual abuse was reported from four continents, and it’s filled with reporting and insight that made me wonder about not just religious institutions but the state of the human condition.Just when you think you’ve read and seen it all with this scandal, something new emerges.___Sui-Lee Wee, one of our business reporters in China, just keeps turning out one jaw-dropping story after another. You should follow her on Twitter if you aren’t already.And you should read her investigation into the business of DNA and Chinese surveillance. Really.___• Where are smartphones heading? And do we really need what they’re offering? Brian Chen tries to break it down for us.• What should you look for when you first land in a new city? Travel has the answers.• You must love someone’s perfume or cologne … but how do you find one for yourself? Here are a few useful tips to scent up your life.___A pretty varied mix this week, reflecting our effort to be both more ambitious and more fun.News and Features• A War Memorial Is Being Expanded. Some Say It Whitewashes History. The Australian War Memorial, at a cost of hundreds of millions of dollars, will grow to commemorate recent conflicts, including war zones in which Australia still has troops.• Julie Bishop Quits Australian Politics, Adding to Exodus of Conservative Women: Ms. Bishop, the former foreign minister, said she would not run in the next election. Last year she lost a party leadership vote that would have made her prime minister.• Australia’s Prime Minister Blames ‘Sophisticated State Actor’ for Parliament Hack: Australia has been unable to determine which country was behind a hack of Parliament and the country’s political parties weeks before a national election.• New Zealand’s Former Leader Is Depicted by China as Praising Its Policies: Former Prime Minister Jenny Shipley gave an interview to a Communist Party newspaper in December. This week, it ran her remarks as a glowing op-ed piece.For Fun• Opinion: How Australia’s Image Went from Crocodile Dundee to $39 Hand Soap: The evolution of Antipodean hip.• Nigella Lawson Was Never Just a Domestic Goddess: The culinary star looks back at her career and the international celebrity — and scrutiny — that came with it.• How an App Creates ‘Disturbingly Agile Millennial Thumbs’: Isabella Kwai, a reporter in Australia, rarely takes notes on paper anymore and instead uses her iPhone. She can still look sources in the eye while typing.___David Sanger, The Times’s national security correspondent, is in Sydney for a handful of events all on Mon. Feb 25.If you care about foreign policy and the shifting nature of global power, this is a rare opportunity to hear about it straight from the man whose been reporting on it for three decades at The New York Times. Here are the details:• 10 a.m. to 10:45 a.m. A.E.D.T., join David Sanger on a group phone call with Jamie Tarabay, a Times correspondent based in Sydney. Free for Times subscribers anywhere. Register here.• 12:30 p.m. to 1:30 p.m. A.E.D.T. How are nations using cyberconflict to compete with and undercut each other? David will be speak on this and more at the Ibis Room the Pullman Sydney in Hyde Park. Free, but registration required.• 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. A.E.D.T., For this discussion and audience Q. &amp; A. at the University of Sydney, David will be joined by former colleague and New York Times journalist Raymond Bonner and a co-founder of the Sydney Cybersecurity Network, Dr. Frank Smith. Free, but registration required.Damien Cave is the Australia bureau chief for The New York Times. He’s covered more than a dozen countries for The Times, including Mexico, Cuba, Iraq and Lebanon. Follow him on Twitter: @damiencave.

Supported byTrilobitesResearch shows how the Antarctic blackfin icefish differs from its close relatives on the genetic level.By JoAnna KleinThe Southern Ocean around Antarctica was once warmer. Then about 30 million years ago, the temperature dropped. Few fish could survive temperatures that were just above seawater’s freezing point, and they either migrated to warmer waters or went extinct.One bottom-dweller held on. Through the power of natural selection, its descendants developed traits that let them survive these unlikely conditions. Today, the Antarctic blackfin icefish, or Chaenocephalus aceratus, thrives in these frigid waters with no scales, blood as clear as water and bones so thin, you can see its brain through its skull.[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]How this creature — no longer a bottom-dweller — can live in such a hostile environment has long fascinated scientists, who have mapped its genome and continued exploring its unusual traits. In a paper published Monday in Nature Ecology and Evolution, a team of scientists compared the genome of the Antarctic blackfin icefish to those of its close relatives. They found that, across these genomic maps, and tens of millions of years of evolution, gene families had shrunken or expanded, giving rise to some of the icefish’s most unusual features. In addition to revealing how the icefish managed to adapt to extreme Antarctic conditions, the team’s findings provide a new way to look at the genetics behind human diseases such as anemia and osteoporosis.“A trait that’s maladaptive in one environment can be adaptive in another,” said H. William Detrich, a marine scientist at Northeastern University who has been studying icefish for decades and helped lead the study. He added that, “we can learn a lot about human physiology and medicine by studying these evolutionary outliers.”The icefish first surprised science with its clear blood after a Norwegian zoologist caught one in the early 20th century. The species no longer makes red blood cells and hemoglobin to carry oxygen through its body. Those traits are essential to the survival of other vertebrate species, all 60-some-thousand of us.Now, why would the icefish go and do a thing like that?Becoming the modern icefish required millions of years of natural gene hacking. Parts of their genomes that, in adults, were dedicated to making antifreeze for blood were greatly expanded. More genome space became dedicated to making ice-preventing proteins in the shell-like casings that surround icefish embryos.Frigid water holds more gasses, including oxygen, than warmer water does. But in water so cold, red blood becomes gunky, hard to pump and more likely to freeze. So the fish basically “evolved a therapy for anemia,” said John Postlethwait, a developmental biologist at the University of Oregon who also worked on the paper. It developed supersize gills and lost its scales, which enabled it to absorb the water’s plentiful oxygen through its skin. It also expanded its circulatory system with extra vasculature and a heart four times the size of closely related, red-blooded species.Over evolutionary time, the icefish accumulated lipids, or fats, which, like oil, float in water. It also developed floppy bones that were less mineralized than those of their ancestors. This allowed the icefish to rise in the water column, like spaghetti in boiling water, and eat krill and other creatures that couldn’t be found near the sea floor.The research team is still working to understand how these adaptations in bone density are reflected in the icefish genome. That may lead to insights into how humans lose bone density and develop osteoporosis with age, the researchers said.Similarly, by looking at how the icefish gets by with severe anemia, scientists may learn something about why humans don’t.Creatures such as the icefish are what Charles Darwin called “wrecks of ancient life,” because they lost important traits of their ancestors, like red blood cells and dense bones. Dr. Postlethwait calls them “evolutionary mutant models,” because their genomes could help explain why some physiological traits can be adaptive for one animal but disease states in another.The icefish may be a wreck of ancient life, but it’s a wonderful wreck.

Supported byLet us help you start your day. By Penn BullockGood morning. Venezuela’s opposition plans a dramatic next move, Chinese and Iranian hackers step up anti-U.S. efforts and Facebook is excoriated in a British report. Here’s the latest: The Trump administration and the Venezuelan opposition have a plan to weaken President Nicolás Maduro: getting desperately needed food and medicine into the country.On Saturday, the two forces are set to unleash an ambitious, coordinated land-and-sea effort to move supplies through Colombia, Brazil and Curaçao and into the hands of thousands of Venezuelans.At a rally in Florida, President Trump contentiously framed the struggle as against socialism broadly. “In Venezuela, and across the Western Hemisphere, socialism is dying and liberty, prosperity and democracy are being reborn,” he said. “We seek a peaceful transition of power, but all options are open.”Ahead: The opposition has not said how it will break past Mr. Maduro’s blockade, saying that releasing plans would allow him to stymie the effort. Some activists have suggested simply smuggling the aid in. Others say protesters from Venezuela could overrun soldiers. Risk: Mr. Maduro has sent troops to the border, and tensions over the aid are high. One analyst warned of the possibility of “a hair-trigger moment.” And embracing Mr. Trump could make the opposition leader, Juan Guaidó, look like a U.S. puppet. Dozens of American corporations and government agencies have been hit by attacks that have been attributed to Iran, according to analysts at the National Security Agency and the private security firm FireEye.Those cyberattacks coincide with a renewed effort by China to steal trade and military secrets from U.S. military contractors and technology companies that include Boeing, General Electric and T-Mobile, according to nine intelligence officials, private security researchers and lawyers familiar with the attacks.Context: Cyberespionage from both Iran and China had cooled under former President Barack Obama, who reached landmark agreements with both in 2015. The attacks spiked again after President Trump opened a trade war with Beijing and reneged on the Iran nuclear deal last year.France is having a crisis of conscience about its perennial and growing problem of anti-Semitism after Alain Finkielkraut, one of the country’s leading essayists and critics from the right, was mobbed by Yellow Vest protesters near his Paris home over the weekend and assailed with anti-Semitic insults. The son of an Auschwitz survivor, he was told to “Go home to Israel!”Mr. Finkielkraut renounced his support for the Yellow Vest movement last week, attracting the ire of its members. Fueled by economic and class resentments, the protesters have previously given off whiffs of anti-Semitism, with coded conspiracy theories about Jewish influence circulating at the edges of the movement. The police are investigating the invective against Mr. Finkielkraut, who has been accused of prejudice himself over his views on immigration. By the numbers: Episodes of anti-Semitism in France jumped 74 percent last year, to 541, up from 311 in 2017, according to government data. (There has also been an uptick in New York.)In Britain: Seven lawmakers resigned from the Labour Party to become independents, one of them accusing Jeremy Corbyn, the Labour leader, of tolerating anti-Semitism in the party, and others denouncing him for refusing to call for a new referendum on Brexit. Decades after the crisis of clerical sexual abuse of minors first exploded into public view, victims of sexual abuse have arrived in Rome for a landmark meeting Pope Francis is holding with representatives of the world’s bishops’ conferences.The victims will speak of their experiences during evening prayers. Context: The meeting comes as more instances of sexual abuse emerge, including the long-overshadowed abuse of nuns by priests. A Times investigation found that the crisis even goes beyond abuse to the suppression and shaming of homosexual priests. And the Vatican revealed to The Times that it has general guidelines for what to do when clerics break celibacy vows and father children. Some of those children will be at the meeting.Over the weekend: Pope Francis expelled a former cardinal and archbishop of Washington from the priesthood after the church found him guilty of sexually abusing minors and adult seminarians. The former cardinal, Theodore McCarrick, was the first Catholic leader at that level to be defrocked for sexual abuse.In the Southern Baptist church: The largest evangelical denomination in the U.S. announced initial recommendations for addressing revelations of rife sexual abuse in Southern Baptist churches across the country.Facebook: After an 18-month investigation, a British parliamentary committee issued a scathing report accusing the social media company of breaking data privacy and competition laws. Trump vs. Europe: At a security conference in Munich last week, the rift between Europe and the Trump administration became open, angry and concrete, diplomats and analysts say. Leaders and officials from across the continent, particularly Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, laced into the Trump administration’s foreign policy and warned that U.S. isolationism would embolden Russia and China.Brexit: Wall Street’s biggest banks, including Bank of America, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, are shifting their operations from London to European capitals, reshaping the financial industry across the continent. And Honda said it would close its plant in Swindon, which employs 3,500 workers, by 2021.Yemen: Houthi fighters have left a million unmarked land mines across much of the country, stalling the onslaught of Saudi-backed forces but also killing and maiming civilians. U.S.: A coalition of 16 states, including California and New York, challenged President Trump in court over his plan to use emergency powers to spend billions of dollars on his border wall.Poland: After Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel said on Thursday that “the Poles cooperated with the Nazis” in the Holocaust, Poland’s president withdrew on Monday from a trip to Israel that was planned with the leaders of three other East European countries. Kashmir: Militants in the disputed region killed an Indian Army major and at least three other soldiers just days after carrying out a bombing that left more than 40 Indian paramilitary officers dead. The attacks have unleashed jingoism across India and raised the specter of conflict with Pakistan. Transportation: Virgin Hyperloop One, a company based in Los Angeles and partly backed by Sir Richard Branson, is testing a mass transit system that would put passengers in pods speeding through vacuum tubes at more than 600 miles per hour.  While such visions are a distant dream, hyperloop companies have attracted key talent and enthusiastic municipalities.Technology: The founder of the Chinese technology giant Huawei, breaking from the company’s previous silence about U.S. criminal charges against the company and his daughter, a top executive, called the case against her politically motivated.Is the game called “tag,” “tig,” “tick” or “it”? Dive into our British-Irish dialect quiz.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Leave the measuring spoons aside for a simple roast fish with ginger, scallions and soy. (Our Five Weeknight Dishes newsletter has more recipe recommendations.)Jogging for 15 minutes a day, or walking or gardening for somewhat longer periods, could help fend off depression.We get it, we’re all busy. But real, meaningful relationships thrive when they’re face-to-face. It’s as simple as making time for them.Puccini’s “Madama Butterfly” is one of the most popular operas ever written. It would have been pretty amazing to be at its premiere, which was given this week in 1904, right?Undoubtedly — because it was one of the great fiascos in opera history.The premiere, at the storied Teatro alla Scala in Milan, was often drowned out by what one critic described as “groans, roars, moos, laughs, bellows, sneers.” The New York Times reported that the opera had been “received rather coldly.”Puccini compared the experience to a lynching. Some believed rivals had organized claques to embarrass him. Others cited the opera’s difficult subject matter: An unsympathetic American naval lieutenant impregnates and abandons a Japanese teenager, later driving her to suicide.After several revisions — including a new remorseful aria to soften the lieutenant — “Butterfly” became a hit. (The challenge in staging it these days has more to do with avoiding Orientalism and cultural appropriation.)And in 2016, La Scala staged the rarely seen original version, in a symbolic act of contrition.Michael Cooper, a Times reporter who covers classical music and dance, wrote today’s Back Story.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.

Paul Manafort’s Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dad’s Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back”House Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City Hotline2011: Arab Spring‘Can The President Be Impeached?’ We Answer Your QuestionsCalving Season

Supported byBy Daniel E. SlotnikDick Churchill, the last living participant in a daring breakout from a German prisoner-of-war camp that inspired the 1963 movie “The Great Escape,” died on Feb. 12 at his home near Crediton, Devon, England. He was 99.His son Roger confirmed the death by email.Paul Royle, the second-to-last surviving prisoner to escape from Stalag Luft III in 1944, died in 2015 at 101. Many British news media outlets and other sources called Mr. Churchill the last surviving prisoner who had taken part in the escape.The Germans captured Mr. Churchill, a squadron leader at the time, after they shot down the bomber he was flying over the Netherlands in 1940. He was transferred to Stalag III, about 100 miles southeast of Berlin, in 1942, and soon a few hundred prisoners began excavating tunnels to escape.Mr. Churchill later recalled that the inmates had felt that they had to do something, even though it would have probably been safer to try to wait out the war.“Were you going to sit and enjoy the very few delights of a barbed-wire prison camp until you were rescued by your comrades, if you were rescued, or were you going to try and get out of the place and rejoin, and drop something on them?” Mr. Churchill asked in a BBC interview in 2018.Mr. Churchill helped dig the three main tunnels, which the prisoners called Tom, Dick and Harry. It was arduous, nerve-racking work, done with improvised tools and the constant risk of discovery or a cave-in.“You didn’t have any air,” Mr. Churchill said, “and you had a little fat lump lamp, which was Reich margarine, which spluttered, with a bit of pajama cord or something similar, which sucked up the oil and gave you a little bit of a light. And you hacked away at your sand, pushed it behind you, where another fool took it further back.”The tunnels were cleverly concealed, but Tom was discovered by the Germans in 1943 and Dick proved unusable. On a frigid night in March 1944, Mr. Churchill was one of 76 prisoners to make their way through the tunnel called Harry and out of Stalag III.The escape was delayed for more than an hour, and the tunnel mistakenly ended yards from the forest that the escapees had hoped would conceal them, forcing them to scramble for cover over open ground.Once free of the camp, Mr. Churchill, in improvised clothing, had hoped to pass as a Romanian woodcutter; he had spent months studying Romanian. But after fleeing with Flight Lt. Bob Nelson and spending two days hiding in the woods as the Germans searched the area, they were discovered hiding in a hayloft.Paul Brickhill, an Australian P.O.W. who took part in the prison break, wrote the book, “The Great Escape” (1950), that was the basis for the movie, which starred Steve McQueen, Charles Bronson, Richard Attenborough and James Garner. The film added embellishments, most memorably when Mr. McQueen’s character vaulted a barbed-wire fence on a motorcycle.Most of the escapees were recaptured in days — only three made it to freedom — and 50 were executed. On why he was spared, Mr. Churchill speculated that his captors might have believed that he was related to Prime Minister Winston Churchill and could therefore be a bargaining chip. (He said they were not related as far as he knew.)Mr. Churchill told The Telegraph in 2014 that he thought that the escape had been “a worthwhile venture” despite its terrible cost.“If nothing else, you are doing something towards the target of getting out and getting back to what you were doing before, whether it’s flying fighters or dropping bombs” instead of giving in to despair, he said.Richard Sydney Albion Churchill was born on Jan 21, 1920, in East Molesey, Surrey, England, to Sidney and Elsie (Taylor) Churchill. His father was a civil servant. He graduated from the Tiffin School in Kingston-Upon-Thames and in 1938 joined the Royal Air Force and trained as a pilot.Nazi fighters shot down Mr. Churchill’s bomber on Sept. 2, 1940, during a nighttime raid on Ludwigshafen, Germany. The explosion damaged one of his eardrums before he could bail out, and his hearing in that ear never recovered.Mr. Churchill left Stalag Luft III for good in January 1945, when the Nazis evacuated the camp before the Soviet Army could reach it. The prisoners were forced to march west through deep snow and punishing cold and were liberated by British forces that spring.After the war Mr. Churchill worked with the R.A.F. for a time, but his damaged eardrum kept him from flying again. His son said he had worked mainly in export sales and marketing.In 1950 he married Patricia Lane, who died in 2013. In addition to his son Roger, he is survived by another son, David, and five grandchildren.Doris Burke contributed research.Follow Daniel E. Slotnik on Twitter: @dslotnik

Supported byIts plan to combine Instagram, WhatsApp and Facebook Messenger entrenches its monopoly power, and the F.T.C. should step in.By Sally HubbardMs. Hubbard is an editor at The Capitol Forum.In response to calls that Facebook be forced to divest itself of WhatsApp and Instagram, Mark Zuckerberg has instead made a strategic power grab: He intends to put Instagram, WhatsApp and Facebook Messenger onto a unified technical infrastructure. The integrated apps are to be encrypted to protect users from hackers. But who’s going to protect users from Facebook?Ideally, that would be the Federal Trade Commission, the agency charged with enforcing the antitrust laws and protecting consumers from unfair business practices. But the F.T.C. has looked the other way for far too long, failing to enforce its own 2011 consent decree under which Facebook was ordered to stop deceiving users about its privacy claims. The F.T.C. has also allowed Facebook to gobble up any company that could possibly compete against it, including Instagram and WhatsApp.Not that blocking these acquisitions would have been easy for the agency under the current state of antitrust law. Courts require antitrust enforcers to prove that a merger will raise prices or reduce production of a particular product or service. But proving that prices will increase is nearly impossible in a digital world where consumers pay not with money but with their personal data and by viewing ads.The integration Mr. Zuckerberg plans would immunize Facebook’s monopoly power from attack. It would make breaking Instagram and WhatsApp off as independent and viable competitors much harder, and thus demands speedy action by the government before it’s too late to take the pieces apart. Mr. Zuckerberg might be betting that he can integrate these three applications faster than any antitrust case could proceed — and he would be right, because antitrust cases take years.Luckily, the F.T.C. has a way to act quickly. Prompted by the Cambridge Analytica scandal, the agency has been investigating Facebook for violating that 2011 consent decree, which required it, among other things, to not misrepresent its handling of user information and to create a comprehensive privacy program. The F.T.C. can demand Facebook stop the integration as one of the conditions for settling any charges related to the consent decree, rather than just imposing an inconsequential fine.If not stopped, the integration will cement Facebook’s monopoly power by enriching its data trove, allowing it to spy on users in new ways. Facebook might decide to sync data from one app to another so it can better track users. And Facebook needs user data: The reason it commands such a large share of digital advertising is that it tracks users — and even people without Facebook accounts — across millions of sites. It gathers data that allows it to target ads more precisely than many of its rivals for digital ad dollars, including news media sites and content creators.After stopping Mr. Zuckerberg’s integration plan, the F.T.C. should reverse the WhatsApp and Instagram acquisitions as illegal under the Clayton Act, which prohibits mergers and acquisitions where the effect “may be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly.” Undoing the mergers would give consumers an alternative to Facebook-owned apps and force Facebook to do better. Without meaningful competition, Facebook has little incentive to protect users by making changes that could reduce profits. Users unhappy about data collection and algorithms that promote fake news and political polarization don’t have anywhere to go.Any future Facebook acquisitions, no matter what the size, should be strictly reviewed because of the company’s history of deceiving users. Facebook uses technology, like its Onavo and Research apps, that monitor consumers’ app usage to identify potential rivals even before they are big enough to get on antitrust enforcers’ radars. Internal Facebook documents published by the British Parliament show Facebook used Onavo data to identify WhatsApp as a competitive threat, only to convince regulators otherwise.Congress also should write legislation to overrule misguided cases that have neutered antitrust enforcement, and pass a strong privacy law with enough resources to enforce it. Only then, perhaps, will we be protected from Facebook. Sally Hubbard (@Sally_Hubbard) is a former assistant attorney general in the New York State Attorney General’s Antitrust Bureau and an editor at The Capitol Forum, where she covers technology and monopolization.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported byIn this drama, the stakes are enormous. By Nicholas KristofOpinion ColumnistThe Trump-Russia story is a drama that has unfolded in four acts.George Stephanopoulos: “Are there any ties between Mr. Trump, you or your campaign and Putin and his regime?”Paul Manafort: “No, there are not. That’s absurd.” — July 24, 2016 Donald Trump: “I have nothing to do with Russia. I don’t have any jobs in Russia. I’m all over the world, but we’re not involved in Russia.” — July 26, 2016Hope Hicks: “There was no communication between the campaign and any foreign entity during the campaign.” — Nov. 11, 2016Chris Wallace asks if there were any contacts between the Trump campaign and Russia.Mike Pence: “Of course not. Why would there be?” — Jan. 15, 2017 “There were contacts,” according to a Russian official. — N.Y. Times, Nov. 10, 2016“Trump campaign had at least 18 undisclosed contacts with Russians.” — Reuters, May 18, 2017“Members of the Trump campaign interacted with Russians at least 32 times.” — The Washington Post, Nov. 13, 2017“Trump and his associates had more than 100 contacts with Russians before the inauguration.” — N.Y. Times, Jan. 26, 2019“Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered an influence campaign in 2016 aimed at the U.S. presidential election.” — U.S. Intelligence Community assessment, Jan. 6, 2017Russian agents purchased advertising on Facebook and distributed inflammatory posts that reached at least 126 million Facebook users. The Russians published more than 131,000 messages on Twitter and uploaded more than 1,000 videos on YouTube. — Statements by the companies prepared for congressional hearings, October 2017.Russian intelligence conspired “to gain unauthorized access (to ‘hack’) into the computers of U.S. persons and entities involved in the 2016 U.S. presidential election, steal documents from those computers, and stage releases of the stolen documents to interfere with the 2016 U.S. presidential election.” — Indictment of 12 Russians, July 13, 2018President Trump acknowledges that even as his presidential campaign was underway in 2016, his business was in discussions with Russia about building a Trump property in Moscow. — N.Y. Times interview, Jan. 31, 2019Paul Manafort tells prosecutors on undisclosed date or dates that he had repeated talks with a Russian, Konstantin Kilimnik, who is believed to have ties to Russian military intelligence. Kilimnik flew to New York for one crucial dinner meeting on Aug. 2, 2016, while Manafort was Trump’s campaign chairman, and they discussed a peace proposal for Ukraine that would resolve the dispute over Putin’s intervention there. This issue was high on Putin’s agenda.Manafort may also have handed over confidential polling data to Kilimnik; it’s not clear if this could have been used for Russian interference in the U.S. election.A federal prosecutor, Andrew Weissmann, says on Feb. 4, 2019, “This goes, I think, very much to the heart of what the special counsel’s office is investigating.”Manafort and Kilimnik left the Aug. 2 meeting separately by different exits.“I have been living in a personal and mental incarceration ever since the fateful day that I accepted the offer to work for a famous real estate mogul whose business acumen I truly admired. … It was my own weakness, and a blind loyalty to this man that led me to choose a path of darkness over light.“It is for these reasons I chose to participate in the illicit act of the president rather than to listen to my own inner voice, which should have warned me that the campaign finance violations that I later pled guilty to were insidious. … Most all, I want to apologize to the people of the United States. You deserve to know the truth, and lying to you was unjust.” — Michael Cohen, statement to the court, Dec. 12, 2018, after earlier confessing to lying to Congress about Trump’s investment interest in RussiaA recent Washington Post/Schar poll found that 43 percent of Americans still are skeptical that Russia interfered with the 2016 election. That should no longer be in doubt.What isn’t clear is the role that the Trump campaign played, if any, in that interference.What we do know is that there were more than 100 contacts between Russia and the Trump campaign; moreover, Robert Mueller, the special counsel, has shown that four people in Trump’s orbit lied about contacts with Moscow.Unlike a play, the stakes here are enormous: This drama is about the integrity of America’s political system. We should be careful about assuming we can predict the ending, but I keep coming back to Vice President Pence’s excellent question when he denied — falsely — that there had been any contacts between Russia and the Trump campaign: “Why would there be?”The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Nicholas Kristof has been a columnist for The Times since 2001. He has won two Pulitzer Prizes, for his coverage of China and of the genocide in Darfur. You can sign up for his free, twice-weekly email newsletter and follow him on Instagram.  @NickKristof • Facebook 

Supported byThe conversationAnd it’s got a little bit of everything.By Gail Collins and Bret StephensMs. Collins and Mr. Stephens are opinion columnists. They converse every other week.Gail Collins: Bret, in honor of Valentine’s Day, I’m going to give you the gift of deciding what current event we should start off with. Virginia? Jeff Bezos? Trump investigations? Supreme Court? Rapidly exploding population of Democratic presidential candidates?Bret Stephens: Oh, Gail — that’s the most wonkishly romantic gesture I’ve ever heard. Maybe we should talk about Bezos, because it involves a lot of double entendres and it reads like the next installment in the E.L. James series. Let’s call it “50 Shades Richer.” Billionaires! Sex! Political intrigue! Allegations of blackmail! And a storybook villain named David Pecker, which is a name worthy of a Charles Dickens character.Gail: The Bezos story does have everything, including Donald Trump, whose great pals at The National Enquirer got hold of, um, embarrassing pictures Bezos exchanged with his girlfriend. Then according to Bezos — who’s the owner of The Washington Post — Pecker’s team threatened to make them public unless he said the National Enquirer’s stories about his sex life weren’t politically motivated.Several thoughts here. One is that even if you’re a super-billionaire, texting a “below the belt selfie” is a bad plan. But that aside, it seems as if Bezos has been handling the whole thing well. And third: Everything sleazy always seems to wind up with a Trump connection.Bret: Yes, Bezos has dealt with it brilliantly. It helps — how shall I put this delicately? — that his pride got the better of his embarrassment, and that there was nothing embarrassing about his pride.Gail: O.K., that’s a quote to remember.Bret: It also helps that Bezos has the financial means and journalistic tools to get to the bottom of the hacking. I don’t know if the government did the hacking — the truth is probably prosaic, but Pecker’s friendship with Trump raises an eyebrow — but if it did it would be a scandal for the ages.Gail: In an age when it’s hard to ignore any big political scandal, we’re going to be reminded of this one every time we see a package from Amazon, which is approximately every three waking minutes of the day.Bret: Even now the connections are tantalizing. Why is Pecker “apoplectic” about Bezos’ investigation into who leaked the story to the Enquirer and whether the leak was politically motivated? And how might the potential withdrawal of legal immunity that Pecker obtained last year in connection with his handling of Trump’s hush money payments to his mistresses affect the Southern District’s investigation of Trump’s probable violations of campaign-finance laws?Going forward, I think we need to start describing all of these ties as the Axis of Pecker. Just saying.Gail: Pecker politics definitely tops anything else we can possibly talk about. Still, I have to ask you about Virginia. You wrote a very powerful column taking the governor’s side. I wonder if that’s what convinced him to refuse to resign.Bret: Thanks, though I think he had made up his mind before my column appeared.Gail: But we may differ on this blackface thing. I came from a pretty conservative background but I can’t think of ever seeing anybody at my college putting shoe polish on their face or a sheet over their head under the theory that it would make them look cool. And Ralph Northam was in medical school! I know medical students aren’t all the omni-dedicated healers we saw on “E.R.” But good grief.Bret: I don’t know if we really differ. But I think context and intention matter. Billy Crystal did “blackface” for a Sammy Davis Jr. impression, and I don’t think Crystal is racist in any respect. Jimmy Fallon, Jimmy Kimmel and Sarah Silverman, to name a few boldface names, have all done blackface. If we’re going to start excommunicating people from public life for this, we’re going to destroy a lot of people who almost surely intended no harm.Gail: Yeah, but I don’t remember Billy Crystal doing his act with a guy wearing a sheet.Bret: That’s true. And I think that’s in a different league in terms of offensiveness. But again, I think we need to better understand the context, whether it was connected to a pattern of behavior, and whether it was ever repeated. And again, we are talking about an incident from 35 years ago followed by an admirable life without any hint of racial bias.Right now, Northam’s real moral jeopardy is that he has contradicted himself and is doing a duck-and-cover move. He has a good opportunity to rise above it, first by clarifying how exactly that photo ended up on his yearbook page — and whether he’s one of the people in the picture, as he now claims he isn’t — and then by explaining why the casual racism of a past generation mustn’t be communicated to the present.Gail: I do find it hard to believe he looked at that picture and said: “Who are these people? How did they get in my yearbook?” He’d be a gone goose now if the Legislature wasn’t busy talking about trying to impeach the lieutenant governor over some terrible allegations of sexual assault.Did you know Virginia has, for all practical purposes, a one-term limit for governors? I’m wondering if that has anything to do with all these crises.There was a time when I thought term limits were a great idea. But I’ve cooled on it. When you’ve got a politician who isn’t going to be able to run for re-election, you’ve got a politician spending a whole lot of time planning how to get the next job. Plus you get a lot of … strange people. Rest my case.Bret: Well, we agree on term limits. Let’s switch topics to oversight and investigations. I’m as eager as anyone to see what’s in Trump’s tax returns. But how do Democrats handle this to make sure it doesn’t redound to Trump’s political benefit?Gail: You mean how do they avoid having so many people investigating him the public begins to feel sorry for him?Bret: I mean, going down every rabbit hole means that you are going to come up empty many times. That can do as much to obscure criminal behavior as it can to expose it, and to desensitize the public to the significance of truly scandalous disclosures when they are merely bobbing in the sea with not-so-scandalous ones.It doesn’t help when cable TV is obsessing about this stuff 24/7. I think the investigations would be better helped if news about them came out only once every other week, with Representative Adam Schiff or someone like him saying: Here’s the stuff we’ve learned, here’s why it matters, here’s what we’re going to look into next and here’s why.Gail: Well, cable TV does cover other stuff — I’m just sitting here watching CNN cover climate change in Louisiana. But the producers know what the public is obsessing about, and so do politicians. When they see their constituents these days, the first question a lot of them get isn’t “How’s the infrastructure bill doing?” It’s “What are you going to do about Trump?”Not that I’m demeaning the poor infrastructure bill.Bret: I long for the days when we could debate the merits of, say, the Davis-Bacon Act, and not the emoluments clause and how Trump is probably violating it. That said, I do think people will ultimately judge Congress by whether it’s working for them and not on political score-settling.In the meantime, it looks like we may be heading for another government shutdown. Is this really happening? I didn’t realize it was possible for an administration to commit suicide twice.Gail: This administration? Hahahahahaha.I have hope we won’t smash into another shutdown, but it’s hard to tell. Right this second it looks like it’s not happening, but it’s complicated because Trump would have to accept what’s basically a face-saver on the wall issue. And give a little bit to the Democrats, who want to reform his mean, miserable border detention policies. In a normal world, that would happen. I miss the normal world.What do you think?Bret: I think Trump’s calculation is that he can do a Groundhog’s Day in reverse: That is, shut down the government again and again, and behave worse with each successive iteration. This rallies his base while, at some point a majority of Americans will say, “Just give him his darn wall.” Or so he figures. But we’ll have to see how he reacts to the “agreement in principle” that the House and Senate seem to have reached.Gail: Don’t think Bill Murray would like us turning over his “Groundhog Day” role to Donald Trump.Bret: The alternative narrative, and the more convincing one, is that Trump has continued to play games with the livelihoods of American workers for the sake of a bit of fencing that solves nothing except his own political problems. One thing that is becoming clear is the G.O.P. campaign theme for 2020. They are going to claim Democrats are the party of socialism, open borders, nationalized health care, and an environmentalist agenda that will wind up outlawing air travel and steaks and maybe even milk, too.Gail: The Republicans are indeed ranting now about the Green New Deal, which Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and other Democrats put forward. A.O.C. did mention eliminating “emissions from cows or air travel,” but — contrary to Trump’s swipes — that was a rather lighthearted description of a perfect future rather than a part of the plan.And Trump has been playing the socialism card, but I don’t think it’s going to work. There are a number of Democrats who’d like to move toward a society that offers health care for everyone, free college tuition for those who can’t afford to pay, and federal work programs for the unemployed — paid for by much higher taxes on the rich. Most Americans want the same things. If the Democrats are smart about the way they present the programs, things should be fine.I am aware, Bret, that this sort of talk causes you great pain. That’s why we’re in different political camps.Bret: It causes me great pain because I’m attached to no party: I can’t support the Trumpian G.O.P. but I can’t support the Democrats, either, as long as they’re repudiating their belief in traditional liberalism for the sake of an anticapitalist, ruinously expensive policy agenda. I would love to hear a Democrat say, as Hillary Clinton did, we are not Denmark! And I fear the Democrats’ new progressivism will so turn off voters that they’ll re-elect Trump as the better of two bad alternatives.All of which is to say, we’ll have plenty to converse about in the months ahead. And maybe we might even disagree a bit more.Gail: Amen.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Gail Collins is an Op-Ed columnist, a former member of the editorial board and was the first woman to serve as Times editorial page editor, from 2001 to 2007.  @GailCollins • Facebook Bret L. Stephens has been an Opinion columnist with The Times since April 2017. He won a Pulitzer Prize for commentary at The Wall Street Journal in 2013 and was previously editor in chief of The Jerusalem Post.  @BretStephensNYT • Facebook 

Supported byBy Karen ZraickStores and restaurants in several states would be required to do something pretty basic if certain lawmakers have their way: accept their customers’ cash.The legislation comes amid a worldwide move toward cashless payments using cards or mobile devices, which supporters say are safer, quicker and more convenient. But critics say an outright ban on cash discriminates against those without credit or bank accounts, and raises concerns about privacy and data security.The New Jersey Legislature and the Philadelphia City Council have passed measures this year that would ban cashless stores. New York City, Washington, San Francisco and Chicago are weighing similar bills.“It’s important to recognize the fact that not everyone has access to banks or lines of credit,” said State Senator Nellie Pou, one of the sponsors of the bill in New Jersey.Ms. Pou, who represents the Paterson area, said that she had many constituents who lack bank accounts, including low-income families deterred by fees and minimum balance requirements. (A report by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation in 2017 estimated that 6.5 percent of American households were “unbanked.”) Older adults also may not have electronic payments set up, or be comfortable using them, she noted.The penalties in the proposed bills range from hundreds to thousands of dollars. In the New Jersey bill, they could go up to $5,000 for a second offense. A spokesman said the governor was considering whether to sign the legislation.Ms. Pou said that business groups and Amazon had expressed opposition to the bill, and that she had worked with businesses to include exceptions like airports, parking facilities, car rental companies and any “internet-based transaction.”She added that she had asked Amazon, which is operating five pop-up stores and one bookstore in New Jersey, to come up with ideas for how they could serve those without a bank account, but that she had not heard back. Amazon declined to comment.Massachusetts already has a little-known law requiring retail stores to accept both cash and credit. There have been calls for the legislature to clarify whether the law, approved in 1978, applies to restaurants.Retailers that have adopted cash-free policies argue that the majority of their customers already pay electronically and that not having to fumble with cash makes the lines go faster for everybody. Without cash on hand, employees are free from a number of related tasks, like counting it and transporting it to the bank or an armored truck. A lack of cash also cuts down the danger of robbery or theft.Coins and paper currency remain the most popular ways to pay in most countries. But longer term, cash appears to be locked in a losing battle with electronic payment methods.“It’s more efficient for our teams and restaurants because they’ll get back hours of their day to cook and spend time with you in the restaurant instead of the administrative work associated with cash,” the salad chain Tender Greens said in an online statement when it put a cash-free policy in place last year.Other shops and restaurants that have instituted cash-free policies — some in just one location, some in many or all — include Starbucks, Dig Inn, Dos Toros, Sweetgreen and Argo Tea. In-flight purchases on airplanes have been cash-free for a long time, and some government offices do not accept cash.But critics have raised concerns about the vulnerability of digital transaction systems to misuse by the state, private companies or hackers, not to mention power failures during natural disasters.Ritchie Torres, a councilman from the Bronx who introduced the New York City bill, said he had concerns about the implications of a cashless economy “for New Yorkers who face historically rooted barriers to both credit and banking.”“What if you have no papers? What if you have no credit history?” he asked.“The goal here is not to stifle technological progress,” Mr. Torres said. “A cashless payment can be one option among many, but it should never be the sole option.”Stephanie Martz, senior vice president and general counsel of the National Retail Federation, argued that businesses should be able to decide themselves how to operate.But she added that only a “handful” of businesses were experimenting with cashless payment, and that the vast majority of small purchases were still made in cash.“We don’t see that going away anytime soon,” she said.Around the world, some countries have outpaced the United States in developing and instituting electronic payment technologies. Sweden has perhaps moved fastest toward a cashless society, with some officials now trying to pull the reins on a process that could upend the role of the state as sovereign guarantor.In China, many consumers use their mobile devices to pay for goods and services through WeChat and Alipay. Even some street musicians use QR codes to collect money from passers-by.The South Korean central bank has called for a “cashless society” by next year. And India has heavily promoted cashless transactions — even banning large bills — as Prime Minister Narendra Modi sought to root out corruption and achieve his vision of a “digital India.” But most Indians continue to use cash.Credit card companies and banks, of course, have championed the greater use of cashless payments. In an article for The Guardian last year, Brett Scott, a British activist and author, argued that the seemingly “obvious and natural” evolution toward cash-free payments was “the direct result of a hegemonic project on the part of financial institutions.”“The true motive is corporate profit,” he wrote.

Supported byBig CityBy Ginia Bellafante[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]This week, the City of New York, through its Commission on Human Rights, officially banned discrimination based on hairstyle, making it one of the rare municipalities in the country to codify the link between prejudice and personal presentation. What this means, essentially, is that employers, landlords, school principals, gym owners, club managers and other institutions and gatekeepers who engage in a persistent form of racism that renders certain judgments of how African-Americans wear their hair, will now be subject to penalties and civil damages should they harass, threaten, fire or deny admission or affiliation to anyone based on a particular set of grooming choices.While it may defy belief that such a clarification would be needed in such a progressive part of the world at the close of the second decade of the 21st century, examples of bias expressed through rules or policies against cornrows, Afros, Bantu knots and other means of wearing hair that do not conform to European standards, in fact, abound.Curly hair, coiled hair, black hair is a trigger, it seems, that reveals the bigotry of people who don’t understand themselves as bigoted, people who just imagine themselves as upholding “standards.”Two years ago, for instance, a young black woman working at a Banana Republic in Westchester County was told by a white male manager that her braids were not “Banana Republic appropriate,” that they were too “unkempt” and “urban” and that he would not be able to schedule her for more shifts unless she took them out. When she told the manager that they protected her hair from becoming coarse in cold weather, he suggested she try some shea butter. Ultimately, he was let go.More recently, state officials in New Jersey opened a civil rights investigation into the case of a black high school wrestler who was told by a referee that his locs violated competition rules. The wrestler, Andrew Johnson, resigned to getting his hair cut right before a match he would have otherwise been made to forfeit.Along with the commission’s announcement on new enforcement guidelines, it said that in the span of just the past few months it had received many complaints of discrimination based on hairstyle. It is currently investigating seven cases, one involving someone who was fired from her job simply for wearing her natural hair down.While this sort of discrimination is common in the retail sector, it is hardly exclusive to the sales floor. Recently, I spoke with Marissa Jackson, a deputy at the Commission on Human Rights, about her own experiences encountering disapproval of the way she put herself together during a past professional life.Several years ago she worked as a summer associate at a prominent Wall Street law firm and routinely straightened her hair. “I went through a period of my life of wanting to fit in and straighten it,” she told me. After she graduated from Columbia Law School and studied at the London School of Economics, she came back to the firm with less of a compulsion to conform and decided to get locs.This was hardly welcome. One partner would never talk to her or make eye contact. “There was this idea that I had tricked people and would be jeopardizing my career,” she told me. “‘Oh, what are you doing? You should have straight hair!’ My white colleagues didn’t say this to me. It was my black colleagues who had internalized these racist ideas and were afraid of what this assertion of identity would mean.” She left the firm and went to work for a black judge.The insidious irony here is that prestigious law firms and big corporations have made efforts to relax the workplace for decades. This usually played out in selective ways for a select group of people. Casual Fridays, which gained popularity in the 1990s, were the vehicle by which middle-age white men could more comfortably be themselves, accommodating expanding waistlines in pleated khakis and fleece vests. These were baby boomers, rebellious in their own minds, who were liberated from the suits that did not speak to who they believed they really were.The rise of Silicon Valley start-up culture gave white men — young white men in particular — even further license to express their authentic identities. When he began his career, Mark Zuckerberg could walk into any boardroom in the country wearing a hoodie, the style signature of fetal billionaires.But how would a young black man be perceived, even today, in the same situation, styled in similar adolescent fashion and with hair that made him look like Questlove? Young black men are told to pull up their pants and look responsible if they want to earn a decent living; young white men have learned that they can rule the world looking like 15-year-olds who have been gaming for the past 36 hours.The casual workplace is, in the end, just another manifestation of white privilege. In 1992, the city of Santa Cruz, Calif., with a population that was 79 percent white, passed an ordinance that made discrimination against appearance unlawful. Santa Cruz was the city of surfers and skateboarders and hackers in tattoos and piercings. Someone thought to protect them a very long time ago.Email bigcity@nytimes.com. Follow Ginia Bellafante on Twitter: @GiniaNYT

Supported byAn existential threat for the 21st century.By David BrooksOpinion ColumnistI’ve always thought Americans would come together when we realized that we faced a dangerous foreign foe. And lo and behold, now we have one: China. It’s become increasingly clear that China is a grave economic, technological and intellectual threat to the United States and the world order.And sure enough, beneath the TV bluster of daily politics, Americans are beginning to join together. Mike Pence and Elizabeth Warren can sound shockingly similar when talking about China’s economic policy. Nancy Pelosi and Republicans sound shockingly similar when they talk about Chinese human rights abuses. Conservative and liberal policy thinkers can sound shockingly similar when they start talking about how to respond to the challenge from China.For the past few decades, China has appeared to be a net positive force in world affairs. Sure, Beijing violated trade agreements and escalated regional tensions. But the Chinese economic explosion lowered our cost of living and expanded prosperity worldwide.But a few things have now changed. First, instead of liberalizing, the Chinese regime has become more aggressive and repressive.Second, the Chinese have changed their economic focus so that their economy can directly replace ours. The regime’s “Made in China 2025” policy is an attempt to go up the value chain and dominate high-tech industries like aerospace, robotics and biotech.According to a report just released by Marco Rubio, the chairman of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, China’s artificial intelligence industry has grown by 67 percent over the past year and has produced more patents than its U.S. counterparts. One estimate suggests China is investing as much as 30 times more capital in quantum computing than the U.S. My colleague Thomas L. Friedman notes that China already has the No. 1 and No. 3 drone manufacturers in the world, and it is way ahead of us on technologies like facial and speech recognition.All this would be fine if China were simply competing, but it’s not. It’s stealing. A commission led by retired Adm. Dennis Blair and former U.S. ambassador to China Jon Huntsman estimated in 2017 that the annual loss to the U.S. economy from Chinese intellectual property theft was between $225 billion and $600 billion.Some of the theft is done through hacking. Some of it is done by surreptitiously buying tech firms through shell companies in order to seize the technologies. Some of it is pure espionage and thuggery. Sometimes China offers to give American companies access to its markets in exchange for the technology, and then after China has digested the knowledge it closes off access. This is not competition. This is replacement.Third, Beijing is trying to seize the controlling centers of the new tech economy. If China can set the standard for 5G communication and dominate artificial intelligence and quantum computing, then it will be able to write the rules and penetrate the fibers of our society and our lives in ways that we cannot match.Fourth, the Chinese challenge is no longer just economic; it’s moral and intellectual. It’s a clash of two value systems. And many people around the globe now believe that Beijing’s values are better.We used to think China would democratize. Wrong. We used to think the regime would liberalize. Wrong. We used to think the Chinese people would rise up and join the free democratic world. Wrong.A fascinating essay by Wenfang Tang in American Affairs makes for humbling reading for anybody who thinks we can take the superiority of our system for granted. Chinese people have more trust in their governing institutions than Americans do. In a 2008 study, 78 percent of Chinese said their government responds to their needs, compared with 33 percent of Japanese and 21 percent of South Koreans. Chinese society has much more trust and social capital than American society. China, Tang notes, has the second-highest level of social trust in the world, after the Netherlands.If we don’t learn to make the case for our system, if we don’t make our system better, a lot of people everywhere will say: I’ll take what they’re having.The big debate is: How do we respond? The Rubio report — “Made in China 2025 and the Future of American Industry” — makes for compelling and fascinating reading: “This report’s central conclusion is that the U.S. cannot escape or avoid decisions about industrial policy.”Free-market Republicans used to fight against industrial policy — heavy government intervention to support key sectors — until their dying breaths. But the Chinese threat is already fundamentally changing thinking across the board. The Rubio report seeks to move beyond the free-market/statist dichotomy and find new ways to proceed.The biggest change may be to the American identity. As Reihan Salam asks in The Atlantic, if China is the “other” against which we define ourselves, then who are “we”? If China is an existential threat to the liberal international order, do we have the capacity to improve our system so it can face the challenge — to invest in human capital, to reform our institutions, repair the social fabric and make our political system function once again?The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.David Brooks has been a columnist with The Times since 2003. He is the author of “The Road to Character” and the forthcoming book, “The Second Mountain.”  @nytdavidbrooks 

Supported byHungry City13 PhotosView Slide Show ›By Ligaya MishanThe first McDonald’s in the Philippines opened in 1981, ready to conquer. Instead, it met its match: Jollibee, originally a small suburban ice cream franchise that started selling burgers in the late 1970s. By 1984, it had clobbered its American rival, cornering the fast-food market on its home turf and still dominating it to this day.Jollibee’s founder, Tony Tan Caktiong, had studied the competition. So by the time Ronald McDonald set foot in Manila, with his billowy yellow jumpsuit and shock of red hair, the clown had been pre-empted by a tall, red-and-yellow-striped bee in a dapper little chef’s hat, bow tie and tails.A glossy statue of the plump-cheeked bee greets diners at the chain’s first outpost in Manhattan, which opened in October near the Port Authority Bus Terminal. (There are 37 Jollibees in the United States.) The night before, people waited in line in the rain to be the first diners, some wearing antennas and wings.What inspires such loyalty? Long ago, fried chicken eclipsed burgers as Jollibee’s most sought-after offering. The pleasures of Chickenjoy, as it’s called, are immediate: The sheath of skin is as craggy as a thunderhead, crannies and crunch multiplying.Underneath, the flesh is juicy, with its own generous measure of salt and secret seasonings, if not quite as potent as the skin’s. Online recipe hacks typically deploy garlic and Chinese five-spice to approximate the skin’s fervor. Spicy Chickenjoy is even better, both marinade and breading infiltrated with some form of chile — flagrant but not searing, just enough to jack up the pulse.Every order of Chickenjoy comes with gravy, whether you order a side of mashed potatoes or not. This makes sense given the elevated place of condiments in Filipino cuisine, although my mother, who grew up in Cotabato City in the southern Philippines, prefers to dunk a drumstick in ketchup or the Filipino enhancement of it, bolstered with banana — sadly not stocked here.Mr. Tan Caktiong, the son of poor Chinese immigrants, is now a billionaire, and 150 Jollibees are set to open in the United States within five years. Like the Manhattan store, many will be outside immigrant enclaves, waylaying diners with limited knowledge of Filipino food.These newcomers may be slightly baffled by the Jolly Spaghetti. It looks Italian, with its blanket of ragù, but under the ground beef are nubs of hot dog and ham, and the presiding note is sweet. It’s fairly mellow, as Filipino spaghetti goes, with more of an earthy counterpoint than other versions of the dish I’ve tried. (That includes an anemic McSpaghetti, the McDonald’s take, in Manila years ago.) But it may not bridge the cultural divide.This is a missed opportunity, because Jollibee has a great Filipino noodle dish on its roster, currently unavailable in Manhattan: palabok, rice noodles in a rich, briny sauce, traditionally made with shrimp stock and crushed shrimp shells and heads. Jollibee’s closely guarded recipe may differ, but the finished dish — as served at its branch in Woodside, Queens, which opened in 2009 — arrives appropriately attired, heaped with ground pork, a dusting of crushed chicharron, hard-boiled eggs and a few scattered shrimp.So the shrimp are as pale as fingernails. What do we ask of a quick-serve restaurant, beyond a dish that we don’t have time to cook at home, made with some sense of honor for what the dish could be, despite a limited budget for ingredients? In Queens, Jollibee’s palabok costs $6.19, drink included. It is delicious.Only in Queens, too, on this strip known as Little Manila for its population of Filipino immigrants, will you find Jollibee’s halo-halo, feathery shaved ice under orbs of ube (purple yam) and jackfruit ice cream and a tilting block of leche flan. At the bottom, waiting to be dredged up, are beans boiled in sugar and wobbly nata de coco (coconut water fermented into jelly).At the Manhattan storefront, this is edited down into a sundae of vanilla soft-serve topped with nata de coco, chickpeas and a daub of ube halaya (half-custard, half-jam) — the best parts, too few, and gone too quickly.Fortunately, both locations sell peach-mango pie, which may be as close as you can get to your childhood memory of McDonald’s apple pie, back when it was still deep-fried. Jollibee’s has a gilded sleeve of bubbled crust and a filling no sweeter than need be; take one home, crisp it in the oven the next day, and it still makes life complete.At the end of a long day, Jollibee is a startlingly uncynical place to be. The Queens outpost, at 10 years old, still looks new, with its shiny communal tables under red lampshades; a manager leaped to open the door for me when I left. And in Manhattan — even though I knew it was a script, that it couldn’t possibly be personal — when the cashier said, “Have a jolly night,” I did.609 Eighth Avenue (40th Street), Midtown West; 212-994-2711; jollibeeusa.com; and 62-29 Roosevelt Avenue (63rd Street), Woodside, Queens; 718-426-4445; jollibeeusa.comFollow NYT Food on Twitter and NYT Cooking on Instagram, Facebook and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.An earlier version of this article and a picture caption accompanying the slideshow misidentified the latest American branch of Jollibee. It is a location in Las Vegas, not New York.An earlier version of this article misstated the name of a noodle dish on the menu at the Queens branch of Jollibee. It is called Palabok Fiesta, not Fiesta Noodles.This information was last updated on March 20, 2019

Supported byPhys EdJogging for 15 minutes a day, or walking or gardening for somewhat longer, could help protect people against developing depression.By Gretchen ReynoldsJogging for 15 minutes a day, or walking or gardening for somewhat longer, could help protect people against developing depression, according to an innovative new study published last month in JAMA Psychiatry. The study involved hundreds of thousands of people and used a type of statistical analysis to establish, for the first time, that physical activity may help prevent depression, a finding with considerable relevance for any of us interested in maintaining or bolstering our mental health.Plenty of past studies have examined the connections between exercise, moods and psychological well-being, of course. And most have concluded that physically active people tend to be happier and less prone to anxiety and severe depression than people who seldom move much.But those past studies showed only that exercise and depression are linked, not that exercise actually causes a drop in depression risk. Most were longitudinal or cross-sectional, looking at people’s exercise habits over a certain period or at a single point of time and then determining whether there might be statistical relationships between the two. In other words, active people might be less likely to become depressed than inactive people. But it’s also possible that people who aren’t prone to depression may be more likely to exercise. Those types of studies may be tantalizing, but they can’t prove anything about cause and effect.To show causation, scientists rely on randomized experiments, during which they assign people to, for instance, exercise or not and then monitor the outcomes. Researchers have been using randomized trials to look at whether exercise can treat depression after people already have developed the condition, and the results have been encouraging.But it would be almost impossible to mount a randomized trial looking at whether exercise prevents depression, since you would need to recruit a large number of people, convince some to exercise, others not, follow them for years and hope that enough develop depression to make any statistical analysis meaningful. The logistics involved would be daunting, if not impossible, and the costs prohibitive.Enter Mendelian randomization. This is a relatively new type of “data science hack” being used to analyze health risks, says Karmel Choi, a postdoctoral research fellow in psychiatric genetics at Massachusetts General Hospital and the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, who led the new study.With Mendelian randomization, scientists zero in on small snippets of genes that vary from person to person. These variants are passed out before birth and do not change afterward; they are not altered by upbringing. Thanks to large-scale genetics studies, scientists have associated many of these snippets with specific health behaviors and risks. People with certain gene variants are, for example, more likely to overeat or be physically active than people without that variant.More recently, scientists realized that these differences in people’s DNA offered, in effect, ready-made randomized trials designed by nature, since the variants occurred in mathematically random fashion.Because of that inherent randomization, scientists could crosscheck the numbers of people with or without a snippet related to a health risk or behavior, such as, say, a strong likelihood to exercise, against another health outcome, such as severe depression. And if a large percentage of people with the variant did not develop the condition, scientists felt they could conclude that the behavior related to that variant caused the change in risk for the other condition.And that result is what Dr. Choi and her colleagues found when they applied Mendelian randomization to exercise and depression. To reach that conclusion, they turned first to the UK Biobank, an enormous database of genetic and health information for almost 400,000 men and women. There they identified people who carried at least one of several gene variants believed to increase the likelihood someone will be active. Most of those people were active, and few of them had experienced depression.People without the snippets, meanwhile, tended to move less, and they also showed greater risks for depression.Delving deeper, the scientists found that, statistically, the ideal amount of exercise to prevent depression started at about 15 minutes a day of running or other strenuous exercise. Less-taxing activities like fast walking, housework and so on also afforded protection against depression, but it took about an hour a day to have an effect.Finally, to be sure that physical activity was affecting the risk for depression, and not the other way around, the scientists repeated the Mendelian style of analysis on a separate large genetic database. This time they looked for gene variants related to depression and whether people who carried those variants and a propensity for depression tended to be physically inactive. It turned out, they did not.So, the researchers concluded, physical activity in this analysis lowered the risk for depression, but depression did not affect whether people exercised.Mendelian randomization remains a mathematical exercise, of course, and in the real world, people’s lives and behaviors are shaped by more than genetics. Many factors no doubt play a role in who develops depression. The gene variants related to being active could, for instance, also and separately play some kind of antidepressant role, Dr. Choi says, adding that the intertwined genetic and behavioral linkages between exercise and mental health will require many more studies to disentangle.But already these results do provide “strong evidence” that being physically active, whatever your genetic makeup, can help protect against depression, Dr. Choi says.

Supported byRepublicans can attack his credibility, but his charges are specific, persuasive and backed by strong evidence. By Noah BookbinderMr. Bookbinder is the executive director of Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington.In day-long testimony before the House Oversight Committee on Wednesday, Michael Cohen, President Trump’s former attorney, made several devastating revelations about the president — revelations that portend a new era of accountability for the president and his close associates. It was a big day, but it is only the first of many.Mr. Cohen’s claims, if true, add to the evidence that Mr. Trump and his campaign had prior knowledge that Russia may have been interfering in the 2016 election and did nothing to stop it. Mr. Cohen testified that he was in Mr. Trump’s office when Roger Stone called and told Mr. Trump that he had just spoken with Julian Assange, the editor of WikiLeaks, who told Mr. Stone that “there would be a massive dump of emails that would damage Hillary Clinton’s campaign.”Those emails were hacked by members of Russian military intelligence and shared with WikiLeaks, and the first release occurred precisely when Mr. Stone apparently told Mr. Trump they would be. During the same period, the Trump campaign sought or accepted multiple meetings with Russia-linked individuals who claimed to have damaging information about Ms. Clinton. If there was “no collusion,” as Mr. Trump so frequently claims, it was not for lack of trying.But Mr. Cohen’s most damaging revelations related to Mr. Trump’s personal involvement in a potential criminal conspiracy to violate campaign finance laws and cover up those offenses. This possible conspiracy was the subject of a comprehensive report issued by Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, the watchdog organization that I direct. In the report, we detail how Mr. Trump could be personally liable for unlawful campaign contributions in the form of payments involving Mr. Cohen to silence women who claimed that they had affairs with Mr. Trump. These potential violations are no small matter. Rather, they appear to have been committed for the purpose of suppressing negative stories about a central issue of the campaign: Mr. Trump’s attitudes toward and alleged mistreatment of women.Mr. Cohen testified there was “no doubt” that Mr. Trump knew what these payments were for, that candidate Trump directed him to “use my own personal funds from a home equity line of credit to avoid any money being traced back to him that could negatively impact his campaign.” The decision to pay Stephanie Clifford, known as Stormy Daniels, for her silence directly followed the revelation of an “Access Hollywood” video in which Mr. Trump claimed that he sexually assaulted women. Mr. Cohen testified that Mr. Trump decided to make the payment to Ms. Clifford because Mr. Trump worried that a second scandal would negatively affect his chances of winning the election.The most compelling evidence produced by Mr. Cohen on Wednesday was not anything he said but two documents he produced: copies of two $35,000 checks he received in 2017, one signed by Allen Weisselberg, the chief financial officer of the Trump Organization, and Donald Trump Jr., the other by President Trump. With these and nine other payments over the course of that year, Mr. Cohen was “reimbursed” by the Trump Organization and President Trump for the money that Mr. Cohen spent to pay Ms. Clifford for her silence. The payments also included a $60,000 bonus for Mr. Cohen — presumably a reward for his loyalty.These checks are key. They corroborate Mr. Cohen’s testimony and provide hard evidence that Mr. Trump and senior executives at the Trump Organization knew of and committed overt acts in furtherance of a conspiracy to violate campaign finance law and cover up those violations. Additionally, the checks are evidence that Mr. Trump knowingly made a false statement when he failed to report his liability to Mr. Cohen on his personal financial disclosure form in June 2017. This potential felony was committed while Mr. Trump was president.Mr. Cohen explained he was confident that Mr. Trump would repay him the $131,000 that Mr. Cohen borrowed in his own name, quoting a conversation he had with Mr. Trump in the White House in February 2017. Mr. Cohen testified that President Trump said: “Don’t worry, Michael, your January and February reimbursement checks are coming. They were FedExed from New York and it takes a while for that to get through the White House system.”Mr. Trump’s intent to influence the election by directing these contributions would be a crucial part of any potential prosecution for felony campaign finance violations. Mr. Cohen’s testimony is substantial, powerful evidence that President Trump understood he had a liability to Mr. Cohen from the beginning of his presidency and that Mr. Trump acted with the requisite intent to be subjected to prosecution for criminal campaign finance violations.Although Mr. Cohen’s credibility repeatedly came under attack by the president’s allies on the committee, there are many reasons to trust what Mr. Cohen said today. Many of his most important claims were backed by documents, and federal prosecutors in Manhattan have access to millions of records and at least 12 recordings of Mr. Trump that were seized in searches of Mr. Cohen’s office, home and hotel room last spring. After his prosecutions, Mr. Cohen knows well the costs of lying.Our constitutional order is set up to instill within every citizen a belief that public service is, at base, a public trust. Mr. Cohen’s testimony adds to the growing evidence that President Trump violated that sacred trust by failing to report foreign interference in the 2016 election, by violating federal campaign finance law to win the 2016 election and by lying to the American people and their government to cover up those offenses after he became president. What consequences should follow as these and other facts are established is as much a question for Congress and the American people as it is for federal prosecutors.Noah Bookbinder is the executive director of Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported byGood Wednesday. Want this by email? Sign up here.This week’s trade negotiations between the U.S. and China will have to bridge a lot of gulfs between the two countries. One particularly tricky issue is that Washington wants Beijing to adopt a policy that would keep the value of China’s currency stable. More on that from Bloomberg, citing unidentified sources:• “While the precise wording remains unresolved, a pledge of yuan stability has been discussed in multiple rounds of talks in recent months and both sides have tentatively agreed it will be part of the framework of any final deal.”• “The Trump administration has been clear in its talks with Beijing that any attempt to depreciate the yuan — a strategy aimed at offsetting existing U.S. duties on Chinese imports — would be met with more or higher American tariffs.”• But currency stability may be at odds with other policies. “A U.S. request for Beijing to keep the yuan from depreciating is also potentially difficult to square with Trump and past U.S. administrations’ calls for China to adopt more market-driven reforms and complaints that Beijing manipulates its currency to gain a trade advantage.”There are other contentious issues. The FT rated the chances of success of several critical issues being discussed this week, from stronger protections of intellectual property rights (likely to happen) to the cessation of hacking (much less likely).And any deal would need enforcement measures. CNBC reports that unidentified officials from the U.S. Chamber of Commerce believe a deal would be meaningless if there aren’t mechanisms such as automatic tariff increases to punish China if it fails to keep its promises.But there appears to be less time pressure. President Trump said yesterday that the March 1 deadline for reaching an agreement “is not a magical date,” adding that “a lot of things can happen.”The British prime minister is meeting with European officials today in an attempt to reach a final compromise that would save her Brexit plan. It won’t be easy.Her goal is to revise the deal. “The British government sees May’s meeting on Wednesday with European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker as a crucial chance to get legally binding changes” to the agreement, Bloomberg reports.She has dropped some controversial ideas to help her position. The FT reports that the notion of using technology to solve issues surrounding the Irish border — a plan considered unworkable by E.U. officials — has been abandoned.But Europe still isn’t budging. “There isn’t enough movement for me to be able to expect this to be a discussion with a concrete outcome,” Mr. Juncker said yesterday, later adding “I’m losing my time with this Brexit,” according to Bloomberg.More Brexit news: Britain is unlikely to secure trade deals with Japan and South Korea before it exits the E.U. Another lawmaker has left Britain’s opposition Labour Party to join a newly formed independent group. Three Conservative Party lawmakers have also resigned to join the new group. Honda may move some of the British production of its Civic model to the U.S. — and other Japanese automakers may also leave the country.The Vermont senator finally tossed his hat into the 2020 ring yesterday, becoming the latest candidate seeking the Democratic Party nomination. Mr. Sanders quickly became one of the most formidable candidates: He raised more than $4 million from individual donors in just one day and retains a big fan base from his 2016 run.CNBC breaks down how Mr. Sanders would affect the business world should he become president:• His Medicare-for-all concept, introduced in 2017, proposes moving Americans away from private health insurance to a government-provided policy. He has also pressed to cut drug prices.• He has long criticized big banks, and has fought to break up institutions like JPMorgan Chase and Goldman Sachs. Earlier this month, he also teamed up with Senator Chuck Schumer, Democrat of New York, on legislation to limit companies’ ability to buy back stock.• He wants a higher minimum wage of $15 an hour, and has put pressure on Amazon, Walmart and other companies to follow suit.But there’s a big caveat to his 2020 odds. As Sydney Ember of the NYT notes: “Much of his populist agenda has been embraced by other Democrats, at a time when many voters are eager to elevate female and nonwhite standard bearers.”Talks between state and federal officials on vehicle emissions and fuel economy standards have broken down, Bloomberg reported, citing unnamed sources:• The Environmental Protection Agency and the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration had been meeting with California’s Air Resources Board to try and compromise on a replacement for Obama-era fuel efficiency standards.• “The breakdown in talks adds to tension between Washington and Sacramento, which has emerged as a major antagonist to the Trump administration.”• “No further discussions are scheduled over the critical auto industry rules, said the people, who asked to not be identified discussing the private talks.”• California is America’s biggest auto market, and as such has set a de facto national standard for auto emissions.The NYT took a deep dive into how President Trump has sought to clamp down on the many investigations that touch upon his presidency over the past two years. Among the incidents the newspaper uncovered:He tried to install a loyalist as head of the Michael Cohen inquiry. “He asked whether Geoffrey S. Berman, the United States attorney for the Southern District of New York and a Trump ally, could be put in charge of the widening investigation, according to several American officials with direct knowledge of the call,” the NYT reports. The acting attorney general at the time, Matthew Whitaker, demurred.He wanted a misleading public statement about Michael Flynn’s resignation. As White House officials discussed how to explain the departure of Mr. Flynn, Mr. Trump’s first national security adviser, amid an F.B.I. investigation, the president asked Sean Spicer, then the press secretary, to say he had requested Mr. Flynn’s resignation. When Mr. Spicer asked if that was true, Mr. Trump responded, “Say that I asked for his resignation.”He has sought to discredit the special counsel, Robert Mueller. With the arrival of Rudy Giuliani on his legal team, Mr. Trump “decided to combine a legal strategy with a public relations campaign in an aggressive effort to undermine the credibility of both Mr. Mueller and the Justice Department,” the NYT reports. The result: Polls last summer showed more Americans distrusted Mr. Mueller, prompting Mr. Giuliani to say, “I think we’ve done really well.”The Securities and Exchange Commission unveiled a proposal yesterday that would let all companies — not just certain small ones — confidentially discuss potential I.P.O. plans with investors before committing to the process, the WSJ reports:• “The conversations would allow companies to identify information that is important to investors and to gauge market interest before formally announcing a public offering.”• “Currently, large companies must publicly file their securities offering documents to regulators before gauging investor interest.”• “Making it easier and more appealing for companies to go public has been a central goal of S.E.C. Chairman Jay Clayton. The number of public companies has fallen by nearly 50 percent since the late 1990s.”• But this potential change isn’t as revolutionary as others the S.E.C. has proposed, Anna Pinedo of the law firm Mayer Brown told the WSJ. “It’s not going to single-handedly change if a company was going to decide to go public or not,” she said.The American retail giant is riding high after a banner earnings report yesterday, with its shares up as much as 4 percent in Tuesday trading. Here’s why:• Profits rose 69 percent to $3.69 billion.• Online sales were up 43 percent during the quarter, matching the company’s goal.• Same-store sales in the U.S. were up 4.2 percent in the quarter, above the 3.2 percent that analysts had expected.But Britain’s competition regulator dealt it bad news this morning by essentially blocking the company’s plan to merge its Asda grocery chain with J Sainsbury. The move hinders Walmart’s effort to shed the underperforming business, since it’s unclear how the American retailer can divest it.The U.S. may be on the brink of a recession, but housing is unlikely to be the cause, Conor Dougherty of the NYT writes. Here’s why:• “The housing sector accounts for as little as 3 percent of economic output during recessions and about twice that during booms. Other pieces of the economy are much bigger, but they don’t change nearly as much from boom to bust.”• “The most recent recession, from 2007 to 2009, offered one of the more exaggerated examples of housing’s guiding role in downturns. A recent report from the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis found that the construction sector accounted for a little over a third of the decline in output in the past recession.”• “How does housing look now? Mixed, but mixed in such a way that the things most important to economic growth are the most stable.”• “When economists talk about a recession in housing, they largely refer to construction, not home prices,” and “construction is bordering on moribund.”• “In other words: Housing is in recession already. It might not get better soon, but it probably won’t get worse.”President Trump will nominate Jeffrey Rosen as deputy attorney general, replacing Rod Rosenstein.Marc Short, who was President Trump’s legislative director for two years, has become Vice President Mike Pence’s chief of staff.Lindsay Walters, a White House deputy press secretary, will leave in April to join Edelman, the P.R. firm.CNN hired Sarah Isgur Flores, the Justice Department’s spokeswoman under Jeff Sessions, as a political editor in Washington.Deals• Carl Icahn publicly urged Caesars Entertainment to sell itself. (Reuters)• BlackRock and KKR are reportedly in talks to invest as much as $5 billion in Abu Dhabi’s oil pipeline network. (FT)• PepsiCo agreed to buy Muscle Milk from Hormel for an undisclosed amount, the first acquisition under its new C.E.O. (Bloomberg)• Just Inc., the maker of egg-free mayonnaise, is reportedly seeking $200 million in new funding. (Bloomberg)Politics and policy• A majority of Americans back Democratic proposals to raise taxes on the rich. (NYT)• Senator Elizabeth Warren proposed a system of universal child care, which would be paid for by her plan to increase taxes on the wealthy. (NYT)• The Trump administration wants California to pay back $2.5 billion in federal money spent on the state’s high-speed rail efforts. (NYT)• A federal ethics watchdog refused to certify financial disclosures by the commerce secretary, Wilbur Ross. (CNBC)Tech• Microsoft says hackers associated with Russian intelligence tried to breach European think tanks and nonprofit organizations in the run-up to elections in May. (NYT)• Germany is reportedly leaning toward allowing Huawei technology in its wireless networks. A British defense think tank has called the use of the Chinese company’s technology on 5G networks “irresponsible.” (WSJ, FT)• Blockchains were supposed to be unhackable. Maybe they’re not. (MIT Technology Review)• A federal judge delayed a lawsuit about a Pentagon cloud computing contract — that Amazon was expected to win — over “new information” about possible conflicts of interest in the procurement process. (WSJ)• QuadrigaCX customers are trying to hunt down funds currently locked away because they’re secured by a password known only to the company’s late C.E.O. (WSJ)Best of the rest• McKinsey &amp; Company will return $15 million in fees to resolve an investigation into allegations that it did not make required disclosures while working on bankruptcies. (NYT)• Nissan and Renault look set to clash over whether they should share the same new chairman. (FT)• The extradition to the U.S. of Roger Ng, a former Goldman Sachs banker who faces fraud charges over his involvement in the 1MDB scandal, could be delayed. (Bloomberg)• Why HSBC’s bankers should prepare for lower bonuses. (Bloomberg Opinion)• Lacking financial joy? “How to ‘Marie Kondo’ your investment portfolio.” (FT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.

Supported byGood Tuesday. Breaking: Karl Lagerfeld, the influential fashion designer and longtime creative director of Chanel, has died at 85. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)As McKinsey &amp; Company advised some of the biggest companies in the world, the NYT reports, it may have had a vested interest in the outcome, through a little-known in-house hedge fund that holds stakes in some of the firm’s clients.Little about the fund, the McKinsey Investment Office, is public. A large part of its approximately $12.3 billion in holdings is “concealed behind a tangle of shell companies in an island tax haven in the English Channel,” the NYT reports. As a result, “any intersections between McKinsey’s consulting work and the fund’s investments are largely hidden.”The office took a stake in Valeant, the drug maker that was advised by McKinsey and is accused of improperly raising pharmaceutical prices. It also invested in Puerto Rican bonds while the firm advised the island on how to deal with its debt.McKinsey says there’s no conflict of interest.  It insists the office is run separately from its consulting operations, and that 90 percent of its funds are run by outside managers.But it faces increasing skepticism about that from Congress and in various lawsuits. “A federal judge in Virginia last month reopened a coal-company bankruptcy case after learning that McKinsey had not disclosed, as required by law, that it was also among the company’s secured creditors, through MIO,” the NYT reports.A coalition of 16 states, including California and New York, sued the Trump administration yesterday over his plan to use emergency powers to spend billions of dollars on a border wall, Charlie Savage and Robert Pear of the NYT report:• “The clash raises questions over congressional control of spending, the scope of emergency powers granted to the president, and how far the courts are willing to go to settle such a dispute.”• “Xavier Becerra, the attorney general of California, said in an interview that the president himself had undercut his argument that there was an emergency on the border.”• “The lawsuit, California et al. v. Trump et al., says that the plaintiff states are going to court to protect their residents, natural resources and economic interests.”• “Plaintiffs will need to establish standing by showing that they are suffering some particular injury from what Mr. Trump is doing. Several of the lawsuits involve people who own land or represent communities along the Mexican border in Texas, where Mr. Trump has put the focus of his emphasis on the need for more barriers.”After a series of discussions between America and China in Beijing last week that President Trump called “very productive,” negotiators reopen their conversations in Washington this week.What’s happening: Negotiations kick off today. Then on Thursday and Friday, Vice Premier Liu He of China will meet with the U.S. trade representative, Robert Lighthizer, and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, according to Bloomberg.What to expect: The Trump administration “is racing to strike a deal that will result in long-term reforms,” according to the WSJ, which notes that such a pact would “prove that tariffs are an effective battering ram to open markets around the world.”But it’s not done yet. Despite Mr. Trump tweeting that “big progress being made on soooo many different fronts!” in these trade negotiations so far, the WSJ reports that “people briefed on the negotiations said big outstanding differences remain.”More trade news: Why Mr. Trump may want to keep car tariffs in his back pocket. HSBC says the U.S.-China trade war is why it missed its profit targets. With just over a week to go before a crucial vote, the British prime minister is facing shifting groupings in Parliament and a difficult diplomatic mission to the E.U.Britain’s parties are splitting. Seven lawmakers have left Labour, the main opposition party, and formed a new Independent Group that might push for another referendum on Brexit. While initial reactions were largely unimpressed, the Telegraph reports that their ranks could swell, and that some members of Mrs. May’s Conservative party may also join.And Mrs. May is running out of time. There are nine days left until a parliamentary vote that could seize control of the Brexit process from her. So this week, Bloomberg reports, she is mounting a last-ditch diplomatic push:• “The British prime minister is planning to meet European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker this week.”• “Foreign Secretary Jeremy Hunt will travel to Berlin, Brussels and Copenhagen, while Brexit Secretary Steve Barclay is continuing his dialogue with the E.U.’s chief negotiator, Michel Barnier.”• “Attorney General Geoffrey Cox — a key voice in the Brexit debate inside Cabinet — will set out in a speech expected on Tuesday how the most contentious part of the Brexit deal, the so-called backstop plan for the Irish border, could be changed.”But the E.U. isn’t budging yet. “We are happy to revisit anything that would clarify the situation without reopening the withdrawal agreement,” a spokesman for the European Commission, Margaritis Schinas, said.More Brexit news: The Japanese automaker Honda plans to close its plant in Swindon, England, which employs 3,500 people, though it didn’t blame Brexit. Wall Street banks are moving out of London — but not to any single European financial capital.A British parliamentary committee issued a scathing report yesterday that accuses Facebook of breaking data privacy and competition laws and calls for tighter regulations, Adam Satariano of the NYT reports:• “The parliamentary report recommends the creation of a British watchdog to oversee the technology industry, similar to the country’s approach to regulating media companies.”• “Companies like Facebook should not be allowed to behave like ‘digital gangsters’ in the online world, considering themselves to be ahead of and beyond the law,” the report argues.• Mr. Satariano also notes that the report “suggested legally requiring Facebook and other large internet platforms to remove what the government determines to be harmful content, or risk fines or other punishments.” Facebook may not be worried. The committee can’t change regulations on its own, Mr. Satariano notes, while Alex Webb of Bloomberg Opinion points out that “Britain’s divorce from the European Union could seriously impair its capacity to rein in the giants of U.S. tech.”More Facebook news: Why it’s getting serious about building its own A.I. chips. And why researchers are worried about how Facebook promotes Groups.Index funds, with low fees and broad exposure to the markets, are supposed to be one of the best ways to play the stock market. But Robert Jackson Jr., an S.E.C. commissioner, and Steven Davidoff Solomon of the University of California, Berkeley, point out problems with those funds in an NYT Op-Ed:• “The firms that devise these indexes face little regulatory scrutiny and can face significant conflicts of interest, which have the potential to harm American investors.”• “There certainly exists potential for manipulation. Index providers generally have wide leeway when choosing the individual companies that make up their indexes and how they are weighted.”• “That’s why we’re calling on the Securities and Exchange Commission to study this issue and make recommendations, if necessary, to Congress. Lawmakers must take a more active role in overseeing how index providers shape how trillions of Americans’ investment dollars are allocated.”Independent venture capital funds like Sequoia and Andreessen Horowitz may grab headlines, but corporate investment funds have quietly been investing faster than ever, according to a report by CB Insights. Here are some highlights:Corporate V.C.s broke records in 2018, putting $53 billion into 2,740 deals worldwide, a high on both measures.They tended to spend more than noncorporate V.C.s. The average corporate venture deal size was $26.3 million, compared to $21.8 million for a standard V.C. transaction.Companies are rushing to set up funds. The number of corporate V.C. funds investing for the first time reached 264 last year, up 35 percent from 2017 and over 300 percent from 2013.China is playing a big role. Two of the top five most active corporate V.C. funds last year were Baidu.ventures and Legend Capital, despite trade tensions between Washington and Beijing. (The most active was GV, Alphabet’s early-stage venture arm.)The law firm Kasowitz Benson Torres will announce as soon as today that it has hired Kevin Arquit, a leading antitrust lawyer in the U.S., from Weil, Gotshal &amp; Manges to lead its antitrust and competition team.Mr. Arquit’s background: He worked at the Federal Trade Commission from 1986 to 1992, where he eventually become the director of its bureau of competition. Then he went into private practice, working on matters like DirecTV’s sale to AT&amp;T and the defense of the poultry producer Pilgrim’s Pride in a price-fixing lawsuit.What’s ahead in antitrust: Mr. Arquit told DealBook that he thinks things are going to become more aggressive.• He sees more companies going to court against regulators like the Justice Department and the F.T.C., which he says have become more demanding.• “In some of those cases, it’s become so extreme,” he said, pointing to the Justice Department’s handling of the AT&amp;T-Time Warner deal. He added, “The only way to deal with that is to push back.”Ken Hitchner, the chairman and C.E.O. of Goldman Sachs’s Asia Pacific operations, is reportedly retiring.Rod Rosenstein is expected to leave the Justice Department next month.Apple hired Sam Jadallah, the C.E.O. of a failed smart lock start-up, reportedly to lead a smart-home initiative.Deals• Two of the biggest investors in SoftBank’s Vision Fund, Saudi Arabia and Abu Dhabi, are reportedly unhappy with how it’s being run. And credit ratings agencies are worried about SoftBank’s debt levels. (WSJ, Business Insider)• Navient, the student loan company, rejected a $3.2 billion takeover bid by Canyon Capital and Platinum Equity. (CNBC)• Tiger Global has reportedly sold its stake in Barclays, leaving the British bank without a key ally as it fends off the activist investor Edward Bramson. (FT)• How Mithril Capital, part of Peter Thiel’s Silicon Valley empire, turned into a mess. (Recode)• Might James Dolan finally sell the New York Knicks? (Daily News)Politics and policy• Barack Obama is quietly advising potential Democratic presidential contenders — but is unlikely to endorse one. (NYT)• How Senator Elizabeth Warren’s wealth tax would work. (Upshot)• Big-money Democratic donors reportedly favor Joe Biden for president in 2020. (Fox Business)• Senator Kamala Harris defended her support of the Green New Deal and Medicare for All, but said she wasn’t a democratic socialist. (NYT)Tech• A shake-up at Apple suggests services, not smartphones, are its future focus. (WSJ)• How Amazon might expand without a New York campus. And how it’s rebooting its movie division. (WSJ, NYT)• Huawei’s founder called U.S. charges against the company and his daughter “politically motivated.” Ericsson’s C.E.O. said that fears about Huawei’s hardware could slow down Europe’s 5G rollout, but British intelligence officials say the company’s equipment poses only a “manageable risk” of Chinese spying. (NYT, FT)• Australia blamed a “sophisticated state actor” for hacking its Parliament’s computer system. Meanwhile Chinese and Iranian hackers have renewed attacks on U.S. companies. (NYT)Best of the rest• U.S. companies now have to disclose operating leases on their balance sheets, potentially adding $3 trillion to corporate America’s liabilities. (CNBC)• Why Senator Marco Rubio’s plan to tax stock buybacks might be seriously flawed — and why they will be a huge topic for the 2020 elections. (National Review, Axios)• Americans are defaulting on car loans in record numbers. (Axios)• Contradictory data is confusing economists. (WSJ)• Most Americans, in every state except Vermont, would fail the U.S. citizenship exam. (Axios)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.

Supported byIt’s for the good of the country. Especially our kids.By Dan SavageMr. Savage is a nationally syndicated sex advice columnist.Dear Jeff Bezos,I know you’ve been through a lot in the past few weeks, but I have one more request: Release those pics.I say this as an Amazon stockholder, an Amazon Prime member and a fellow parent. Publish that “below the belt selfie” before The National Enquirer can leak it to TMZ. And while you’re at it, toss up a half a dozen other pics the tabloid hasn’t even seen.“If in my position I can’t stand up to this kind of extortion,” you wrote on Medium, “how many people can?” By standing up to blackmail­ — by refusing to be ashamed — you turned the tables on the bullies at The National Enquirer. And people cheered! For a billionaire! Poor Howard Schultz must have been seething.By all rights you should’ve spent last week being dragged for the news that Amazon is stealing tips from delivery drivers, as revealed in a Los Angeles Times investigation published the same day as your Medium post. Instead you were heaped with praise on Twitter — Twitter! — for standing up to David Pecker, the chairman and chief executive of American Media, who, as publisher of The National Enquirer, did more to put Donald Trump in the White House than perhaps anyone other than Vladimir Putin.Standing up to Pecker was a great start. But by self-publishing your own nude photos, you can turn the tables on the sexual and cultural hypocrisy that allows people like him to weaponize nude photos in the first place.If I know one thing, having written a sex-and-relationship advice column for the last few decades, Jeff, it’s this: We’ve all taken and sent photos like the ones you sent your girlfriend. O.K., not everyone. But many of us. And many more of us every day.After years of hearing about the dangers of youth sexting, researchers at Drexel University set out in 2015 to find how common the practice is among adults. And after interviewing 870 people, ranging in age from 18 to 82, they discovered that sexting is “more common than generally thought,” as the American Psychological Association primly observed. Fully 88 percent of adults reported swapping sext messages at least once; 82 percent had sexted with someone in the last year. Far from being a threat to our relationships, sexting correlated strongly “with greater sexual satisfaction, especially for those in a relationship.”We’re all carrying little pornography studios around with us in our pockets. And while many of us just use our words, a lot of us — young and old, gay and straight, anything and everything else — send sexy selfies too. We use our phones to flirt with established partners we hope we can trust (sometimes wrongly; vengeful exes are why we have revenge porn laws). We use them to flirt with complete strangers. And, yes, some of us misuse our phones by sending unsolicited dirty pics to people who never asked to see them.It’s only going to get worse (or better, depending on your perspective) as we’re rapidly establishing new and welcome cultural norms about hitting on people. It’s increasingly unacceptable to hit on someone at work or in a classroom or on the street. So we do it online. We swipe left or right and start swapping texts with a stranger. The conversation quickly progresses from flirty to dirty and, before we know it, we’re exchanging nudes with that stranger.We live in a world where two things are true: Nearly everyone has a few nude photographs out there somewhere (saved on a stranger’s phone; archived on a dating app you forgot you signed up for; lingering on some tech company’s servers). And yet a single solicited dirty pic has the power to end someone’s career. Let’s end this ridiculous state of affairs.Jeff, you have the power to make the world safer for your kids and mine, to say nothing of all the adults out there swapping nude photos with complete strangers or their spouses. (And to say nothing of all the other billionaires out there who, according to Bloomberg News, are now very worried about the whereabouts of the pics they’ve sent to their mistresses.) By releasing your own photos, you can normalize what is already normal and protect the professional and political futures of all the young adults who have been taking and sending nude selfies since they got their first phones.The sooner we all have a few dirty pics out there, the sooner it won’t matter whose dirty pics get out there. Until then, we are all in danger of being blackmailed.Sure, I could go first and release a few of my own. But the dirty pics a gay sex-advice columnist sent to his husband don’t have the power to change the world. The dirty pics the world’s richest man sent to his girlfriend? They do.I’ve long thought there should be an annual release-a-nude-pic day. Imagine a kind of purge where all Americans would unite by mass-releasing dirty pics, thus depriving hackers, vengeful exes, unscrupulous publishers, sex-phobic employers and former K.G.B. agents of the power to destroy peoples’ lives. If you go first, Jeff, we’ll call it Jeff Bezos Day. It’s a far better legacy than wage theft.Dan Savage (@fakedansavage) is a nationally syndicated sex advice columnist and The Stranger’s editorial director. He is the author of several books and the host of the Savage Lovecast.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported byWhat they left out of their questioning of Michael Cohen says more about the degradation of my former party than anything they said.By Peter WehnerContributing Opinion WriterMichael Cohen’s testimony before Congress on Wednesday revealed as much about the Republican Party as it did about President Trump and his former lawyer. In the aftermath of Mr. Cohen’s damning testimony, several things stand out.The first is that unlike John Dean, the former White House counsel who delivered searing testimony against President Richard Nixon in 1973, Mr. Cohen produced documents of Mr. Trump’s ethical and criminal wrongdoing. (Mr. Dean had to wait for the Watergate tapes to prove that what he was saying was true.)Mr. Cohen’s most explosive evidence included a copy of a check Mr. Trump wrote from his personal bank account, while he was president, to reimburse Mr. Cohen for hush money payments. The purpose of that hush money, of course, was to cover up Mr. Trump’s affair with a pornographic film star in order to prevent damage to his campaign.Other evidence produced by Mr. Cohen included financial statements, examples of Mr. Trump inflating and deflating his wealth to serve his interests, examples of charity fraud, efforts to intimidate Mr. Cohen and his family and even letters sent by Mr. Cohen to academic institutions threatening legal actions if Mr. Trump’s grades and SAT scores were released. (Mr. Trump hammered President Barack Obama on this front, referring to him as a “terrible student, terrible,” and mocking him for not releasing his grades.)Yet Republicans on the House Committee on Oversight and Reform, in their frantic effort to discredit Mr. Cohen, went after him while steadfastly ignoring the actual evidence he produced. They tried to impugn his character, but were unable to impugn the documents he provided. Nor did a single Republican offer a character defense of Mr. Trump. It turns out that was too much, even for them.In that sense, what Republicans didn’t say reveals the truth about what happened at the hearing on Wednesday as much as what they did say. Republicans showed no interest, for example, in pursuing fresh allegations made by Mr. Cohen that Mr. Trump knew  that WikiLeaks planned to release hacked emails from the Democratic National Committee in the summer of 2016.In a sane world, the fact that the president’s former lawyer produced evidence that the president knowingly and deceptively committed a federal crime — hush money payments that violated campaign finance laws — is something that even members of the president’s own party would find disquieting. But not today’s Republican Party.Instead, in the most transparent and ham-handed way, they saw no evil and heard no evil, unless it involved Mr. Cohen. Republicans on the committee tried to destroy the credibility of his testimony, not because they believe that his testimony is false, but because they fear it is true.By now Republicans must know, deep in their hearts, that Mr. Cohen’s portrayal of Mr. Trump as a “racist,” “a con man” and “a cheat” is spot on. So it is the truth they fear, and it is the truth — the fundamental reality of the world as it actually is — that they feel compelled to destroy. This is the central organizing principle of the Republican Party now. More than tax cuts. More than trade wars. More even than building a wall on our southern border. Republicans are dedicated to annihilating truth in order to defend Mr. Trump and they will go after anyone, from Mr. Cohen to Robert Mueller, who is a threat to him.He is their emperor, and they are his political Praetorian Guard.A second thing that stands out from Mr. Cohen’s testimony is that the Republican Party has been as corrupted by its association with Mr. Trump as Mr. Cohen was by his. As Mr. Cohen told Republican lawmakers, “I did the same thing that you’re doing now. For 10 years. I protected Mr. Trump for 10 years.” He then issued this warning to them: “The more people that follow Mr. Trump — as I did blindly — are going to suffer the same consequences that I’m suffering.” Mr. Cohen later explained the ethos of Trumpworld: “Everybody’s job at the Trump Organization is to protect Mr. Trump. Every day most of us knew we were coming and we were going to lie for him about something. That became the norm.”The ethic that became the norm at the Trump Organization —- defacing the truth and disfiguring reality in the service of Donald J. Trump — is the ethic that has become the norm of the Republican Party and the American right.This is what some of us who are conservatives and who have been lifelong Republicans have warned since Mr. Trump began his quest for the presidency — that his corruptions would eventually become theirs.It didn’t take long.The way these things happen is simple and insidious. In this case, because Mr. Trump was their party’s nominee, many Republicans felt duty bound to defend him, even though they would from time to time call him out for his worst offenses. They also held out the hope that Mr. Trump would grow in office and become more presidential.What happened is quite different: As Mr. Trump was elected and then inaugurated, Republicans became more and more reluctant to call him out and more and more vocal in defending him and attacking his critics; rather than weakening, their loyalty to him intensified. And the president, rather than becoming more responsible, has become less restrained, more volatile, more unhinged. The result is the ethical wreckage we saw on display Wednesday.Republicans should brace for even more damaging revelations. The evidence presented on Wednesday was harmful to the president, but Mr. Cohen quite likely revealed only a small fraction of what the Southern District of New York and the Mueller investigation have amassed. Mr. Cohen did suggest that federal prosecutors are investigating unspecified criminal allegations involving the president that have not been made public.When this story is finally told — when the sordid details are revealed, the dots finally connected — the Republican Party will be the political and institutional version of Mr. Cohen, who squandered his integrity in the service of a man of borderless corruption.Peter Wehner (@Peter Wehner), a senior fellow at the Ethics and Public Policy Center, served in the previous three Republican administrations and is a contributing opinion writer.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported byNicolás Maduro stole my television crew’s cameras and expelled me from the country, all because he was afraid of an interview. By Jorge RamosMr. Ramos is an anchor for the Univision network and the author of “Stranger: The Challenge of a Latino Immigrant in the Trump Era.”I was expelled from Venezuela on Tuesday after a contentious interview with Nicolás Maduro, the country’s strongman. He stood up in the middle of our conversation and his security agents confiscated our television cameras, the memory cards and our cellphones. Yes, Mr. Maduro stole the interview so nobody could watch it.We got the interview the old fashioned way: by making a phone call and requesting it. A producer from Univision — the television network where I’ve worked since 1984 — contacted the government’s communications minister, Jorge Rodríguez, and asked if Mr. Maduro wanted to do the interview. The leader said: “Come to Caracas.” And so we did, with official entry papers in hand.The interview started on Monday evening, three hours late, at the Miraflores Palace. Mr. Maduro had spoken a few minutes before with Tom Llamas of ABC News, and he seemed to be in a good mood. The humanitarian aid that the political opposition — with the help of an international coalition — had tried to get into the country over the Colombian and Brazilian borders had been largely stopped, and Mr. Maduro felt emboldened. This was supposed to be a good day.But it wasn’t. The first question I asked Mr. Maduro was whether I should call him “Presidente” or “Dictador,” as many Venezuelans do. I confronted him about human rights violations and cases of torture that have been reported by Human Rights Watch, and with the existence of political prisoners. I questioned his claim that he had won the 2013 and the 2018 presidential elections without fraud and, most important, his assurances that Venezuela was not experiencing a humanitarian crisis. That’s when I opened up my iPad.The day before I had recorded on my cellphone three young men looking for food on the back of a garbage truck in a poor neighborhood minutes away from the presidential palace. I showed those images to Mr. Maduro. Each frame contradicted his narrative of a prosperous and progressive Venezuela 20 years after the revolution. That’s when he broke.About 17 minutes into the interview, Mr. Maduro stood up, comically tried to block the images on my iPad and declared that the interview was over. “That’s what dictators do,” I told him.A few seconds after Mr. Maduro left, Mr. Rodríguez, the communications minister, told me that his government had not authorized the interview and he ordered his security agents to confiscate my team’s four cameras and other equipment and the video cards on which we had recorded the conversation.Somebody shouted to take me out of the presidential palace immediately, but instead two security agents escorted me to a little room where they ordered me to give them my cellphone and its password. They were concerned that I had recorded the audio of the interview and they didn’t want any leaks. But I refused. Soon after, my colleague María Martínez, one of the best producers in the country, was thrown into the same room. María, to the security agents’ frustration, managed to make a quick phone call to Univision News’s president, who warned the State Department and many news organizations about what was happening. The rest of our team, I later learned — five Univision employees — were taken to the press room, and then out to a government bus.In our little room, someone turned off all the lights, and a group of agents came in and forcefully took away my cellphone and my backpack. They furiously went through all my personal stuff. They patted me down from head to toe. María went through the same humiliating experience with a female officer. I asked if we were being detained. They said no — but still they didn’t let us leave the room.Finally they told María and me to join our colleagues on the bus. They said they wanted to take us to our hotel. But we refused again. At that point we were very concerned about our safety and the possibility of being taken to a detention center or an even darker place.We were taken to the street, where Mr. Rodríguez came out to complain about the interview and the way we had conducted ourselves. I told him that our job was to ask questions, and that they had stolen our interview and our equipment. By then, we later realized, the first reports about our detention were already being published. They couldn’t keep it a secret anymore. It was about 9:30 p.m., more than two hours after the end of the interview.Our driver, who had been waiting all this time on one of the side streets, suddenly appeared. At that point, the same people who had detained us wanted us to leave. Fast. And so we did. We piled into the car and went back to the hotel. Members of the government’s intelligence agency cordoned off the hotel so we couldn’t leave. A few hours later, an immigration official came to inform us that we would be expelled from the country in the morning. Around 1 a.m., a self-described “captain” — one of the men who had detained me at the presidential palace — came to my room and returned my cellphone in a plastic bag. All of its contents had been deleted. I assume they had first hacked into whatever they could. We experienced only a taste of the harassment and abuse that Venezuelan journalists have been suffering for years. We have two Venezuelans in our crew — the correspondent Francisco Urreiztieta and the cameraman Edgar Trujillo — and they would have faced terrible risks if they stayed in their own country. Luckily, we all made it safely back to Miami. But our cameras and the records of our interview remained behind. What is Mr. Maduro so afraid of? He should release the interview for the world to see. If he does not, all he has proved is that he is behaving exactly like a dictator. Jorge Ramos is an anchor for the Univision network and the author of, most recently, “Stranger: The Challenge of a Latino Immigrant in the Trump Era.”The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported byBy Motoko RichHANOI, Vietnam — It was an unlikely bromance that began last summer in Singapore. The relationship seemed ready to blossom even more this week in Vietnam — until, suddenly, the date went sour.President Trump, who prides himself on his negotiating skills, began his second summit meeting with Kim Jong-un — the North Korean dictator who is believed to have ordered the killings of both his own uncle and half brother — with ardent wooing.“I think very importantly, the relationship is, you know, just very strong,” Mr. Trump said on Thursday morning as he sat with Mr. Kim before a phalanx of cameras at the Metropole Hotel in Hanoi, the Vietnamese capital. “And when you have a good relationship, a lot of good things happen.”Mr. Kim, for his part, was equally gushing as he said that “nearly all of the world” was watching and was “probably thinking that they are seeing a scene from a fantasy movie now that they are seeing us spending wonderful time together facing each other.”As Mr. Trump spoke glowingly of North Korea’s economic potential, the two men seemed to mirror each other in body language. Both sat slightly forward in their chairs, one hand on one knee and the other leaning casually on the table between them, prompting analysts in South Korea to extrapolate closer and closer ties.“This demonstrates that the relationship between the two has developed from that of negotiating partners to collaborators,” said Kim Yo-jong, an expert in nonverbal language who was interviewed on Channel A News in Seoul (and is no relation to Mr. Kim’s sister, who shares the same name and traveled with her brother to the Vietnam meeting).But just a few hours later, both men had abruptly pulled out of a planned lunch, leaving elegant place settings in a restaurant at the Metropole untouched.There would be no deal, and what had started as a day of harmony ended with both leaders speeding off in their motorcades with nary a final handshake for the cameras.It may not have matched the theatrics of the first meeting between Mr. Trump and Mr. Kim last June in Singapore, when Mr. Kim took a nighttime walk through the city center (and posed for selfies with the Singaporean foreign minister), and Mr. Trump showed Mr. Kim a slick Hollywood-style video on an iPad, touting the promising future he says awaits the North if it gives up its nuclear arms.Still, the sudden change of tone over a matter of hours on Thursday in Hanoi provided the kind of unpredictable sparks for which both men have come to be known.There were even a few surprises before the talks broke down.The day before Mr. Trump’s meeting with Mr. Kim, the White House press corps was kicked out of the hotel where Mr. Kim was staying, indicating that the North Korean leader and his authoritarian hosts in Vietnam might try to curtail press freedom. Tensions with journalists were further stoked on Wednesday night when four reporters were barred from covering the kickoff dinner — not by Mr. Kim, but by the White House.The next day, Mr. Kim may have made history by answering not just one but three questions from foreign reporters.In the morning photo session on Thursday, Mr. Kim stunned the room and became an immediate sensation on social media when he answered a question from David Nakamura, a Washington Post reporter, about whether he was confident he would get a deal.“It’s too early to say,” Mr. Kim said through his interpreter. “I would not say I’m pessimistic.”During a later meeting between the leaders and their teams of negotiators, Mr. Kim answered two more questions from the news media. Asked about his willingness to denuclearize his country, Mr. Kim said, “If I’m not willing to do that, I wouldn’t be here right now.” Mr. Trump replied, “That might be the best answer you’ve ever heard.”But by lunchtime, when the leaders were scheduled to continue their discussions as they ate, it appeared that analysts might have read too much into the apparent conviviality.Mr. Trump also faced a major distraction in the form of congressional testimony from Michael Cohen, his former lawyer and fixer, who accused the president of a pattern of lies and criminality spanning years. Earlier this week, Mr. Trump said on Twitter that Mr. Cohen was “lying in order to reduce his prison time,” and then he retweeted himself on Thursday not long before his meeting with Mr. Kim.There was some speculation that Mr. Cohen’s testimony had so irked Mr. Trump that he had cut short the meeting. Certainly, when word arrived from the traveling press pool that the lunch had been delayed and then canceled, along with a planned signing ceremony for a joint declaration, reporters scrambled to figure out what had happened and why.In the international media center less than a mile from the Metropole, reporters frantically refreshed their Twitter feeds, seeking updates from their colleagues in the travel pool or looking for statements from the White House. Word came that Mr. Trump would hold a news conference almost two hours earlier than scheduled.Outside the Metropole, Mr. Trump’s motorcade pulled out. Black-suited North Korean security officers dashed into a line of black Toyota hatchbacks, a few of them jumping through the doors of cars that had already begun to roll.At the media center, slight mayhem broke out when reporters from a Japanese news network started to interview a reporter from Voice of America. Other reporters, thinking she was a White House spokeswoman, rushed over. Suddenly, a scrum of microphones and cellphones was thrust at the reporter.One of the reporters who had joined the crowd realized it was a case of hacks interviewing each other. “You’re just journalists?” she said in disgust. “Oh, my God, why did I run over here?” She stormed away.At Mr. Trump’s news conference on Thursday, he was clearly not as ebullient as he had been in Singapore, where he had answered questions for more than an hour and made an impromptu policy announcement when he said he would be suspending military exercises between United States and South Korean forces.But he remained emphatic that he and Mr. Kim were still on good terms. “I think the relationship is very warm,” he said. “And when we walked away, it was a very friendly walk.”There was no immediate way to confirm the statement.Su-Hyun Lee contributed reporting from Seoul, South Korea.

Supported byCalifornia TodayBy Jill CowanGood morning.(Here’s the sign-up, if you don’t already get California Today by email.)Do you feel like you can afford to live in California?If you said no to that question, you’d be in good company: 43 percent of Californians would agree with you.The one part of the state where they’d be less likely to feel the crunch? The Bay Area — land of some of the nation’s most crushing housing and child care costs — where 65 percent of registered voters said, yes, they feel as if they can afford to live here.Still, 77 percent of Californians acknowledged the state’s housing crisis, including 85 percent in the Bay.And that’s compared with 52 percent of L.A. County residents who said they felt as if they could afford to live in the Golden State and 53 percent of Inland and Valley residents.Those are a few findings from Quinnipiac University’s first California-specific poll.Quinnipiac is known for its national election polling, as well as a source for public opinions in states like New York, New Jersey, Florida and Ohio. But until now, not California.Doug Schwartz, director of the Quinnipiac University Poll, said that’s mostly a function of momentum.Tim Malloy, assistant director of the poll, said the university had always had its eye on the West.“For a long time, we’ve been talking about it,” he said. “The last several months, there’s been a confluence of issues — the wall, immigration, global warming, climate, housing home prices and potential presidential candidates — it’s got everything.”California, Mr. Malloy said, is a microcosm of the country.Still, he said, he was a little surprised by some of the results.For instance, one number that got a bit of attention: While 58 percent of Californians said they’d be excited if Senator Kamala Harris became the Democratic nominee for president, only 40 percent said she’d make a good president.“She’s very, very well-known,” Mr. Malloy said. And if people would be excited for her candidacy, “why the heck wouldn’t she make a good president?”Mr. Schwartz said one more statistic that struck him as curious was that 43 percent of voters said forest mismanagement was more responsible for the severity of wildfires than climate change. The same percentage said the opposite — that they thought climate change was more responsible than forest mismanagement.Check out the rest of the results here.(A note: We often link to content on sites that limit access for nonsubscribers. We appreciate your reading Times stories, but we’d also encourage you to support local news if you can.)• Pacific Gas and Electric submitted its newly required plan to reduce wildfires. The troubled utility said it would cut power during dry and windy weather more often, trim more trees along power lines and spend as much as $2.3 billion on the efforts. [The New York Times]• And in other woes for PG&amp;E, the gas pipeline that shot a massive flame into a San Francisco street on Wednesday was one of numerous lines in the city that can’t be cut off automatically. One expert said it shouldn’t have taken as long as it did to get the fire under control. [The San Francisco Chronicle]• The Richmond-San Rafael Bridge reopened after closing abruptly because large chunks of concrete were tumbling off it and onto passing vehicles. [The Mercury News]• Liberal Democrats made their formal call for a “Green New Deal,” which the Republican National Committee derided as a “socialist wish list.” But Democratic presidential hopefuls like Senator Kamala Harris leaned into the idea. [The New York Times]• In order to cover its promised pay for some Amazon delivery contractors, the company dipped into their tips. [The Los Angeles Times]• Residents of Fresno’s poorest neighborhood thought high-speed rail could transform it. But now they’re worried it could be another false promise. [The Center for Public Integrity]• Who is Gavin de Becker, Jeff Bezos’ longtime security chief? He’s the product of a childhood full of the violence and fear he’s now paid to shield others from. And he grew up among the Hollywood elite. [The New York Times]• Frank Robinson, a Hall of Fame slugger and the first black manager in major league baseball, died at home in Los Angeles on Thursday. He grew up in Oakland and managed the San Francisco Giants. [The New York Times]• Read the strange, sad tale of a young woman who moved from Indiana to California to work in cannabis and followed two hackers to her death. [Buzzfeed]• It’s been raining and snowing in California. That means it’s boom time for the state’s mountain resorts. [The New York Times]• Watch this Anatomy of a Scene from “Velvet Buzzsaw,” which is supposed to be a sendup of the L.A. art world. [The New York Times]Somehow it’s almost Valentine’s Day already.The gift and dining guides are trickling out. So are the sweet stories, like this one, about a Bakersfield couple who will get married next month at age 90 and 89.The two were high school sweethearts in 1944 before they went their separate ways, lived separate lives, raised separate sets of children. But then, as The Bakersfield Californian reported, not long after Earle Murie lost his wife of 67 years, Laurette Ellis called to wish him a happy birthday.And just like that, their new life together started.If you’re looking for love stories that involve more 21st century concerns, The Times, of course, has its tiny love stories. They come from all over. But I’d love to read about uniquely California love. So if you have a tiny California love story — 100 words or less — send it to CAtoday@nytimes.com.California Today goes live at 6:30 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Jill Cowan grew up in Orange County, went to school at U.C. Berkeley and has reported all over the state, including the Bay Area, Bakersfield and Los Angeles — but she always wants to see more. Follow along here or on Twitter, @jillcowan.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.

Supported byWhite House MemoBy Annie KarniWASHINGTON — President Trump will have just wrapped up the first day of his summit meeting in Vietnam with Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader, when back home in Washington, Michael D. Cohen, his former lawyer and fixer, takes the stand on Wednesday morning to testify publicly against him before the House Oversight Committee.Two nearly simultaneous events and two very different story lines for Mr. Trump. One involves a leader he has assiduously courted and hopes will provide him with, at the minimum, an example of his ability to make peace with the United States’ adversaries. The other involves a former associate who has already detailed the president’s secrets to the special counsel and now will share some of them with the American public.The clashing narratives follow what has become a frustrating pattern for Mr. Trump in which some of his biggest moments on the international stage have been overtaken by events at home. Foreign trips mark critical moments for every president. But for a president in search of evidence to support his claims that he has strengthened the United States’ position in the world, they have not always been the successes he had hoped to portray.From his first foreign trip as president — to Saudi Arabia in 2017 — to his meeting last summer with Queen Elizabeth II, Mr. Trump has often found himself competing for coverage with some new and dramatic turn in the scandals that have consumed his administration.On that inaugural trip, Mr. Trump left the White House for Riyadh, the Saudi capital, just as The New York Times reported that he had admitted to Russians in an Oval Office meeting that firing the F.B.I. director, James B. Comey, took “great pressure” off him. The Washington Post then reported that a sitting White House official was under federal investigation for possibly colluding with the Russians during the 2016 presidential campaign.Mr. Trump was preparing to depart on a marathon five-country tour of Asia in November 2017 when the special counsel’s office made its first bombshell indictments, bringing charges against his former campaign manager, Paul Manafort, as well as two other campaign associates, Rick Gates and George Papadopoulos. The president was in Davos, Switzerland, when The Times reported that Mr. Trump had ordered the firing of the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, who is overseeing the Russia investigation, and had backed down only when the White House counsel threatened to resign.And an honor guard was giving Mr. Trump a royal salute at Windsor Castle in July when his deputy attorney general, Rod J. Rosenstein, announced the indictment of 12 Russian intelligence officers in the hacking of the Democratic National Committee and Hillary Clinton’s 2016 presidential campaign.For Mr. Trump, who is particularly concerned with winning news cycles, the summit meeting with Mr. Kim in Hanoi, Vietnam’s capital, that begins Wednesday is a major opportunity to change the subject from his losing fight with Democrats over funding for a wall along the southwestern border.But at 10 p.m. that day in Hanoi, the counternarrative will begin when Mr. Cohen starts his testimony before the House Oversight Committee about Mr. Trump’s alleged payoffs, financial disclosures, compliance with campaign finance laws and business matters. He is also expected to deliver raw, personal stories of his 10 years serving Mr. Trump.And this time, coverage of Mr. Trump’s trip abroad is not threatened to be subsumed by news reports, or by the findings of his own Justice Department, but by a Democrat-dominated congressional committee.White House officials said House Democrats were deliberately trying to step on the summit meeting. Rudolph W. Giuliani, Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, said the overlapping events were no coincidence. “After all, they are politicians,” he said in a text.A spokesman for the committee chairman, Representative Elijah E. Cummings of Maryland, did not respond to multiple requests for comment about whether the scheduling of the hearing on the same day as the meeting was done intentionally.But Lanny J. Davis, a lawyer for Mr. Cohen, said the timing was unintentional. “These dates were developed over a long period of time, with lots of stops and starts and delays,” Mr. Davis said. “We had to worry about being attacked with Trump tweets. Trump set up the first reason for the delay.”The overlapping events, he added, were “the inevitable result of having chaos every day.”And, in fact, Mr. Cohen’s testimony was rescheduled, after he postponed it twice.White House officials played down any anxiety that Mr. Cohen’s testimony would steal the spotlight from Mr. Trump. One senior administration official described Mr. Cohen as a “convicted criminal who has already lied to Congress” and said that the clear headliner of the day would be a president who is “trying to undo 70 years of war and neglect.”There is also the question of which news outlets will interrupt coverage of the meeting between the president and Mr. Kim for Mr. Cohen’s hearing. Fox News has already touted an exclusive post-meeting interview with Mr. Trump, conducted by Sean Hannity, the cable news host, as part of its extensive coverage of the event.Other current and former White House officials said they saw a silver lining: The president tends to spend less time on Twitter when he is busy overseas, where he is less consumed by any developments pertaining to the open investigations. Mr. Cohen’s testimony, which might have had Mr. Trump glued to his television in the dining room off the Oval Office if he were home, they said, could pack less punch if he is busy with Mr. Kim.Still, even people who are not natural supporters of Mr. Trump said the timing of Mr. Cohen’s hearing was unfortunate, whether it was avoidable or not. “It’s not a desirable thing that the president goes abroad and, while he’s having an international summit, his former lawyer is testifying about the alleged crimes he’s committed,” said Benjamin Wittes, the editor in chief of Lawfare, and a friend of Mr. Comey’s.The pattern, some critics of the president said, is simply a product of the number of investigations involving Mr. Trump, which have overshadowed his work both at home and abroad.“When your campaign, your transition, your charity, your business, your White House and your inaugural committee are all under investigation, there are going to be a lot of new developments,” said Matthew Miller, a former spokesman for the Obama Justice Department.For now, the White House is trying to shrug off the overlap.“I don’t think the president has any concerns whatsoever about Michael Cohen,” Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said last week on “Fox &amp; Friends.” “I think Michael Cohen may need to be concerned for himself, but that’s certainly something that’s not influencing or bothering us in this building.”

Supported byTim Cook keeps taking on Facebook, but Facebook’s stock keeps rising. By Kara SwisherMs. Swisher covers technology and is a contributing opinion writer. The ongoing tension between Apple and Facebook flared again this week, causing a dramatic hubbub in the tech industry. I’d argue it was a nothing burger. Not because it was unimportant, but because it’s clear that despite persistent evidence that our privacy is being violated, it might not matter. Basically, the two digital giants engaged in an esoteric tussle over how Facebook did an end run around Apple’s very strict rules about data use on its app platform in order to suck up more user data. Through an app intended for internal use, Facebook paid people — including teenagers — $20 a month to track everything they did online. Since Facebook had been warned about this kind of thing before, Apple — noting the move was in “clear breach of their agreement” — retaliated by cutting off the oxygen, and Facebook’s access to its own internal apps. It did not, as many suggested it should, shut off other popular consumer-facing offerings on the iPhone like Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp.Shall I explain more? No, I shall not, because the details hardly matter, except to note that what Facebook did is the equivalent of sneaking out of the house after the curfew your parents imposed after you last sneaked out of the house. To put it more plainly, it was obnoxious and squirrelly and just the kind of behavior that we all now assume the company is capable of. Which is to say, we don’t trust Facebook in any way when it comes to using and protecting the data we entrust to it.[Kara Swisher will answer your questions about this column on Twitter on Friday at 2 p.m. Eastern: @KaraSwisher.]And neither does Apple and its chief executive, Tim Cook. Mark Zuckerberg, the Facebook founder and chief executive, is clearly getting on Mr. Cook’s last nerve. I feel a little responsible for the acrimony, since it was in an MSNBC interview I did with Mr. Cook in March that the older, more seasoned executive decided to go full-bore on the young, leadership-challenged one.At the time, Facebook was in the news for the rampant abuse of its platform by Russia, so I asked Mr. Cook about data abuse. He started by comparing Apple’s business model to one like Facebook’s: “The truth is, we could make a ton of money if we monetized our customer — if our customer was our product. We’ve elected not to do that.”Then I asked: What would he do to fix it if he were Mr. Zuckerberg? His devastating answer: “What would I do? I wouldn’t be in this situation.”Ouch. In Silicon Valley terms that response was akin to Cardi B beefing on Nicki Minaj, except quantumly more geeky. There was a sharp intake of breath from everyone in tech, and a very pissy response from Mr. Zuckerberg, in which he called Mr. Cook “extremely glib.”He then asked his employees to use Google’s Android phones instead of iPhones “because it is the most popular operating system in the world.”Uh huh. Except that seems not to have worked and clearly many of his employees ignored the directive. There were reports that iPhone users at Facebook were left stranded this week when Apple cut off the company’s ability to use other beta and internal apps on the iOS platform. Along with unreleased versions of apps, that also meant employees could not access things like bus schedules and cafeteria lunch menus. Apple has since reinstated use of those internal apps. Not knowing which fresh kombucha was being served at 1 Hacker Way obviously hit Facebook techies where they lived, which was the point. It’s interesting to compare Apple’s response this time to a comparable episode with Google. TechCrunch (which broke the original story on the rogue Facebook app) noted that Google had done a similar thing with a research app. Apple did cut off its internal apps, but there was no public hand-slapping, and the tone between the companies has been cordial. The difference: Mr. Cook has been irritated with Mr. Zuckerberg for a while, as tech companies like Apple have been lumped into the messes that Facebook has created, problems that have attracted the ire of regulators and the media.It is not just Mr. Cook. A top executive at another tech giant termed it the “Facebook contagion,” and added, “they are infecting all of tech with their sloppy mistakes.”But what’s most remarkable is how much Mr. Cook has become the critic-in-chief for Facebook. It gets harder to play that role, however, when Apple makes mistakes, too. This week we learned that its FaceTime service had a significant bug that allowed people to spy on other people’s phones. Attorney General Letitia James of New York and Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota both criticized Apple for being slow to reveal the issue to the public.It was too slow. But in the end Apple was properly apologetic and did shut down the glitch. Still, it’s not a good look to have a major privacy snafu right after touting your commitment to privacy.And it comes at a dicey time for Apple, which recently warned it was seeing weaker financial results and is under pressure to introduce even more new and innovative products. There is no rest for Mr. Cook, and many observers, including me, have posited that the next years for Apple will be challenging. Still, it’s interesting that Mr. Cook climbed out on this limb anyway. Some insiders at Facebook are alleging he did so to get the heat off Apple’s troubles. But that’s a canard. Mr. Cook has long been vocal about distinguishing Apple from Facebook when it comes to user data and the importance of protecting privacy.The bigger problem is that such an important issue might turn out to be the real nothing burger. Facebook turned in another stellar quarter this week, which made its stock rise strongly. So despite all the sketchy things the company is accused of doing by Apple and many others, most investors and analysts don’t seem to care, and they will never care, as long as its digital advertising business — goosed by its astonishing and nakedly ambitious ability to suck in data, data and more data from all of us — continues to impress. Simply put, Wall Street does not care. Or to use an old bromide: Facebook is so poor, all it has is money.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram, and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. Kara Swisher, editor at large for the technology news website Recode and producer of the Recode Decode podcast and Code Conference, is a contributing opinion writer.  @karaswisher • Facebook 

Supported byBy Annie Karni, Katie Rogers and Michael TackettWASHINGTON — President Trump wanted to talk. He initially invited A. G. Sulzberger, the publisher of The New York Times, to an off-the-record dinner. Mr. Sulzberger countered with a request for an on-the-record interview that included Times reporters. The White House accepted.[Read the full article from our exclusive Oval Office interview.]Mr. Trump held forth from the Oval Office about the investigation into what he called his “unimportant” business dealings in Russia before he became president; his contact with Roger J. Stone Jr., an informal adviser of many years; his relationship with his top intelligence officials; a handicapping of the 2020 presidential race; and a personal assessment of his first two years in office.Here are five takeaways from the interview.On all matters related to the special counsel’s investigation and questions about his business ties to Russia, Mr. Trump calmly took a nothing-to-see-here approach.He played down his interest in building a skyscraper in Moscow, calling it a “very unimportant deal.”He said he never directed Mr. Stone, who was indicted last week, to correspond with WikiLeaks to gain information about hacked Democratic emails.Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general, has assured Mr. Trump’s lawyers that he is not a target of the inquiry by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, the president said. And he added that he was not engaging in witness tampering when he suggested that the father-in-law of Michael Cohen, his former lawyer and fixer, should be investigated.“I had no money invested,” Mr. Trump said of the Moscow project. His lawyer Rudolph W. Giuliani stated at one point that Mr. Trump was involved in discussions to build a Moscow tower throughout the 2016 presidential campaign. But Mr. Trump said that Mr. Giuliani “was incorrect” and “was wrong.”Mr. Trump said at first that he “didn’t see” Mr. Stone’s indictment, which indicated that a senior campaign official was directed by an unnamed person to contact Mr. Stone about additional WikiLeaks releases that might prove damaging to the Clinton campaign.But he later appeared to contradict himself, noting, “I know what was in the indictment — if you read it there was no collusion with Russia.”On Tuesday, top United States intelligence officials released their annual “Worldwide Threat Assessment,” which concluded that North Korea was unlikely to give up its nuclear stockpiles, Iran did not appear to be taking steps to make a nuclear bomb and the Islamic State would continue its aggression in Syria. All those assertions directly contradicted Mr. Trump’s foreign policy positions.The president was initially displeased. “Perhaps Intelligence should go back to school!” Mr. Trump tweeted Wednesday. He also said then that he was not happy with either the director of national intelligence, Dan Coats, or the C.I.A. director, Gina Haspel.By Thursday, all was forgiven, the president said. He said the intelligence officials assured him, “Sir, our testimony was totally mischaracterized.” The president said that after he read the testimony, he felt they were on the same page.He also presented reporters a printout of a tweet sent during the interview — “sometimes I dictate tweets,” he said — that featured a photo of his earlier meeting with intelligence chiefs.Mr. Trump, who struck a deal with Democrats last Friday to open the government temporarily, seemed to dismiss the idea that an agreement could be reached over his demand for funding for a wall along the southwestern border. The president said he would wait to act until the continuing resolution to fund the government expires on Feb. 15, but then called the wait “a waste of time.”He again hinted that he had already made his mind up and that he was satisfied with his characterization of a crisis at the border. When asked if he would declare a national emergency to try to secure his demand for funding, Mr. Trump said, “I’ve set the table. I’ve set the stage for doing what I’m going to do.”The president, who has recently tempered his criticism of Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s negotiation skills, used stronger language on Thursday, saying that he had gotten along with her in the past, but no longer.“I think she’s doing a tremendous disservice to the country,” Mr. Trump said.The president has been keeping an eye on potential Democratic challengers in 2020 — “they’ve really drifted far left” — taking particular note, approvingly, of Senator Kamala Harris of California. Ms. Harris has been credited with a strong rollout that included numerous news appearances nationwide and a town hall-style meeting in Iowa broadcast on CNN.Of the potential opponents who have announced their bids so far, Mr. Trump said “I would say the best opening so far would be Kamala Harris,” adding, “Better crowd. Better enthusiasm.”He then said of Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, resurrecting a derisive nickname for her, “I do think Elizabeth Warren has been hurt very badly with the Pocahontas trap.” He added, “I may be wrong about that.”The president also expressed confidence that he would not have a serious rival in the Republican primary race.“I don’t see it,” Mr. Trump said, before adding, “I guess anything is possible.”Mr. Trump said that he was planning to run for re-election, and that there would be no point at which he had decided he had accomplished enough.“It’s a very big job,” he said, “and there’s a lot to do.” But Mr. Trump also suggested that the presidency had been “more of a burden on me than other presidents,” and accused his predecessors of artificial achievements that did not amount to the work he had done to produce a healthy economy.“I don’t know if I should love doing it, but I love doing it,” he said.He said that he would be focusing on national security “very much” should he win a second term. Later, he again reminisced about his life as a businessman and mused about the money he has lost since assuming the presidency.“This is, this is one of the great losers of all time,” Mr. Trump said. “You know, fortunately, I don’t need money. This is one of the great losers of all time.”

Supported byLet us help you start your day. By Penn Bullock(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning. Prime Minister Theresa May promises Parliament the chance to delay Brexit, the U.S.-North Korea summit meeting begins and Michael Cohen prepares to dish dirt in Congress. Here’s the latest: Britain’s prime minister said on Tuesday that Parliament should have a chance to delay the country’s exit from the E.U. if lawmakers reject her withdrawal plan. She was bowing to demands by pro-European rebels in her Conservative government that she reduce the risk of a chaotic “no deal” departure on March 29. Next steps: Mrs. May plans to bring a revised deal to Parliament by March 12. If lawmakers reject it, they will then be able to vote on whether to delay an exit or opt for a “no deal” departure, which many oppose. A postponement would require the consent of all 27 other E.U. governments and would probably not extend beyond early July. Go deeper: Ever wonder what happens in talks between British and E.U. officials over revising the deal? According to a confidential document obtained by The Times: “nothing.” President Trump is in Hanoi, the Vietnamese capital, to meet with North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, for the second time in eight months. The two leaders, who in 2017 exchanged fiery threats, will have dinner together tonight and formal meetings tomorrow. Here’s our live briefing. Mr. Trump might have a lot else on his mind. Michael Cohen, his former personal lawyer and fixer, will testify today before lawmakers that Mr. Trump is a “con man” and a “cheat” who knew an adviser was communicating with WikiLeaks about the release of Democratic emails that were hacked by Russia. Read Mr. Cohen’s opening statement. What North Korea wants: Pyongyang has brought a long list of demands, including an elimination of sanctions, a formal end to the Korean War and, possibly, the withdrawal of American troops from South Korea. What the U.S. wants: Mr. Trump has lowered expectations to an extent that even some of his aides see a significant retreat at a critical moment. On denuclearization, he said he didn’t want to “rush anybody.” He may ultimately be willing to settle for limits on the size and reach of the North’s arsenal. Go deeper: Secretary of State Mike Pompeo has his work cut out for him as the translator of Mr. Trump’s foreign policy decisions. Here’s an in-depth profile of Mr. Pompeo, a former C.I.A. director.Pakistan’s military said it had shot down two Indian aircraft that had entered Pakistani airspace and captured one of the pilots, in an escalation of hostilities just a day after Indian fighter jets crossed the disputed Kashmir region to launch an airstrike within Pakistan.The claim was not confirmed by the Indian government.Earlier developments: Prime Minister Imran Khan of Pakistan promised on Tuesday to retaliate for the incursion hours earlier by Indian jets, which crossed the de facto border between the Indian- and Pakistani-controlled areas of Kashmir to strike Pakistan for the first time since 1971. Analysts warn that the crisis between the two nuclear-armed countries could erupt into something more serious unless both sides show restraint.To the consternation of many at home, Russia appears to reprising Cold War threats to rain nuclear annihilation on the U.S. if attacked. In a prime-time TV broadcast, Dmitri Kiselyev, the Kremlin’s top propagandist, detailed how Russia would wipe out targets including two U.S. military bases that closed many years ago. He also laid out a plan to station Russian nuclear submarines off the coast of the U.S. if it were to put nuclear missiles in Poland.And to mark Defenders of the Fatherland Day on Saturday, a choir at a St. Petersburg cathedral performed a song about a nuclear attack on the U.S.Context: The assertiveness seems to be related to President Trump’s decision to withdraw the U.S. from the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty, which banned the placement of such weapons in Europe. President Vladimir Putin of Russia promised in his state-of-the-nation address this month to answer with the deployment of new nuclear weaponry. Another angle: A Cold War atmosphere also prevailed at the U.N. Security Council, where the U.S. and Russia squared off over Venezuela.  Border wall dispute: With more than a dozen Republicans joining Democrats, the House voted to block Mr. Trump’s declaration of a national emergency to secure funding for a border wall. The measure is one supporter short of possible passage in the Senate. Britain: Under new rules, all adults will be considered potential organ donors by 2020 unless they opt out. Nigeria: In an election marred by pockets of violence, Muhammadu Buhari won a second term as president, defeating a corruption-stained competitor. Climate: Britons this week experienced the highest temperatures ever recorded in the country in winter. Kew Gardens, London, reached 21.2 degrees Celsius (70.16 Fahrenheit), the hottest February day since records began in 1910. Ireland: The head of an 800-year-old mummified Crusader was stolen from a historic Dublin church, and a crypt was damaged. The church, St. Michan’s, is working with the police to recover the head “so we can let him rest in peace,” its vicar said.Germany: Daniel Barenboim, one of the world’s leading conductors, has been accused by current and former members of the Berlin State Opera of bullying and humiliation, adding to a larger debate about the highhanded conduct that can be typical of maestros. He contends that there is a cynical campaign to oust him. Sex education: English schools, particularly those that receive government funds, will significantly broaden sex education to cover topics including gay relationships and transgender people. Harvest season: In northern Germany at this time of year, kale is king. (Just don’t forget the schmaltz and bacon.)Fashion: At Paris Fashion Week, our chief fashion critic, Vanessa Friedman, wrote about young designers generating buzz, including Marine Serre, who imagined a post-climate-change apocalyptic wardrobe for her show.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Make chicken piccata, and rejoice over its butter-rich pan sauce.Choosing a perfume or cologne is tough, but we have experts to help you find a fragrance that you’ll love.Why we yawn remains a mystery, but one theory is that it cools off our brains.This week, Vice President Mike Pence accused Uruguay of being a “bystander” in Venezuela’s crisis, calling on its center-left government to do more to end President Nicolás Maduro’s devastating reign.A reader, Annelise Gasser of Quebec, asked how a small South American nation had acquired such diplomatic significance.Uruguay, which has clean democratic credentials and decent relations with Mr. Maduro, maintains credibility with both Maduro supporters and opponents that makes it a natural intermediary.Uruguay’s soft approach stems from a live-and-let-live attitude, developed over two centuries of coexistence with much bigger neighbors. The country has long led the region in progressive politics, including legalizing marijuana and gay marriage.While hard-liners in Miami threaten military intervention to oust Mr. Maduro, on the laid-back streets of Montevideo, Uruguay’s capital, residents resolve problems over a slow barbecue and the ever-present thermos of caffeine-rich mate (pronounced MAH-tay).Anatoly Kurmanaev, our Caracas-based reporter, wrote today’s Back Story. Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.

Supported byBy Chris Buckley and Edward WongBEIJING — Kai Li, an American businessman born in China, had stepped off a plane in Shanghai, preparing to visit his mother’s grave. Instead, Chinese state security officers grabbed him and accused him of spying, and a court later sentenced him to 10 years in prison after a short, secretive trial.Now, two and a half years after Mr. Li was detained, his family in New York has broken its silence, saying that the espionage conviction against Mr. Li, an exporter of aircraft parts, was groundless and driven by political motives.In recent years, relations between the United States and China have been tested by trade and technology disputes. The United States has accused China of hacking companies and inducing or bribing scientists to hand over commercial secrets. China has also stepped up warnings against foreign spies and publicized convictions of foreigners on espionage charges.Harrison Li, Mr. Li’s son, said the Chinese authorities had charged his father with providing state secrets to the F.B.I. He says he is sure that his father was not a spy, and that his conviction showed the risks that American visitors to China face as tensions with the United States have festered.“I certainly hope that the U.S. government will view my father’s case as a serious indication of China’s willingness to use the coercive and inflammatory tactics of detaining foreign citizens,” Harrison Li said by telephone. “It’s very clear to us that the nature of the case is political, and tied to whatever geopolitical conflicts exist between the two countries.”At first, Mr. Li’s family kept quiet about his case while State Department officials lobbied Chinese officials to release him, the son said. But Mr. Li, 56, went on trial in Shanghai in August 2017 and was convicted and sentenced in July of last year. Harrison Li said that he and his mother decided to speak out after Mr. Li’s appeal was rejected last month.The F.B.I. declined to comment on the case. The Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not respond on Friday to faxed questions about the case, nor did the police, the prosecutors’ office or the foreign affairs office in Shanghai.The case raises broader questions about how foreign businesspeople dealing with sensitive sectors in China — in this case, the aerospace sector — are vulnerable to espionage charges.Before Mr. Li’s detention, his life centered on his home and businesses on Long Island, where he owned two gas stations. He went to the United States in 1989 after the Tiananmen Square massacre and gained citizenship there in the 1990s, said his son, who graduated from Harvard last year and works in finance. Mr. Li’s wife also immigrated from China.Political leaders from New York appealed to President Trump for assistance in seeking the release of Kai Li, an American held by China.Mr. Li visited China two or three times a year, and he ran a company that exported aircraft parts to China and elsewhere in Asia on behalf of a subsidiary of Boeing, Harrison Li said. The son said he did not know the subsidiary’s name, and Boeing had no immediate comment on Friday.The aerospace sector looms large in the competition between China and the United States, and both governments guard against the theft of secrets. Last year, the United States orchestrated a complex international sting operation to arrest a Chinese intelligence official who was charged with trying to get proprietary information from a GE Aviation employee.“I’m sure that his business would have made him an easier target for the Chinese government,” Harrison Li said of his father. He said his father wrote in a letter, while in detention, that the paperwork for the exports entailed making filings with the United States government that may have drawn suspicion from Chinese investigators.Mr. Li’s case has added to the tensions between Beijing and Washington.Relations have been strained since last year, when President Trump hit goods made in China with tariffs intended to force Beijing into dismantling what he and other critics say are unfair trade and investment barriers.China was also incensed by the arrest in Canada late last year of Meng Wanzhou, the chief financial officer of Huawei, who American prosecutors say helped Huawei slip past American sanctions on Iran by fraudulently misleading a bank. Two Canadian men were detained in China in December in what appeared to be payback for Ms. Meng’s arrest.“The international security competition between the United States and China is beginning to affect the business world in a very significant way,” said Evan S. Medeiros, a professor at Georgetown University who was senior Asia director in the Obama White House.In targeting American businesses, China has a “much bigger tool kit to play with” because of the vast powers of its state security apparatus and lack of real legal oversight, Mr. Medeiros said, without commenting specifically on Mr. Li’s case.Members of the Trump administration and of Congress have taken up Mr. Li’s case, including Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and other State Department officials, Harrison Li said.“We regularly raise Mr. Li’s case with Chinese officials,” the State Department said a written statement. It said consular staff had sent multiple requests to the Chinese authorities seeking Mr. Li’s release on humanitarian grounds, but received no response.This week, Senator Chuck Schumer, Democrat of New York, and four members of the House of Representatives sent a letter to Mr. Trump urging him, for a second time, to push the Chinese government to release Mr. Li. The letter, a copy of which was obtained by The New York Times, said, “It is incumbent upon our government to fulfill its responsibility to a citizen in distress and be his vociferous advocate.”Mr. Schumer told The Times on Thursday, “The Trump administration must use all tools available to prioritize bringing Mr. Li back home.”On Friday afternoon, Garrett Marquis, a spokesman for the White House National Security Council, said the United States had appealed to Beijing “multiple times over the past two years for Li Kai’s immediate release.”In China, President Xi Jinping has brought in new laws to combat espionage and perceived threats to national security, which include vague and sweeping definitions of national secrets.In recent years, Chinese security officers have been especially tough in detaining people born in China who have foreign citizenship. Some visitors of Chinese descent have spent years in prison on sweeping charges.In a travel warning for China reissued last month, the State Department said that American citizens of Chinese heritage could face additional scrutiny and harassment.When Mr. Li went to trial, United States consular officers were not allowed into the hearing, after the court invoked a rule banning outsiders from sensitive cases involving national security. The hearing lasted a little over an hour, said Harrison Li, who is in touch with the consular officers.After the trial, the court took the unusual step of ordering additional investigation by the prosecution office, postponing a judgment, Harrison Li said. Such a move suggests that judges thought the evidence presented by the prosecution was insufficient.Still, the judges last year declared Mr. Li guilty of sharing one “classified” state secret and four “confidential” state secrets, his son said, citing a judgment seen by the United States consulate in Shanghai. Those classes of secrecy both fall below the topmost confidentiality classification in China.Harrison Li hopes that Mr. Trump will take up his father’s case when he next meets with Mr. Xi. But he said he had qualms about speaking out because he was afraid that the authorities might take it out on his father, who has been in poor health with bouts of shingles and constant stomach ailments.“There’s already a very real concern that when families of imprisoned people in China go public, they retaliate,” he said. “It just seems that there’s not much more that can be done quietly.”Chris Buckley reported from Beijing and Edward Wong from Washington.

Supported byLet us help you start your day. By Penn Bullock(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning. A battalion provides a prototype for a European army, nuclear saber-rattling from Russia, and an actor accused of staging an assault on himself. Here’s the latest: On a base in Lohheide, Germany, German and Dutch soldiers serve together in a tank battalion. It’s a prototype for a European army that remains a distant vision of proponents like Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and President Emmanuel Macron of France. There are many obstacles to such an army — language barriers, for starters. Germany’s military is also badly outmoded and short of even thermal underwear, and militarization remains a touchy subject. The Dutch have joined forces with Germany because the Netherlands has no tank program. Populist forces are rising across Europe, emphasizing nationalism over supranational loyalties, even as a European army feels to some more urgent than ever, with America pressuring allies to increase military spending and the U.S. security umbrella increasingly in doubt. A possible future: Efforts like this unit, Battalion 414, are “islands” that need to proliferate and then coalesce into a continental defense structure, said Hans-Peter Bartels, Germany’s parliamentary commissioner for the armed forces.Three lawmakers abandoned Prime Minister Theresa May’s Conservative Party, condemning the government’s handling of Brexit as “disastrous,” and labeling pro-Brexit hard-liners as “a party within a party.” They joined eight rebels from the opposition Labour Party in an attempt to upend Britain’s entrenched two-party system for the first time in a generation.Brexit has become a defining issue for party loyalty. And as the Labour Party moves further to the left and the Conservatives rightward, centrists find themselves adrift.Looking ahead: The 11 newly independent lawmakers number the same as the centrist Liberal Democrats, but as yet have no policy platform, political organization or leader. And the country’s electoral system makes it exceptionally difficult for new parties to break through. Still, an expert told us that British politics might be at its most fluid since the 1920s. President Vladimir Putin used his state-of-the-nation address to make some of his most explicit threats yet to start a nuclear arms race with the U.S. after the Trump administration said this month that America was withdrawing from a landmark arms control treaty. Mr. Putin, whose popularity has fallen sharply in the past year, also promised increased social spending. He did not criticize President Trump, instead suggesting, as he has in the past, that a secretive “deep state” was hobbling the American president. Analysis: Any arms race would be costly, and the Russian leader’s aggressive tone appeared to be intended, in part, to persuade Washington not to abandon the treaty. His promises of increased social spending came without an explanation of how a troubled Russian economy would pay for it all. Other Russia news: Microsoft said that a group of hackers associated with Russian intelligence had targeted civil society groups across Europe.Britain, it seems, isn’t overly worried about using technology from the Chinese giant, despite warnings from the U.S. that Huawei is beholden to Beijing and is a proxy for espionage.The head of Britain’s National Cyber Security Center, Ciaran Martin, said at a conference in Brussels that any risks posed by using Huawei’s technology could be mitigated, citing the strict British security reviews the company has been subjected to for more than 15 years.Why it matters: By the end of the year, Britain will decide whether to use Huawei’s technology in building out its 5G network. Other European countries that are considering Huawei for their 5G networks are watching closely for clues to whether the White House’s claims have been exaggerated.The U.S. position: American officials have argued that 5G networks are much more complex than existing systems, and that the many lines of constantly updating code make the systems nearly impossible to protect entirely.The White House, while pressuring allies to block Huawei, hasn’t provided evidence to back up its accusations of espionage, and the company has consistently denied the claims.Climate change: A panel that the White House is preparing to establish, to examine whether climate change affects national security, is set to include a climate change denier who argues that carbon emissions are beneficial to humanity. UBS: French judges ordered the Swiss financial giant to pay a fine of 3.7 billion euros, about $4.2 billion, for orchestrating what prosecutors said was a long-running scheme to help French clients hide huge sums of money from the authorities. U.S. domestic terrorism: A Coast Guard lieutenant and self-described white nationalist who was arrested in Maryland last week was plotting to kill prominent journalists and Democratic politicians as well as “leftists in general,” federal prosecutors said in a court filing. He is said to have amassed a huge arms cache and studied the manifesto of Anders Behring Breivik, the far-right Norwegian who killed 77 people in 2011.Venezuela: Ahead of a Saturday deadline set by the U.S. and the Venezuelan opposition for allowing in aid shipments, the government of President Nicolás Maduro announced that it was closing its border to air and sea traffic from three Caribbean islands. About three million Venezuelans have fled their collapsing country in recent years, most of them on a 125-mile trek over a 12,000-foot mountain pass.Jussie Smollett: The actor from the hit show “Empire” reported to the Chicago police in January that he had been attacked by masked men hurling homophobic and racial slurs. On Wednesday night, he was charged with staging the assault. The Vatican: Pope Francis and other leaders of the Roman Catholic Church convene today for a conference on clerical sexual abuse. Victims’ advocates are demanding urgent and uniform church laws to impose zero tolerance, but Vatican officials say one world standard is virtually impossible. In interviews, some church leaders even played down the problem of church sexual abuse.Michael Cohen: President Trump’s personal lawyer and longtime fixer, who faces prison time, has agreed to testify in public before Congress next Wednesday, setting up a political fireworks show. Zebra science: Researchers dressed horses in patterned “coats” — and now think they understand why zebra stripes protect against flies.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Feed the family in record time with creamy pasta, bacon and peas.Drowning in plastic? Here are nine steps to help cut your use of single-use plastics.If you have a chronic illness, researching it can help you take some control of situation, and allow your friends and relatives to get a better understanding of what you’re going through.In fortune, children, friends, or wife,Owe all their zest to thee.Those grateful lines are from an ode to Sake (or Sheikh) Dean Mahomed, a Bengali who introduced the concept of shampooing to Britain.Mahomed, who died on or around this day in 1851, had many talents. In 1794, he became the first Indian to publish a book in English. In 1810, he opened the first Indian restaurant in England, the Hindoostane Coffee House in London.But it was his next project that put him on the map. In 1814, he opened a Brighton bathhouse offering luxurious steam baths that ended with a signature head massage, known in India as “champi,” or “shampoo.”He claimed that the popular massage cured an assortment of ailments, including asthma and paralysis, in a book titled, aptly, “Shampooing: Or, Benefits Resulting From the Use of Indian Medicated Vapor Bath.”He was eventually given a royal warrant as the “Shampooing Surgeon” to the king.Alisha Haridasani Gupta wrote today’s Back Story.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.

Supported byBy Aisha HarrisSpoilers ahead. In the formative years of life, most of us learn the basic concepts of human decency. Say “please and thank you.” “Sharing is caring.” The Golden Rule.Then we grow up, and as we encounter the world’s messiness and harsh realities it can be easy to forget what it means to be “good” to others. Television has excelled at reflecting (and sometimes reveling in) this moral slide, in the shameless narcissism of shows like “Seinfeld” and “You’re the Worst,” in the emotional terrorism of “Mad Men” and “You,” and in the sociopathic criminality of “Breaking Bad” and “The Sopranos.”In the last several years, however, a few shows have taken a different approach, one that unambiguously depicts adults stumbling to (re-)learn empathy and respect.Their lessons aren’t presented merely as arcs following the natural progression of a character’s evolution from flawed to enlightened. Instead, in the mold of educational children’s shows, human decency is the premise. Unlike in other series that explore the dark depths of human nature, the characters in these shows actively try to suppress their selfish and harmful impulses in ways both minor and profound. At the very least, the people in their lives (and the shows’ writers) are pushing them toward betterment.[Sign up for our “Game of Thrones” newsletter for a rewatch guide for the first seven seasons.]On “The Good Place,” which just wrapped its third season on NBC, Eleanor (Kristen Bell) and the rest of the gang have to own up to their poor actions on earth in the afterlife, in hopes of escaping eternal punishment in the Bad Place. HBO’s “Barry,” which returns for its second season on March 31, is built around a marine turned hit man (Bill Hader) who wants out of the game but finds himself unable to quit without hurting innocent people.For Nadia (Natasha Lyonne), an East Villager with intimacy issues in the recent Netflix hit “Russian Doll,” the key to hacking her repeating time loop of death and resurrection is to be more selfless. In the most recent season of another Netflix favorite, “BoJack Horseman,” the titular self-destructive TV star (voiced by Will Arnett) must begin to make amends for the untold number of people he has hurt — most of them women.As is often the case in real life, change isn’t borne of these characters’ decisions to suddenly live more honorably; it is borne of self-interest in extreme circumstances. When Eleanor, a habitual liar and gleeful narcissist, first arrives in the Good Place, she believes she was brought there by “accident.” She spends much of Season 1 working secretly to become a better person so she can earn her place before the neighborhood architect, Michael (Ted Danson) finds out.With the help of her assigned soul mate in the Good Place, Chidi (William Jackson Harper), a moral philosophy professor, Eleanor is introduced to ethical concepts and slowly begins to develop positive habits. Notably, she admits the truth about her earthly behavior to Michael and the rest of the neighborhood, setting into motion the show’s interrogation of “good” acts versus “bad.”Eleanor’s progress is essential to the story its creator, Michael Schur, has crafted. As she continues to form real, healthy relationships and seeks redemption, the premise of the show cleverly shifts in Seasons 2 and 3. The validity of the points system used to determine entry into the Good Place frequently comes into question — even those who live their lives perfectly will not make it to paradise, we learn in Season 3 — and so does the cynical view held by leaders of the Bad Place, that humans are fundamentally incapable of being good.Moral evolution is embedded in the DNA of “Russian Doll,” too, though the lessons in kindness sneak up on you. What begins as a dark comedy with echoes of “Groundhog Day” soon takes a twist in Episode 4, when Nadia meets Alan (Charlie Barnett), an uptight depressive who is also caught in a loop reliving the same day over and over.Alan forces Nadia to reckon with the idea that their fate is “purgatorial punishment for being a bad person.” Nadia — who self-identifies as someone who never sticks out her neck “for nobody” — denies such a binary distinction between good and bad.But like Eleanor in “The Good Place,” Nadia unwittingly begins to adjust, as each new loop reveals ways to do things differently and change the trajectory of other people’s lives. Her acts start out small, but they have positive impact: In one example, she develops a special interest in a societal dropout who lives in Tompkins Square Park; at one point she tracks him down at a shelter and prevents someone from stealing his shoes.In the seventh episode, it’s implied that Nadia and Alan’s intertwined death cycle stems from her general disregard for others: When they unknowingly encountered each other in a bodega that first night, instead of helping Alan — who was dangerously inebriated — Nadia ignored him, and he wound up killing himself. By the end of Season 1, both Nadia and Alan ostensibly find a way to break their cycle (and find inner peace), in large part by helping each other avoid repeating harmful mistakes.The transformations of Eleanor and Nadia are driven by a sense of urgency and an end goal: to get to the Good Place, to end the traumatic cycle of death and rebirth.It’s not as clear what the end goals are for Barry and BoJack. But as with Eleanor and Nadia, their struggles to be better reveal the tensions that can arise between acts of outward self-improvement and the motivations behind them. A sudden change or a few good-faith actions don’t mean much if you avoid accountability for your mistakes.Barry has been able to justify his work as a hit man by convincing himself he’s taking out “bad guys,” but in the second episode, he is faced with the aftermath of a kill for the first time: a grieving father.He insists it is Fuches, his handler and family friend, who made him who he is, and that he’s capable of doing the right thing. Barry isn’t quite ready to accept that the “right” thing includes owning up to his crimes and facing the consequences.In the Season 1 finale, Barry has rid himself of Fuches and is living a “normal life,” but his past is resurrected when a detective (Paula Newsome) realizes who he is and insists on arresting him. “I’m a good person,” Barry pleads. “I help people out.”The detective is unfazed and calls him a murderer. So Barry kills her out of self-preservation. Afterward, he vows to live a decent existence “starting now.”At the end of Season 5 of “BoJack Horseman,” the self-loathing, melancholic horse-actor at its center seems finally to have made a similar vow; it ends with his entering rehab. But it has taken a lot of work to get to this point, as he has spent most of the series being a self-absorbed cad, occasionally demonstrating only glimmers of progress that seem always to fall short of countering all the terrible ways he has treated others.BoJack sinks to new lows in Season 5, spiraling into prescription drug addiction. It becomes clear he has yet to confront his past, including the women he has manipulated and possibly abused. In the penultimate episode, a drugged up BoJack nearly strangles his co-star and sometime love interest to death while shooting a scene, forcing him to recognize how much hurt and pain he has caused everyone around him.BoJack asks his friend and writer Diane to write a takedown of him instead in hopes of assuaging his guilt. “I’m a bad guy, and the world needs to know,” he pleads.Diane insists there are no “good” or “bad” guys, and that he needs to stop using this idea as an excuse for his actions. “No one is going to hold you accountable,” she tells him. “You need to take responsibility for yourself.”If “Russian Doll” and “The Good Place” place solid faith in humans’ capacity for change, “Barry” and “BoJack” are more cautiously optimistic. They insist that facing consequences for your actions is just as important — maybe more so.Explicit conversations around morality show up time and again in these shows because they are the narrative. What would have prompted a “Very Special Episode” in a family sitcom of a different era is instead the driving force of these stories. Unlike the cheesy relics of that period, though, “BoJack” and its ilk avoid coming down too hard on what’s “right” or “wrong,” positing only that there are definite ways to be better.Each show lays out a map for moral progression (listen to others; be honest; seek help for your addictions), and if the protagonists don’t always follow that map themselves, the lessons are there for the viewer.It’s almost as if, having tired of the many ways TV itself has contrived to break bad, the writers sought to show that going back to basics can be equally effective.

Supported byBy Nicholas Fandos and Maggie HabermanWASHINGTON — Michael D. Cohen plans to tell Congress on Wednesday that President Trump is a “con man” and a “cheat” who knew a longtime adviser was communicating with WikiLeaks — and who implicitly instructed Mr. Cohen to lie about a Trump Tower project in Moscow that was underway during the 2016 presidential campaign.The extraordinary testimony will take place when Mr. Cohen, the president’s former lawyer and fixer, publicly appears before the House Oversight and Reform Committee. An advance copy of Mr. Cohen’s testimony was obtained Tuesday night by reporters at multiple news organizations, including The New York Times, just as Mr. Trump began meetings in Vietnam before convening with the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un.[Read the opening statement. Find what to watch for here.]Mr. Cohen and his lawyer and adviser, Lanny J. Davis, did not immediately reply to requests for comment.In a statement earlier Tuesday, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, condemned Mr. Cohen as a “disgraced felon.”“It’s laughable that anyone would take a convicted liar like Cohen at his word, and pathetic to see him given yet another opportunity to spread his lies,” she said.In vivid and at times tortured language, Mr. Cohen plans to use his opening remarks to unspool a narrative laced with regret of his decade working alongside Mr. Trump, including episodes during the 2016 campaign that are believed to be at the center of investigations by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, and federal prosecutors in New York.The testimony underscores many of the unsavory themes and stories that have recurred in public reporting about Mr. Trump — he inflates his wealth, makes racist remarks, threatens his enemies and tries to bend the law to his favor — but puts them on the record, under oath, in the voice of a man who was one of Mr. Trump’s closest aides.“I am ashamed that I chose to take part in concealing Mr. Trump’s illicit acts rather than listening to my own conscience,” Mr. Cohen plans to say. “I am ashamed because I know what Mr. Trump is. He is a racist. He is a con man. He is a cheat.”But there are also more perilous claims that could further highlight Mr. Trump’s potential legal exposure in the investigations that have already ensnared Mr. Cohen and other Trump associates. Mr. Cohen’s testimony before the Oversight Committee will be his first in public, before Congress, but he has already spent more than 70 hours with Mr. Mueller’s investigators and with federal prosecutors in New York investigating a scheme hatched in the run-up to the 2016 election to make hush money payments to a pornographic film actress who claimed to have had an affair with Mr. Trump.Mr. Cohen and his account will be subjected to deep scrutiny by Republicans, who have already begun to hammer away with questions about his past business dealings and credibility. They plan to use Wednesday’s hearing to paint Mr. Cohen as self-centered and untrustworthy — a man who ran afoul of the law, including by lying to Congress once before, and then once he was caught, sought to spin lies about his former boss to reduce his time in prison.Mr. Cohen will address his own past lies head-on and plans to use documents to try to bolster certain claims. He plans to draw a picture of Mr. Trump using the type of nonspecific directives more often associated with organized crime bosses than with American presidents.“In conversations we had during the campaign, at the same time I was actively negotiating in Russia for him, he would look me in the eye and tell me there’s no business in Russia and then go out and lie to the American people by saying the same thing,” Mr. Cohen plans to say. “In his way, he was telling me to lie.”He will add: “Mr. Trump did not directly tell me to lie to Congress. That’s not how he operates.”Mr. Cohen also plans to say that Mr. Trump’s personal lawyers approved his testimony, suggesting that they signed off on him telling a false version of events to the House and Senate Intelligence Committees. Mr. Cohen is meeting with both committees again in private this week in part to correct those earlier false statements.“Mr. Trump knew of and directed the Trump Moscow negotiations throughout the campaign and lied about it,” Mr. Cohen will say. “He lied about it because he never expected to win the election. He also lied about it because he stood to make hundreds of millions of dollars on the Moscow real estate project.”Wednesday’s congressional hearing is focusing in part on how much Trump knew about hush money payments and a proposed Trump Tower in Moscow.What Mr. Trump said to Mr. Cohen has emerged as a central question, after the website BuzzFeed reported last month that Mr. Mueller had evidence that the president had “personally directed” his former lawyer to lie about the project when he testified before Congress in 2017. Mr. Mueller’s office called the report “inaccurate.”Mr. Cohen’s account under oath will state that something took place, but not that Mr. Trump made an overt directive.Mr. Cohen will also tell Congress that Mr. Trump had advance knowledge through his longtime adviser Roger J. Stone Jr. that WikiLeaks would publish hacked emails that would damage his opponent, Hillary Clinton.“In July 2016, days before the Democratic convention, I was in Mr. Trump’s office when his secretary announced that Roger Stone was on the phone. Mr. Trump put Mr. Stone on the speakerphone,” his written remarks say. “Mr. Stone told Mr. Trump that he had just gotten off the phone with Julian Assange and that Mr. Assange told Mr. Stone that, within a couple of days, there would be a massive dump of emails that would damage Hillary Clinton’s campaign. Mr. Trump responded by stating to the effect of ‘wouldn’t that be great.’”Mr. Stone, who was recently indicted on charges that include witness tampering and false statements to Congress, has denied to reporters that such a conversation took place. The recent indictment against him made no mention of such a conversation, but it did state that a senior campaign official was directed to contact Mr. Stone around that period of time about what material WikiLeaks had.And Mr. Cohen will reference a conversation he claims to have observed between the president’s eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., and his father, which he believes happened around the time of a planned meeting with a Russian lawyer promising “dirt” on Hillary Clinton.He does not claim to have heard a direct reference to the meeting. Instead, Mr. Cohen will say, he recalled this event after The Times revealed the June 2016 meeting had taken place.“I recalled Don Jr. leaning over to his father and speaking in a low voice, which I could clearly hear, and saying, ‘The meeting is all set.’ I remember Mr. Trump saying, “O.K. good … let me know,’” Mr. Cohen will say.CNN reported last year, citing sources, that Mr. Cohen had witnessed the younger Mr. Trump describing the meeting with the Russian lawyer to his father. Mr. Cohen’s lawyer, Mr. Davis, later said he had provided information for that report and that it was erroneous.Much of what Mr. Cohen will say about the hush money payments he made at Mr. Trump’s behest in the final weeks of the 2016 campaign has already been revealed in Federal Court or in news reports after Mr. Cohen was charged with a campaign finance violation for the scheme. But he will describe a surreal scene in the Oval Office, just a month into Mr. Trump’s term, in which the president assured Mr. Cohen that reimbursement checks for the illegal payments were on their way.Mr. Cohen will chronicle less legally dubious but unflattering encounters, as well, according to the prepared remarks. He plans to say that as a candidate, Mr. Trump directed him to write letters to his high school, college and other entities threatening them not to release transcripts of his standardized test scores.He will claim that Mr. Trump asked him to put off reporters asking about his medical deferment from the Vietnam draft, telling Mr. Cohen privately that there were no medical records of the bone spurs that he has said affected his heel.“You think I’m stupid? I wasn’t going to Vietnam,” Mr. Trump said, according to Mr. Cohen.And he will assert that “it was my experience” that Mr. Trump inflated his wealth to garner attention, and deflated his assets to lower his tax bills.Mr. Cohen plans to describe his former boss as a jumble of conflicts, but one who is ultimately a dishonorable person.“Mr. Trump is an enigma,” Mr. Cohen will say. “He is complicated, as am I. He has both good and bad, as do we all. But the bad far outweighs the good, and since taking office, he has become the worst version of himself.”Detailing the hush money payments to the actress that Mr. Cohen was reimbursed for, he will state the affair as fact and will say that lying to Mr. Trump’s wife, Melania, is something he deeply regrets. “She is a kind, good person,” he will say. “I respect her greatly, and she did not deserve that.”Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.

Supported byBy Chris Stanford(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning,We start with Michael Cohen’s testimony in Congress today, updates from President Trump’s meeting with North Korea’s leader, and new hostilities between India and Pakistan.Michael Cohen publicly testified in Congress today that President Trump knew an adviser was communicating with WikiLeaks and that Mr. Trump implicitly instructed Mr. Cohen to lie about a Trump Tower project in Moscow during the 2016 campaign.Calling Mr. Trump “a con man,” “a cheat” and “a racist,” Mr. Cohen said that Mr. Trump knew in advance through a longtime adviser, Roger Stone, that WikiLeaks would publish hacked emails from the campaign of his opponent, Hillary Clinton. Mr. Cohen is now answering questions from the House Oversight and Reform Committee.Read: Mr. Cohen’s prepared remarks and the documents he provided to Congress to support his testimony.Closer look: Today’s hearing will focus in part on how much Mr. Trump knew about hush money payments and the proposed Trump Tower in Moscow. Here’s what we know about the two episodes.Yesterday: Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, denounced Mr. Cohen as a “disgraced felon.” Representative Matt Gaetz, Republican of Florida, threatened to reveal what he said were Mr. Cohen’s extramarital affairs, rejecting assertions that his attack could amount to witness intimidation.President Trump met over dinner today with the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, in Hanoi, Vietnam, before the formal start of talks on Thursday over the North’s nuclear weapons program. (Hanoi is 12 hours ahead of Eastern Time.) “I think you will have a tremendous future with your country — a great leader,” Mr. Trump told Mr. Kim. “And I look forward to watching it happen and helping it to happen.” Here are the latest updates.Go deeper: Mr. Trump has signaled that he is willing to shift his administration’s goals from immediate dismantlement of the North’s arsenal to limits on its size and reach. “I don’t want to rush anybody,” he said this past weekend. “As long as there is no testing, we’re happy.” Another angle: In an interview with The Times, the highest-ranking North Korean diplomat to defect in years said Mr. Kim had no intention of relinquishing his nuclear arsenal.The effort to prevent President Trump from diverting funding to a border wall without congressional approval is headed for a vote in the Senate in the coming weeks, after the House passed the measure on Tuesday.Three Republican senators have already declared their backing for the measure, one shy of the number needed for Congress to ratify it. But it remains highly unlikely that there will be enough support to overturn Mr. Trump’s promised veto.The details: Thirteen House Republicans joined the Democrats to block the national emergency declaration. Here’s how every representative voted.Related: House Democrats subpoenaed three cabinet officials on Tuesday, escalating their battle over the administration’s policy of separating migrant families at the southern border.In a decision that could split the United Methodist Church, church officials and lay members from around the world voted on Tuesday to strengthen a ban on same-sex marriage and on gay and lesbian clergy.Some pastors and bishops in the U.S., where Methodists are the second-largest Protestant denomination, are already talking about leaving and possibly creating an alliance for gay-friendly churches. Notable: The vote reflected the growing clout of Methodists from outside the U.S. About 30 percent of the church’s 12 million members are from African nations, which typically have conservative Christian views.Tensions escalated today between the nuclear-armed neighbors after Pakistan’s military said it had shot down two Indian warplanes and captured a pilot. Pakistan had initially said that it held two Indians.India’s government later confirmed that one of its fighter jets had been “lost” as it thwarted an attempt by Pakistan’s air force to strike an unspecified target inside India.Yesterday: Prime Minister Imran Khan of Pakistan promised to retaliate after Indian fighter jets crossed the disputed Kashmir region for the first time in decades to launch an airstrike within Pakistan. India has blamed Pakistan for a suicide attack that killed dozens of soldiers this month.The study of leadership style has blossomed in the past decade. Psychologists, business analysts and organization experts have taken various measures of productivity, performance and well-being. Most findings point to the same conclusion.Bullying bosses (think Bobby Knight, above, the former Indiana University basketball coach) tend to undermine their own teams. Chicago election: The city will have its first black female mayor after two African-American women, Lori Lightfoot and Toni Preckwinkle, won the most votes in a 14-candidate field on Tuesday. A runoff election is set for April.New House race: Mark Harris, the North Carolina Republican whose campaign financed a fraud-tainted voter-turnout effort, said that he would not run in a new election.Second term in Nigeria: Muhammadu Buhari was re-elected as president of Africa’s most populous country, election officials declared today.New Brexit concession: Prime Minister Theresa May has agreed that Parliament should have the chance to delay Britain’s exit from the European Union if it rejects other options. L.I.R.R. collision: Two Long Island Rail Road trains traveling in opposite directions struck a car that had swerved around lowered gates and onto the tracks on Tuesday, killing three people in the car.Snapshot: Above, St. James’s Park in London on Tuesday, where temperatures peaked at 70 degrees Fahrenheit (21 Celsius). It was the hottest February day in Britain since record-keeping began in 1910. Late-night comedy: Jimmy Kimmel noted that President Trump had arrived in Vietnam, “reporting for duty only about 50 years late.”What we’re playing: The game of life as an Amazon warehouse worker. Albert Sun, an assistant editor writes, “Games have scores. Amazon workers have a pick rate. Take five minutes to play through this game from ABC Australia and see what it’s like for your entire job to be driven by a single number.”Cook: Make chicken piccata, and rejoice over its butter-rich pan sauce.Experience: We broke down a waltz from the first half of “Liebeslieder Walzer,” George Balanchine’s intimate dance about the complications of the human heart.Go: Month by month, the best way to find travel deals.See: The best of Paris Fashion Week (so far) in pictures. Smarter Living: The most important part of choosing the right perfume or cologne is trying it on. Spray it on a wrist or elbow, where you’re naturally warm, so the fragrance will reveal itself over time. Not sure? Ask for a sample to take home. Also, why we yawn remains a mystery, but one theory is that yawning cools off the brain.This week, Vice President Mike Pence accused Uruguay of being a “bystander” in Venezuela’s crisis, calling on its center-left government to do more to end President Nicolás Maduro’s devastating reign.A reader, Annelise Gasser of Quebec, asked how a small South American nation had acquired such diplomatic significance.Uruguay, which has clean democratic credentials and decent relations with Mr. Maduro, maintains credibility with both Maduro supporters and opponents that makes it a natural intermediary.Uruguay’s soft approach stems from a live-and-let-live attitude, developed over two centuries of coexistence with much bigger neighbors. The country has long led the region in progressive politics, including legalizing marijuana and same-sex marriage.While hard-liners in Miami might threaten military intervention to oust Mr. Maduro, on the laid-back streets of Montevideo, Uruguay’s capital, residents tend to resolve problems over a slow barbecue and the ever-present thermos of caffeine-rich mate (pronounced MAH-tay).That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.— ChrisThank youTo Mark Josephson, James K. Williamson, Aaron Henry and Andrea Kannapell for the break from the news. Anatoly Kurmanaev, our Caracas-based reporter, wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about the fraudulent House election in North Carolina.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Science fiction author Asimov (5 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • Nicholas Casey, the Andes bureau chief at The Times since January 2016, has been barred from entering Venezuela since October 2016. That has not stopped his reporting.Chris Stanford is based in London and writes the U.S. version of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles a weekly news quiz. He was previously a producer for the desktop home page and mobile site, helping to present The New York Times’s news report to readers. Before joining The Times in 2013, he was an editor and designer at The Washington Post and other news organizations.  @stanfordc 

Supported byLet us help you start your day.By Alisha Haridasani Gupta(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning. Huawei gets a potential boost in Europe, Saudi Arabia courts Asia and scientists try to figure out why zebras have stripes. Here’s the latest: In addition to the president’s public criticism of the many investigations that have consumed his time in the White House, an examination by The Times found a sustained, behind-the-scenes effort by Mr. Trump to beat back the probes. Details: The president tried to install a perceived loyalist in charge of a federal inquiry looking into hush money payments for women who, during the presidential campaign, claimed that they had sex with Mr. Trump.How we know: Times reporters interviewed dozens of current and former government officials and others close to Mr. Trump, and reviewed confidential White House documents.Why it matters: Mr. Trump’s public and secret efforts to undermine the investigation and unleash an unprecedented attack of his own law enforcement apparatus have exposed him to accusations of obstruction of justice. Here are more takeaways from our investigation.Reaction: Mr. Trump dismissed the reporting as false and called The Times a “true enemy of the people” — invoking a term Nazi Germany and Stalin-era Soviets used to vilify opponents.Other White House news: The president is preparing to establish a panel to review scientific and defense warnings that climate change is a profound risk to national security. It is to include a physicist who has gained notoriety in the scientific community for suggesting that carbon dioxide — widely believed to be a damaging greenhouse gas — is beneficial to humanity.Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman has landed in China for meetings with President Xi Jinping and other officials — the last stop of a whirlwind tour that also included Pakistan and India.His swing through the region is aimed at deepening economic ties. More broadly, it reflects the kingdom’s efforts to diversify its alliances after relations with Western nations soured.Background: Western countries have been distancing themselves since the killing of a dissident writer, Jamal Khashoggi, in Turkey last year, which many suspect was directed by the prince. There has also been increasing scrutiny of the kingdom’s role in the war in Yemen, which the U.N. has called the world’s worst current humanitarian disaster.Why it matters: Saudi Arabia’s renewed focus on Asian countries that have prioritized economic cooperation with the kingdom over human rights concerns sends a signal to the West. “The message is that there are other options out there,” said one expert.In the U.S.: House Democrats opened an investigation this week into the Trump administration’s plans to circumvent normal policymaking process to build nuclear power plants in Saudi Arabia, which they say could spread nuclear weapons technology in the volatile Middle East. Britain, it seems, isn’t too worried about using technology from the Chinese giant, despite warnings from the U.S. that Huawei is beholden to Beijing and a proxy for espionage.The head of Britain’s National Cyber Security Center, Ciaran Martin, said at a conference in Brussels that any risks posed by using Huawei’s technology could be mitigated, citing the strict British security reviews the company has been subjected to for more than 15 years.Why it matters: By the end of the year, Britain will decide whether or not to use Huawei’s technology in building out its 5G network.Countries across Europe that are also considering Huawei for their 5G networks are watching closely, looking for clues on whether the White House’s claims have been exaggerated.The U.S. position: American officials have argued that 5G networks are much more complex than existing systems, and that the many lines of constantly updating code make the systems nearly impossible to protect entirely.The White House, while pressuring allies to block Huawei, hasn’t provided evidence to back up its accusations of espionage, and the company has always denied the claims.A prominent scholar and intellectual, Professor Anand Teltumbde, who has been a vocal critic of Prime Minister Narendra Modi was jailed and could be charged with conspiring “to overthrow the established government.”But human rights activists and academics around the world, including Noam Chomsky, view the case against him as part of the government’s effort to quash criticism ahead of crucial elections later this year.Background: In a speech in 2017, Mr. Teltumbde compared Mr. Modi to Hitler, saying his policies — which are rooted in Hindu nationalism — amounted to “fascism.” He also blamed the prime minister for religious riots in Gujarat in 2002 that killed more than 1,000 people.Reaction: Alarmed intellectuals have signed international petitions calling on the U.N. to intervene. Islamic State: Two American women who traveled to Syria to join the terrorist group and married its fighters now regret their decisions and want to come back home. Their prospects of doing so may be limited.The Forbidden City: For the first time since 1925, the historic Beijing landmark has opened its doors to the public at night for two days this week, allowing visitors to view its palaces and temples in ethereal lighting.China: Hundreds of people gathered in Beijing to mourn Li Rui, 104, a former aide to Mao Zedong who later became a vocal critic of the party. The funeral followed Communist Party protocol, which his daughter said he would have not have wanted.K-Pop: South Korea’s government, concerned about how “identical” pop stars with the same delicate features and slim figures influence the country’s youth, issued broadcast guidelines to restrict their presence on TV. The move drew widespread criticism from fans, including comparisons to censorship during the country’s military dictatorship.Cyberattacks: Microsoft said that a group of hackers with ties to the Kremlin’s intelligence apparatus targeted research groups and nongovernmental organizations across Europe ahead of European Parliament elections in May, the latest attempt to disrupt opponents of President Vladimir Putin.Brexit: Britain’s divorce from the E.U. is straining its political structures. Three lawmakers who represent the more pro-European wing of Britain’s governing Conservatives resigned from their party in protest of hard-liners’ influence on much of the E.U. withdrawal plan. Two days earlier, eight lawmakers quit the opposition Labour Party.Europe: At a time when populism threatens to undermine the cohesiveness of the bloc, Germany and the Netherlands have come together to create the world’s first binational battalion, an informal test case for a European army.The Roman Catholic Church: Pope Francis and other church leaders convene today for an unprecedented conference on clerical sexual abuse. Ahead of that gathering, our Op-Ed columnist Frank Bruni weighs in on a different problem confronting the church: its treatment of gay Catholics.“Game of Thrones”: With just under two months to go before HBO releases the eighth and final season of its biggest-ever hit, The Times is rolling out a preseason guide to rewatching the first seven seasons, with a deep dive into plot twists and themes you might have forgotten and tributes to the characters loved and lost. Sign up here to get it by email.Zebra science: Scientists dressed horses in patterned “coats” — and think they understand why zebra stripes protect against flies.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Feed the kids in record time with creamy pasta, bacon and peas.Drowning in plastic? We have nine steps to help you cut down your single-use plastic consumption.If you have a chronic illness, researching it will help you take control, and allow your friends and relatives to get a better understanding of what you’re going through.“In fortune, children, friends, or wife,Owe all their zest to thee.”Those grateful lines are from an ode to Sake (or Sheikh) Dean Mahomed, a Bengali who introduced the concept of shampooing to Britain.Mahomed — who died on or around this day in 1851 — had many talents. In 1794, he became the first Indian to publish a book in English. In 1810, he opened the first Indian restaurant in England, the Hindoostane Coffee House in London.But it was his next project that put him on the map. In 1814, he opened a Brighton bathhouse offering luxurious steam baths that ended with a signature head massage, known in India as “champi,” or “shampoo.”He claimed the popular massage cured an assortment of ailments, including asthma and paralysis, in a book titled, aptly, “Shampooing, or, Benefits Resulting From the Use of Indian Medicated Vapor Bath.”He was eventually given a royal warrant as the “Shampooing Surgeon” to the king.Your briefing writer, Alisha Haridasani Gupta, wrote today’s Back Story. Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.Alisha Haridasani Gupta writes the Morning Briefing.  @alisha__g 

Supported byBy Sharon LaFraniere, Kenneth P. Vogel and Scott ShaneWASHINGTON — Of the few hints to emerge from the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, about evidence of possible collusion between President Trump’s campaign and Russia, one of the most tantalizing surfaced almost in passing in a Washington courtroom last week.Comments by one of Mr. Mueller’s lead prosecutors, disclosed in a transcript of a closed-door hearing, suggest that the special counsel continues to pursue at least one theory: that starting while Russia was taking steps to bolster Mr. Trump’s candidacy, people in his orbit were discussing deals to end a dispute over Russia’s incursions into Ukraine and possibly give Moscow relief from economic sanctions imposed by the United States and its allies.The theory was offered almost as an aside by the prosecutor, Andrew Weissmann, during a discussion of contacts between Mr. Trump’s former campaign chairman, Paul Manafort, and a longtime Russian associate, Konstantin V. Kilimnik, whom investigators have linked to Russian intelligence.A closer look at the transcript, released late Thursday, shows that the prosecutors have been keenly focused on discussions the two men had about a plan to end the conflict that followed Russia’s invasion of Ukraine and annexation of Crimea in 2014. Persuading the United States to ease or end the American-led sanctions imposed to punish Moscow for its aggression has been a primary goal of Russian foreign policy.According to the transcript, which was heavily redacted, Mr. Manafort and Mr. Kilimnik repeatedly communicated about a so-called peace plan for Ukraine starting in early August 2016, while Mr. Manafort was still running Mr. Trump’s campaign, and continuing into 2018, months after Mr. Manafort had been charged by the special counsel’s office with a litany of crimes related to his work in the country. The prosecutors claim that Mr. Manafort misled them about those talks and other interactions with Mr. Kilimnik.Pressed by the judge at Monday’s hearing to say why Mr. Manafort’s alleged lies mattered, Mr. Weissmann gave a broad hint about the thrust of the investigation.“This goes to the larger view of what we think is going on, and what we think is the motive here,” Mr. Weissmann said. “This goes, I think, very much to the heart of what the special counsel’s office is investigating.”Mr. Weissmann did not elaborate. The hearing’s purpose was narrow — determining whether Mr. Manafort had breached his plea agreement by misleading the prosecutors about Mr. Kilimnik and other matters. Mr. Kilimnik was charged last June with conspiring with Mr. Manafort to obstruct justice by trying to shape the accounts of prospective witnesses in Mr. Manafort’s case.Yet Mr. Weissmann’s cryptic comments suggest that the special counsel’s investigation — which Mr. Trump has sought to dismiss as a witch hunt and which the acting attorney general, Matthew G. Whitaker, has said will wrap up soon — is still pursuing the central question of whether there was some kind of deal between Russia and the Trump campaign.Six Trump advisers or officials have been charged by the special counsel.To date, prosecutions by the special counsel have skirted that question. They have laid out Russia’s hacking, leaking and social media manipulation, most of it in favor of Mr. Trump. They have charged multiple Trump aides with lying, including the president’s first national security adviser, Michael T. Flynn, who admitted misleading the F.B.I. about his discussions with the Russian ambassador about sanctions.Mr. Trump’s longtime friend Roger J. Stone Jr. was indicted last month on charges of lying to Congress about his efforts to contact WikiLeaks, which released tens of thousands of Democratic emails stolen by the Russians.But the essential question of why the Kremlin bet so heavily on Mr. Trump, and whether President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia had any indication that Mr. Trump would give him what he desired, has remained unresolved.Senator Richard M. Burr of North Carolina, a Republican who is the chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, told CBS News on Thursday that, based on the evidence they have seen so far, the committee’s investigators “don’t have anything that would suggest there was collusion by the Trump campaign and Russia.”But Mr. Weissmann’s remarks seem to suggest that for the special counsel, at least, that avenue of inquiry is still alive.The sanctions have inflicted substantial pain on the Russian economy. As a candidate and a new president, Mr. Trump seemed skeptical that such punishment was necessary or effective.“Trump’s unusual sympathy and receptivity to Putin and the Kremlin was evident throughout the campaign” and the first few months of his presidency, said John E. Herbst, a former United States ambassador to Ukraine. That pattern, he said, fueled the notion that Mr. Trump might seek a “grand bargain” that would end sanctions, possibly on terms deeply unfavorable to Ukraine.The sanctions also limited business opportunities with Russia. Mr. Trump had long sought a marquee Trump Tower project in Moscow, and at least two aides were pursuing separate nuclear power projects that would have benefited from an end to the sanctions.As Mr. Trump took office, some State Department officials described worrying inquiries that suggested the White House might be preparing to precipitously drop the sanctions. And various intermediaries floated proposals they said would end the sporadic combat in eastern Ukraine between Russian-funded separatist fighters and Ukrainian forces trying to hold back the loss of more territory.Michael D. Cohen, Mr. Trump’s longtime fixer, told The New York Times that he left a sealed envelope containing one such plan on Mr. Flynn’s White House desk.Mr. Kilimnik, meanwhile, was trying to use his extensive ties to Mr. Manafort to advance another. It envisioned the return of Viktor F. Yanukovych, a pro-Russia politician who had risen to the presidency of Ukraine in 2010 with the help of Mr. Manafort, who was paid tens of millions of dollars for his efforts.Mr. Yanukovych was forced from office by a popular uprising in 2014 and fled to Russia. Mr. Kilimnik wanted to resurrect him as a semiautonomous leader in eastern Ukraine, a division of the country fiercely opposed by most Ukrainians.In a February 2017 interview with The Times, Mr. Kilimnik described Mr. Manafort as a possible negotiator for the deal. He said that Mr. Manafort had told him that “there is only one enemy — the chaos.”“If there is a serious project that can bring peace to Ukraine, Manafort will be back,” Mr. Kilimnik said at the time.The first discussion between Mr. Manafort and Mr. Kilimnik cited by the prosecutors took place on Aug. 2, 2016, at the Grand Havana Room in Manhattan, and also included Rick Gates, Mr. Manafort’s deputy on the Trump campaign and during his Ukraine work. Mr. Weissmann noted that Mr. Manafort and Mr. Gates tried to avoid drawing attention at that meeting, leaving separately from Mr. Kilimnik.“That meeting and what happened at that meeting is of significance to the special counsel,” Mr. Weissmann said at the hearing.Mr. Manafort initially told prosecutors he had dismissed Mr. Kilimnik’s proposal out of hand, Mr. Weissmann said. In fact, according to the transcript, Mr. Manafort and Mr. Kilimnik talked about the proposal again in December 2016; in January 2017, when Mr. Kilimnik was in Washington for Mr. Trump’s inauguration; and again in Madrid the next month.Mr. Weissmann noted that those talks went forward despite the “enormous amount of attention” in the United States at the time to contacts between Russians and Trump associates.Mr. Manafort’s lawyer, Richard Westling, suggested the discussions were not all that memorable to Mr. Manafort because he had minimal interest in advancing Mr. Kilimnik’s plan. Although the two men revisited the proposal after Mr. Trump’s election, he said, “there is no real follow through.”Mr. Westling said it was not the only such plan afloat — nor was it the only one proposed by Mr. Kilimnik, who has denied having ties to Russian intelligence. Kevin Downing, another lawyer for Mr. Manafort, argued that suspicions about Mr. Kilimnik’s communications were “nonsense” because “the sanctions were going to continue against Russia” whether or not Mr. Trump was elected.What Mr. Manafort and Mr. Kilimnik discussed about the Russia-Ukraine conflict is not all that concerned prosecutors. Another issue is a directive from Mr. Manafort to Mr. Gates to turn over Trump campaign polling data to Mr. Kilimnik in the midst of the presidential race.The transcript suggests that Mr. Manafort claims that he wanted only public data transferred. But Mr. Weissmann told the judge that the question of whether any American, wittingly or unwittingly, engaged with Russians who were interfering in the election relates to “the core” of the special counsel’s inquiry.Mr. Manafort’s allies argue that prosecutors have not proved that Mr. Kilimnik was linked to Russian intelligence, and have suggested that he interacted with the United States Embassy in Kiev. They noted that he traveled freely to the United States and had communications with the State Department.But Judge Amy Berman Jackson seemed to agree with prosecutors that whether Mr. Manafort lied about his contacts with Mr. Kilimnik was important, saying at one point, “I am, actually, particularly concerned about this particular alleged false statement.”During the hearing, prosecutors suggested that Mr. Manafort was to be a spokesman in the United States, apparently for Mr. Kilimnik’s plan to divide Ukraine.“If he were the spokesperson, and denominated as such within the United States,” Mr. Weissmann said, “he would also have access to senior people.” He then broke off, saying, “That’s as far as I can go.”Follow Sharon LaFraniere, Kenneth P. Vogel and Scott Shane on Twitter: @SharonLNYT, @KenVogel and @ScottShaneNYT.Andrew Kramer and Julia Mendel contributed reporting from Kiev, Ukraine.

Supported byBy Nicholas FandosWASHINGTON — The House Intelligence Committee on Wednesday began a broad inquiry into whether Russia and other foreign powers may be exercising influence over President Trump, acting only hours after a defiant Speaker Nancy Pelosi declared that the House would not be cowed by the president’s “all-out threat” to drop its investigations of his administration.Other committees were zeroing in on similarly sensitive oversight targets. On Thursday, Democrats will begin their quest to secure the president’s long-suppressed tax returns. The chairman of the Judiciary Committee readied a subpoena for the acting attorney general, Matthew G. Whitaker, in case he tried to avoid Democratic questioning. And a House Appropriations subcommittee chairwoman began an inquiry into administration rule-bending during the 35-day partial government shutdown.“It’s our congressional responsibility, and if we didn’t do it, we would be delinquent in that,” Ms. Pelosi said of the House’s oversight role, hours after Mr. Trump used his State of the Union address to warn that “ridiculous partisan investigations” threatened the nation’s economic health and the prospects of bipartisan legislating.That, Ms. Pelosi said, “was a threat — it was an all-out threat.”The confrontation between a newly empowered House majority and a president of the opposite party drew comparisons to Democrats’ investigations of the George W. Bush administration after the 2006 elections and Republicans’ blitz of Barack Obama’s administration after the 2010 midterms. But Democrats and even some Republicans conceded that the targets offered up by Mr. Trump and his administration were far more numerous than his predecessors’, and his threats and protests have been more vocal.House and Senate negotiators are rushing to reach agreement on a border-security funding bill before the government again runs out of money at midnight Feb. 15, so Mr. Trump’s suggestion that bipartisan legislating will be impossible amid Democratic investigations could hold weight.But despite that warning, the gears of congressional oversight — which were mostly still under Republican control during Mr. Trump’s first two years in office — began to pick up speed on Wednesday in the portrait-lined hearing rooms of the House office buildings.Meeting for the first time this Congress, the Intelligence Committee laid out a five-point investigation of the president’s potential foreign entanglements that was far broader in scope than previously expected.Democrats said they had reopened the inquiry into Russia’s election interference efforts and possible collusion with the Trump campaign that the Republican majority closed last year. But they will layer on “interconnected lines of inquiry,” including whether Russia or other foreign actors hold financial or other leverage over Mr. Trump and his associates that at any point could have influenced American policy. Democrats also added a broadly construed obstruction of justice component to their work for the first time.Mr. Trump dismissed the inquiry after it was announced, targeting the Intelligence Committee chairman, Adam B. Schiff of California.“He’s just a political hack. He’s trying to build a name for himself,” Mr. Trump said, adding, “It’s called presidential harassment. And it’s unfortunate. And it really does hurt our country.”Mr. Schiff shot back, “I can understand why the idea of meaningful oversight terrifies the president. Look, several associates of his have gone to jail. Others are awaiting trial.”He said the expanded Russia investigation would be done in coordination with other committees, including the Financial Services Committee, which wants to determine whether Russia or other foreign actors laundered money through the Trump Organization.“Our job involves making sure the policy of the United States is being driven by the national interest,” Mr. Schiff said, “not by any financial entanglement, financial leverage or other form of compromise.”Intelligence Committee Republicans, who have already begun to accuse the Democrats of politically motivated overreach, did not endorse the inquiry’s parameters. In a separate statement, they called on Democrats to subpoena unnamed witnesses they recommended, and privately, they accused Democrats of being more interested in keeping a politically damaging issue alive for the 2020 elections than finding new facts.In its meeting, the committee also voted to share transcripts of witness interviews that it conducted related to Russian election interference with the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III. Mr. Mueller has already used two such transcripts to charge associates of the president’s with lying to Congress, and Democrats believe others could have intentionally misled the committee.Other committees were making moves, too.The Judiciary Committee had called a meeting for Thursday to vote on a subpoena to compel testimony from Mr. Whitaker, if needed. Mr. Whitaker, a loyalist of the president’s who is currently overseeing Mr. Mueller’s work, is scheduled to testify voluntarily on Friday, but Democrats have concerns that he might try to back out or dodge questions about the firing of his predecessor, about the president’s attacks on the Justice Department and about other matters related to the Mueller inquiry.“For the first two years of the Trump administration, Congress allowed government witnesses to dodge uncomfortable questions,” the committee’s chairman, Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, wrote in a statement. “That era is over.”Perhaps most personally for the president, a Ways and Means oversight subcommittee will hold its first hearing on Thursday to start building a public rationale to pursue Mr. Trump’s tax returns.An obscure provision in the federal tax code gives the chairman of the committee unilateral powers to request from the Treasury Department tax information on any filer, including the president.Democrats view obtaining Mr. Trump’s returns — which he has refused to release, defying modern political norms — as necessary for their broader inquiries into potential conflicts of interest between his role as president and his business operations, as well as accusations of money laundering that may have involved Russian oligarchs or other financial crimes. But the request is fraught with tension, both because of an anticipated legal challenge from the administration and because of pressure from the party’s left flank on leaders who are proceeding slowly to try to build an airtight public relations and legal case first.Meantime, Representative Betty McCollum of Minnesota, the chairwoman of the Appropriations subcommittee that funds the Interior Department, asked the Government Accountability Office to issue a formal opinion on the administration’s diversion of user fees at the national parks to fund operations during the government shutdown. Such funds are supposed to be earmarked for long-term capital improvement projects.And Democrats on the Oversight and Reform Committee took their own swipe at the president at a hearing examining proposed ethics rules for the executive branch.“Both Democratic and Republican ethics experts warned President Trump to do this years ago, but he refused,” said Representative Elijah E. Cummings of Maryland, the chairman of the committee. “They warned that every decision he made could be questioned, and the American people would rightly wonder whether he was serving the nation’s interests or his own financial interests. Unfortunately, that is exactly what has happened over the past two years.”Advisers around the president have been preparing for the congressional onslaught for months, and they know there is little hope of dissuading Democrats, who won control of the House by promising to be a check on Mr. Trump. That, and the long history of congressional oversight of the executive branch, made Mr. Trump’s comments on Tuesday night all the more surprising to lawmakers.“An economic miracle is taking place in the United States — and the only thing that can stop it are foolish wars, politics or ridiculous partisan investigations,” the president said amid a broader call for bipartisan cooperation. “If there is going to be peace and legislation, there cannot be war and investigation. It just doesn’t work that way!”Ms. Pelosi called that a false choice, telling reporters on Wednesday that Democrats could engage with Mr. Trump on issues like immigration and reducing prescription drug pricing while also holding his administration accountable.While the president’s strongest allies on Capitol Hill sought to train attention on Democrats’ aggressive maneuvering, other Republicans shrugged off Mr. Trump’s comments.“The president has a habit of expressing what he is feeling, and he expresses himself often,” said Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee. “But he also enjoys going to bill signing ceremonies, like the one we had for criminal justice reform. We are used to politics around here, and conflict, and the president can express himself, but we are going to continue to work on a bipartisan basis to get things done.”Earlier, in a closed-door meeting with House Democrats, the speaker had privately criticized the president over his State of the Union address.“He was a guest in our House chamber, and we treated him with more respect than he treated us,” she told fellow lawmakers, according to a Democratic aide in the room who was not authorized to discuss the private session publicly.Ms. Pelosi also took a dig at Mr. Trump’s plan, detailed on Tuesday, to invest $500 million over 10 years toward the development of new cures for childhood cancer, characterizing it as paltry.“Five hundred million dollars over 10 years — are you kidding me?” she said, according to the aide. “Who gave him that figure? It’s like the cost of his protection of his Mar-a-Lago or something.”Glenn Thrush and Catie Edmondson contributed reporting.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.

Supported byBy Noah Weiland and Michael S. SchmidtWASHINGTON — The routine was always the same. President Trump’s lawyers would drive to heavily secured offices near the National Mall, surrender their cellphones, head into a windowless conference room and resume tense negotiations over whether the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, would interview Mr. Trump.But Mr. Mueller was not always there. Instead, the lawyers tangled with a team of prosecutors, including a little known but formidable adversary: Andrew D. Goldstein, 44, a former Time magazine reporter who is now a lead prosecutor for Mr. Mueller in the investigation into whether the president obstructed justice.Mr. Mueller is often portrayed as the omnipotent fact-gatherer, but it is Mr. Goldstein who has a much more involved, day-to-day role in one of the central lines of investigation.Mr. Goldstein, the lone prosecutor in Mr. Mueller’s office who came directly from a corruption unit at the Justice Department, has conducted every major interview of the president’s advisers. He questioned Donald F. McGahn II, Mr. Trump’s former White House counsel, and Michael D. Cohen, Mr. Trump’s former fixer and lawyer, for dozens of hours. He signed Mr. Cohen’s plea agreement. He conducted grand jury questioning of associates of Roger J. Stone Jr., the former adviser to Mr. Trump who was indicted last month.And he was one of two prosecutors who relayed to the president’s lawyers dozens of questions about Mr. Trump’s behavior in office that Mr. Mueller wanted the president to answer under oath. The questions showed the Mueller team’s hand for the first time: extensive, detailed lines of inquiry that could imperil the presidency.“He knew the facts like I knew the facts,” John Dowd, Mr. Trump’s former lawyer, said of Mr. Goldstein.Over the past two years, Mr. Trump has waged a regular assault on prosecutors and other law enforcement officials investigating him, particularly on Mr. Mueller’s team. But mounting a high-level criminal case on obstruction is rare and complex, and even more difficult when the subject is a sitting president.Now that Mr. Mueller is expected to deliver his report in the coming weeks, Mr. Goldstein’s past as a prosecutor offers a glimpse into how he might be helping the special counsel make a final determination.Interviews with Mr. Goldstein’s colleagues and friends and an examination of his past work reveal someone profoundly at odds with the cowboylike image Mr. Trump has painted of Mr. Mueller’s team. He is one of the few in the group with a career outside the law — in addition to working for Time, Mr. Goldstein was a high school teacher — and is known for his nonconfrontational personality and cautious approach to prosecutions.Before Mr. Mueller hired him, Mr. Goldstein, the son of a former Republican United States attorney, led the corruption unit in the United States attorney’s office in Manhattan as the office made a highly unusual call to announce that it had declined to charge Mayor Bill de Blasio with a variety of crimes. The decision revealed how restrained high-level prosecutors often are in major political investigations.“Investigating and prosecuting public corruption offenses can only go so far,” Mr. Goldstein said in a rare speech around the time he joined the special counsel’s team in 2017. “We can only police the outer bounds of misconduct: the really bad stuff, or at least the stuff that we can prove.”From the beginning, the byzantine structure of the Mueller investigation split its dozen-plus prosecutors into silos and specialties: money laundering, hacking, national security and public corruption.Starting in the summer of 2017, when Mr. Trump’s closest White House advisers were summoned to Mr. Mueller’s offices, they typically met the same calm stare and gravelly voice of the man his former high school students still call Mr. Goldstein.With James L. Quarles III, a former prosecutor in the Watergate investigation, Mr. Goldstein has led the office’s investigation into whether the president’s dismissal of the F.B.I. director, James B. Comey — and Mr. Trump’s repeated assaults on the Justice Department — should be considered obstruction of justice.He has tried to determine the president’s motives in Mr. Comey’s firing during dozens of hours questioning Stephen K. Bannon, Mr. Trump’s former chief strategist, and nearly seven hours with Jared Kushner, Mr. Trump’s senior adviser and son-in-law, in April.As evidence built over two years, Mr. Goldstein functioned as a repository of conversations that Mr. Trump had with lawyers, advisers and top law enforcement officials from early 2017 on. Among Mr. Goldstein’s jewels, according to Mr. Trump’s lawyers: exhaustive notes taken by Annie Donaldson, Mr. McGahn’s former chief of staff, which detailed in real time Mr. Trump’s behavior in the West Wing.Defense lawyers who worked with Mr. Mueller also say that Mr. Goldstein — a donor to President Barack Obama’s campaigns — is the temperamental opposite of prosecutors on the team like Andrew Weissmann, known for a more hostile disposition. When tensions flared during witness interviews, lawyers would take Mr. Goldstein aside to soothe disputes.That did not mean Mr. Goldstein’s work was seamless: While the president’s legal team was initially cooperative with Mr. Goldstein and his fellow investigators, delivering key witnesses and millions of documents, the mood changed when Mr. Trump brought on the longtime Washington lawyer Emmet T. Flood.Mr. Flood promptly imposed restrictions on the West Wing’s participation, including limits to questions for the White House chief of staff, John F. Kelly.Mr. Goldstein acknowledged to associates that Mr. Flood made his life more difficult.Just before Mr. Mueller and some of his earliest hires brought Mr. Goldstein to Washington for job interviews, Mr. Goldstein and the United States attorney’s office in Manhattan faced a political investigation with familiar parallels to Mr. Mueller’s inquiry.Mr. Goldstein was leading a team of prosecutors under Preet Bharara, then the United States attorney in Manhattan, who were investigating whether Mr. de Blasio had committed a series of corruption crimes: bribery, pay-to-play and campaign fraud.Part of the investigation focused on the owner of a scented, rat-repelling trash bag company in Queens who had donated $100,000 to a political advocacy group run by allies of Mr. de Blasio. The owner met with Mr. de Blasio himself, then an aide who set up a meeting between the owner of the company and officials with the city’s parks department. Within a month, he had a $15,000 contract.Mr. Goldstein’s team churned out pages of analysis on evidence they had gathered on at least four different threads. He would take their work to Mr. Bharara in regular meetings, trying to determine if there was sufficient evidence.The office made a highly unusual decision to release a public statement explaining why Mr. de Blasio would not be charged, citing “the high burden of proof” and the “difficulty in proving criminal intent in corruption schemes where there is no evidence of personal profit.”“He was very much measure 10 times, cut once,” said Kan M. Nawaday, a prosecutor who worked with Mr. Goldstein in the corruption unit. “Nine times out of 10, you do a lot of investigation, and you realize the conduct is pretty terrible and foul. But since you’re here to do justice, it isn’t a crime, and you walk away.”Mr. Goldstein has also gone out of his way to attack defendants who repeatedly fail to tell the truth. “And why do people lie?” Mr. Goldstein said in a closing argument against Sheldon Silver, the former Democratic speaker of the New York State Assembly, who had covered up illegal payments from a friend seeking favors and was found guilty on all counts. “Why do people hide things? Why do people keep secrets? Because they have something to hide.”Mr. Goldstein was born during a campaign fraud trial that his father, Jonathan L. Goldstein, was overseeing as the United States attorney in New Jersey. The birth caused an unexpected recess in the trial as the elder Mr. Goldstein took his wife to the hospital. The event made national news.As a toddler, Mr. Goldstein accompanied his father, a Republican appointee, to work, until President Jimmy Carter and the attorney general at the time, Griffin B. Bell, pushed the elder Mr. Goldstein to resign, replacing him with a Democrat. Incensed, he talked with his young children at the dinner table about his dismissal, warning of the perils of a politicized Justice Department.The younger Mr. Goldstein went on to graduate from Princeton and teach government at his high school alma mater, the private Pingry School in Basking Ridge, N.J. He then turned to covering national education policy and medicine at Time magazine, where in 2000 he investigated the deaths of three toddlers in government-funded day care facilities in Tennessee.Mr. Goldstein filed the article, unsettled that he could not do more. He wanted a career that empowered him to prosecute. By 2005, he had graduated from Yale Law School, and by 2010, he was working for Mr. Bharara, who put him on some of the Southern District of New York’s biggest cases.Like Mr. Mueller, Mr. Goldstein wears starched white dress shirts to work and prizes secrecy. Mr. Goldstein told a friend, Tim Lear, that Mr. Mueller even complained to his prosecutors about being photographed near Donald Trump Jr. at an airport.The investigation has been tiring, too. Mr. Goldstein, who used to attend early-morning SoulCycle classes in Manhattan before big trials, got into an accident biking to Mr. Mueller’s offices last year, when he was searching for ways to exercise while working so late.Now that Mr. Mueller’s work could soon be public, Mr. Goldstein’s record, Mr. Bharara said, is a reminder of what the investigation’s limits might be.“You want to have people who have had experience not only bringing high-profile cases, but in walking away from them because it’s the right thing to do,” he said. “The fact that you have a person who’s comfortable saying there’s nothing here, even though there’s a lot of clamor for it, is exactly the kind of person you want.”Adam Goldman contributed reporting from Washington, and Ben Protess and Benjamin Weiser from New York.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.

Supported byThe idea sounds crazy — until suddenly it doesn’t. By Jonathan Rauch and Peter WehnerMr. Rauch is a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and Mr. Wehner is a senior fellow at the Ethics and Public Policy Center.At first glance, in the wake of the roars of approval President Trump received from Republican lawmakers during his State of the Union address on Tuesday night, it may seem fanciful to think the president might be forced out of office by members of his own party. At second glance, too. Yet sometimes things that seem impossible one moment become inevitable the next.We believe that Mr. Trump’s strength among Republicans is more precarious than it appears. For reasons both substantial and practical, we believe his disgorgement by Republicans can happen, might happen — and should happen. Contrary to conventional wisdom, removal by his party would be as healthy for America’s democracy as his removal by the voters, perhaps more so.Being sane, we understand why the prospect of Mr. Trump’s being forced to resign or face impeachment and conviction before the end of his term is unlikely. His losing a renomination fight seems only slightly more likely. After all, his ejection depends on a significant part of the Republican Party turning against him — and right now it belongs to him.Mr. Trump’s Gallup approval rating among Republicans is almost 90 percent and has never dipped significantly below 80 percent. His followers defenestrate Republicans who defy or repudiate him. In the recent midterm elections, Mr. Trump and his backers further consolidated their grip on the party, even as they lost their grip on the House of Representatives.But that is hardly the whole story. Recent developments should deeply worry Republicans, starting with those disastrous midterms. The Republican Party may have held on to the Senate, but Democrats now control the House of Representatives because they won more congressional seats than they had since the post-Watergate tsunami of 1974. They gained seven governorships and nearly 350 state legislature seats. According to exit polls, Democrats improved over their 2014 midterm showing by six or more percentage points among men, women, married voters, unmarried voters, whites, Hispanics, Asians, voters under 30, voters over 59, moderates, independents, urbanites and voters with college degrees.In other words, Republicans lost significant ground among everyone except Mr. Trump’s core base of rural, evangelical and “noncollege” supporters (and even among them, the Republican margin shrank a bit). This happened with unemployment lower than at any time since 1969 and with Republican turnout at its highest level in a century.Mr. Trump’s hard-core base is large enough to dominate the Republican Party, at least for now, but it is not large enough to dominate the country. In the long run, a third or so of the country cannot effectively govern the other two-thirds with an unpopular agenda and a Twitter account. Mr. Trump will almost surely achieve less legislatively in the second half of his term than he did in the first, when Republicans controlled both branches of Congress — and even then their record was not impressive.In short, by consolidating behind Mr. Trump, the Republican Party is isolating and alienating itself from the broader public. Indeed, the Trump paradox is that his support deepens among his most persistent admirers even as it erodes everywhere else. As a result, Mr. Trump headed into his third-year State of the Union message with the second-lowest approval rating in history, despite a roaring economy. (Ronald Reagan, who bested Mr. Trump for this dubious honor in 1983, spoke at the nadir of a deep recession.)Meanwhile, chaos is consuming the Trump administration. The president, cowed by his base, engineered a very unpopular government shutdown for which most people held him (and his party) responsible. He finally agreed to a deal to reopen the government, but only on terms dictated to him by House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, to the dismay of some of his most prominent right-wing supporters. In December, his mercurial decision-making drove his widely respected defense secretary to quit in protest. Scandals and corruption besiege the president on every side. His administration is being investigated by a special counsel, by the Southern District of New York and soon by House Democrats armed with subpoena power. The president’s behavior is becoming more erratic and bizarre, and his own aides have confided that he is “unhinged.”What, then, might flip Mr. Trump’s removal from impossible to inevitable? The most likely possibility is also the most obvious: the collapse of his support among center-right Republicans who so far have wavered but not completely turned against him.Whether this happens depends on future events, the most ominous of which would be the discovery of clear criminality by the president or those closest to him (including family members). Another inflection point might be an economic recession. A third might be Mr. Trump’s mismanagement of a crisis. A fourth would be the continued deterioration of the president’s behavior. (By most accounts the president feels less constrained than ever.) And yet another might be the prospect that he will lead his party to comprehensive defeat in 2020, especially if he is weakened by a primary challenge. We would be surprised if one or more of these developments did not occur, and a combination is easily within the bounds of probability.Watergate showed how a president’s standing can cave in. Congressional Republicans supported and protected President Richard Nixon until the Watergate tapes provided irrefutable evidence of his wrongdoing. Then they withdrew their support and he resigned to avoid impeachment and conviction. There may be no single smoking-gun tape in Mr. Trump’s case, but the sheer weight of financial and ethical wrongdoing could become too much, even for many Republicans. And today’s Republican politicians, while more partisan than in Nixon’s day, remain acutely sensitive to public opinion. If some combination of criminality, incompetence or crisis moves the center-right against the president, his end could come quickly.If that happens, Mr. Trump might step down to avoid impeachment, particularly if he were promised clemency for himself and his family. Short of outright resignation or removal, he could suffer enough defections so that he might announce he will not seek re-election. That would be a half-measure, but one that would allow the post-Trump conversation to begin. The Johnson-Nixon era provides precedents for all of these scenarios.We understand the argument that the best result would be for voters, rather than the Republican Party, to do the job of removing Mr. Trump. But we believe this argument neglects an important reason that Mr. Trump’s removal by his party would be at least as healthy, democratically speaking: It would reinvigorate the idea that political parties exist not just as vehicles for politicians but also as protectors of vital democratic norms.The most troubling — and from our point of view the most disappointing — development of the Trump era is not the president’s own election and subsequent behavior; it is the institutional corruption, weakness and self-betrayal of the Republican Party. The party has abandoned its core commitments to constitutional norms, to conservative principles and even to basic decency. It has allowed itself to be hijacked by a reality television star who is a pathological liar, emotionally unsteady and accountable only to himself. And Republicans have embraced presidential conduct that, had it been engaged in by a Democrat, they would have denounced as corrupt, incompetent and even treasonous.We disagree with those who think that Mr. Trump’s removal by his own party would weaken democratic accountability; if anything, the opposite is true. The United States has only two major political parties, and it needs both to be healthy, rational and small-d democratic. They are our system’s most durable and accountable political institutions and they comprise its first and most important line of defense against political demagogues and conscience-free charlatans. By reasserting its institutional prerogatives — by setting limits to the depredations and recklessness it will accept — the Republican Party would be acting to deter hijackers in the future. In doing so, it would defend our democracy, not weaken it.In any event, the Republican gamble that the party can ride out the Trump era without suffering tremendous damage is looking worse every day. As Republican lawmakers have privately told us and others, they know Mr. Trump will not change. The incontestability of his psychological defects and character flaws has finally sunk in. What remains to be done is for Republicans to prevent what many of them privately know is quite likely for their party if Mr. Trump remains their leader: a crash landing.In that sense, Mr. Trump’s presidency has become to the Republican Party what Vietnam was to President Lyndon Johnson. By 1965, Johnson saw Vietnam for the unwinnable quagmire that it was, but he feared and ultimately bowed to the short-term consequences of withdrawing. “It’s like being in an airplane and I have to choose between crashing the plane or jumping out,” he told his wife. “I do not have a parachute.” We know today that Johnson made the wrong decision.Increasingly, it is dawning on Republicans that they are making the same mistake. But they do have a parachute, one named Mike Pence. The vice president would continue many of Mr. Trump’s policies, if that’s what they want, but potentially without all the dysfunction, a result that conservatives could live with and that the voters could judge for themselves in 2020.In a recent column about the sudden possibility that Britain would change its mind about Brexit, the economist Anatole Kaletsky remarked: “In times of political turmoil, events can move from impossible to inevitable without even passing through improbable.” The same is true of Trexit.Of course, Mr. Trump’s exit is a long shot. In democracies, sick political parties usually need years in the wilderness before they can heal. We have not talked ourselves into being confident, or even particularly optimistic, that the Republican Party will treat its own fever. But if there is one thing that the age of Trump has clarified, it is that “unimaginable” and “impossible” are not at all the same thing.Jonathan Rauch (@jon_rauch) is a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and the author of “Political Realism: How Hacks, Machines, Big Money and Back-Room Deals Can Strengthen American Democracy.” Peter Wehner (@Peter Wehner), a senior fellow at the Ethics and Public Policy Center, served in the previous three Republican administrations and is a contributing opinion writer.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported byGood Monday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)A majority of Americans are increasingly open to raising taxes on the wealthy. Lawmakers like Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and Senator Bernie Sanders have proposed revolutionary ways of reducing wealth inequality. But Andrew writes that there are other ways of bridging the gap — ways that stand a chance of becoming law.Start with the estate tax. Gary Cohn, the former White House economic adviser, once said, “Only morons pay the estate tax.” Andrew recommends starting there, writing that no fix could work without this. One solution: taxing inherited property at its current worth to capture gains in value made over decades. According to the Congressional Budget Office, closing this loophole could raise more than $650 billion over a decade.Raise capital gains rates for the wealthy. Andrew suggests introducing two new tax brackets — say, a marginal 30 percent bracket for those earning over $5 million and a 35 percent bracket for over $15 million — so the U.S. could raise money without discouraging investment.Close the carried-interest loophole. Current tax law allows executives at investment firms to have bonuses taxed as capital gains, not ordinary income. Scrapping that — an idea that President Trump has supported — has clear appeal to Americans’ basic sense of fairness.Reconsider breaks for charitable giving. At a minimum, Andrew writes, “we ought to consider whether the wealthy should be allowed to take deductions when they move money to their own foundations, or whether they should only take a deduction when the money is spent.” Support the I.R.S. “The agency is so underfunded that the chance an individual gets audited is minuscule,” Andrew writes.President Trump has delayed his own March 1 deadline to raise tariffs on Chinese goods, Ana Swanson and Alan Rappeport of the NYT report:• Mr. Trump cited “substantial progress” in trade talks between American and Chinese officials.• He said that negotiators had forged a compromise on key issues, including intellectual property and the trade of agriculture and energy products.• The president also expects to meet with President Xi Jinping of China to finalize a deal.“The extension will prevent the United States from increasing tariffs on $200 billion of Chinese exports to 25 percent from 10 percent on March 2,” Ms. Swanson and Mr. Rappeport write. “The delay, which Mr. Trump had dangled as a possibility in recent weeks, is likely to calm volatile financial markets and reassure business owners who depend on China.”But there is still uncertainty. “In a hint of how fluid the talks remain, the two sides did not sign an official agreement and the White House did not release details on any agreements,” Ms. Swanson and Mr. Rappeport write. The Chinese state news agency Xinhua says that “new uncertainties” could emerge, and analysts think trade tensions won’t go away.Tensions are reportedly high inside the White House.  Mr. Trump and his top trade negotiator, Robert Lighthizer, “have grown increasingly frustrated with each other,” Bloomberg reports, citing unidentified sources. Mr. Trump was apparently embarrassed when Mr. Lightizer corrected him in front of the Chinese delegation, while Mr. Lightizer “has been growing irritated with Mr. Trump’s interventions.”The British prime minister announced yesterday that a final vote on her Brexit deal that had been scheduled for this week will now take place by March 12 — just 17 days before Britain is scheduled to leave the E.U.She is trying to buy time, so that she can secure tweaks to the agreement that will make it palatable to British lawmakers. “We still have it within our grasp to leave the European Union with a deal on the 29th of March,” she told reporters. The Confederation of British Industry accused her of “running down the clock.”Parliament could undermine her game plan. Mrs. May is trying to keep the prospect of a no-deal Brexit on the table, hoping that will convince lawmakers to support her deal. Yet a proposal that will go to vote in Parliament this week “would force the government to hand power to Parliament if no U.K.-E.U. withdrawal deal has been approved by March 13,” the FT notes.The E.U. is reportedly considering a delay. “The European Union is considering telling Theresa May that if she can’t get her Brexit deal through Parliament and wants to delay the departure date, the country will have to stay in the bloc until 2021,” Bloomberg reports.The U.S. economy looks precarious, thanks to an enormous public debt and turbulent politics. But as Peter Goodman of the NYT points out, the dollar remains the world’s haven, at least when it comes to currencies.• “Because banks cannot risk jeopardizing their access to the plumbing of the dollar-based global financial network, they have taken pains to steer clear of nations and companies deemed pariahs in Washington.”• “In a clear indication that the American currency has been gaining power, dollar-denominated lending to borrowers outside the United States, excluding banks, soared between late 2007 and early 2018, according to the Bank for International Settlements.”• “The Chinese government’s restrictions on taking money out of the country and its alarming detentions of foreigners — often in parallel with geopolitical scrapes — have tested the appeal of holding money embossed with the image of Chairman Mao.”• “A series of crises within the 19 countries that share the euro has provoked more animosity than unity, revealing a foundational defect: The euro is a common currency lacking a common political structure that can guarantee a robust response when trouble arises.”• “‘There is no alternative to the dollar,’ said Mark Blyth, an international political economist at Brown University.”Mobile World Congress, the world’s largest mobile technology event, takes place in Barcelona this week. Here’s what will be grabbing headlines:• So much 5G. The next-generation wireless standard has been making political as well as technological headlines recently. Carriers will announce their plans, while countries continue to weigh the security implications of using Huawei hardware in their networks.• Folding phones. Samsung was first with its Galaxy Fold. Now Huawei has unveiled its own folding phone, the Mate X, and other manufacturers are expected to follow suit.• Eye-watering prices. The $1,000 iPhone X seemed expensive initially. But experimental smartphones like the Galaxy Fold and Mate X cost twice as much. (Don’t worry: Tim Culpan of Bloomberg Opinion argues that you aren’t expected to buy one just yet.)Britain’s Financial Conduct Authority says that financial services companies in the country experienced a fivefold rise in data breaches last year, the FT reports:• “Companies reported 145 breaches to the F.C.A. last year, up from 25 in 2017, with investment banks reporting the highest number of incidents at 34, up from just three the previous year.”• “Last year’s jump in reported attacks can partly be explained by the introduction of the E.U.’s General Data Protection Regulation last May, which requires businesses to identify and report cyber attacks within 72 hours or face penalties.”• “But executives at major banks and payments companies said they were now under almost constant fire from attackers. A chief information officer at one U.K. bank said: ‘We are seeing a lot more threat actors knocking at the front door.’”The big winner of last night’s Academy Awards was “Green Book,” which took the best picture trophy. Commentators regarded the decision as a deliberate snub of Netflix, which had pushed aggressively for “Roma.”.Netflix didn’t play by the rules. The company spent millions promoting “Roma,” but refused to let it run exclusively in movie theaters for an industry-standard three months. (It ran for three weeks before being streamed.) Netflix also refused to release box-office data.That annoyed Hollywood traditionalists. Several theater chains refused to show “Roma.” Steven Spielberg is among those who think Netflix films shouldn’t contend for an Oscar: “Once you commit to a television format, you’re a TV movie,” he has said. “You certainly, if it’s a good show, deserve an Emmy — but not an Oscar.”The reluctance will be tested. “That debate is only going to grow more contentious as Netflix commissions more and more films from A-list filmmakers,” Gregg Kilday of The Hollywood Reporter writes.Ev Williams, one of Twitter’s co-founders, is stepping down from its board after 12 years.AutoNation hired Carl Liebert as its new C.E.O., succeeding Mike Jackson.Tony Nicely stepped down as C.E.O. of Berkshire Hathaway’s Geico insurer last year, Warren Buffett disclosed on Saturday.Caesars Entertainment reportedly offered to let Carl Icahn help pick its next C.E.O.The White House nominated Kelly Kraft, the U.S. ambassador to Canada, as its pick for U.S. ambassador to the U.N.The British insurer Legal &amp; General named Michelle Scrimgeour as chief of its investment management unit.Deals• Barrick Gold unveiled a $17.8 billion unsolicited takeover bid for Newmont Mining. (Barrick)• Roche said it planned to buy Spark, a gene therapy company, for $4.3 billion. (Reuters)• The Chinese insurer Ping An reportedly plans to stage an I.P.O. for its cloud-computing unit at an $8 billion valuation. (Bloomberg)• KKR is reportedly considering buying Walmart’s Asda grocery unit. (Sunday Times)• The exercise equipment maker Peloton has reportedly picked Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase to lead its I.P.O. (Bloomberg)Politics and policy• Before a meeting with Kim Jong-un this week, President Trump said North Korea could enjoy fast economic growth if it gives up its nuclear weapons program. The U.S. may declare an end to the Korean War as part of the talks. (Bloomberg, NYT)• The Trump administration is denying more H-1B visa applications. (WSJ)• A sentencing memo from the special counsel’s office argued that Paul Manafort “repeatedly and brazenly” broke the law. (NYT)• Meet Karl Racine, the official quietly coordinating states’ legal challenges to Trump administration policies. (Politico)Tech• After an investigation revealed that popular apps were sharing personal user data with Facebook, many of the companies involved have curtailed that flow of information. (WSJ)• Why investors can’t ignore the tech battle between China and America. (Barron’s)• Bitcoin saved Carlos Hernández’s family. Could it save Venezuela? (NYT Op-Ed)• How one NYT writer tried to overcome his reliance on a smartphone. (NYT)• Inside the rise and fall of a multimillion-dollar Airbnb scheme. (NYT)Best of the rest• Bad news: Over three-quarters of business economists expect a U.S. recession by the end of 2021. (Bloomberg)• Good news: The Fed says that the U.S. financial system is “substantially” safer than before the 2008 financial crisis. (WSJ)• How America learned to love deficits and debt. (Upshot)• Chinese entrepreneurs are becoming increasingly wary of Beijing. (NYT)• ICYMI: Here’s what Warren Buffett said in his annual letter to Berkshire Hathaway shareholders. (DealBook)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.

Supported byFrom South Beach to Little Haiti and beyond, the metropolitan Miami area has plenty to offer everyone from beachgoers and music lovers to gallery hoppers and foodies.By Brett SokolThere was a time when it wasn’t unusual to hear visitors use South Beach as shorthand for the entire Miami metropolitan area. The confusion was understandable — for those weekend warriors there was little reason to venture beyond the city of Miami Beach’s telegenic, Art Deco-emblazoned, southernmost tip. No more. South Beach’s famously louche night life has fanned out across Biscayne Bay and onto the mainland, along with cutting-edge art galleries, top-notch restaurants and funky but chic boutiques. The growing pains are unavoidable — traffic jams may sprout up anywhere, and some residents of previously off-the-radar neighborhoods aren’t exactly thrilled with the rent hikes that come with being “discovered.” The upside? An already dizzying multiculturalism has only gotten richer: Little Haiti and Little Havana now find themselves competing for attention and influence with Little Venezuela and Little Moscow. As for the actual white, sandy stretches of South Beach, they remain as stunning as ever, and a meeting spot for locals from Greater Miami’s far-flung corners to strut their barely clothed stuff. The Design District, in the city of Miami proper, is chockablock with luxury retailers, from Louis Vuitton to Versace. Amid these temples of conspicuous consumption are two of Miami’s newest museums, right next to each other, and both free. The Institute of Contemporary Art, Miami pairs a peaceful outdoor sculpture garden with an indoor array of heady conceptual artwork from around the globe. But it’s the spotlight on local talent that often steals the show, from the viscerally powerful minimalist paintings of the late Darby Bannard to the hypnotic, abstract canvases of a relative newcomer on the art scene, Tomm El-Saieh, who is making waves far beyond South Florida. Next door, the de la Cruz Collection displays the personal holdings of the collectors Rosa and Carlos de la Cruz in three high-ceilinged floors filled with rotating displays of avant-garde heavyweights like Isa Genzken and Dana Schutz; permanent space has been set aside for the works of the Cuban-American experimentalist Felix Gonzalez-Torres. Around the corner, two smaller and scrappier organizations — Locust Projects and Swampspace — feature installations from tomorrow’s art stars today.“If it were any fresher it would still be swimming in the ocean” is the operating principle at Miami Beach’s Stiltsville Fish Bar, with its faux-beach shack layout and locally sourced menu. If that combination wasn’t apparent from the claw-foot bathtubs full of ice and the daily catch, the waiters can inform you of the name of the boat that brought in a particular fish — which isn’t quite as advanced a feat as it sounds, since many of those vessels dock across the street at the Sunset Harbour marina. Consider it an opportunity to sample some cast-iron-seared, flaky tripletail ($34), or the similarly native and naturally sweet Florida pompano ($37). Leave room for Key lime pie ($12), a refreshing way to cap off dinner as the restaurant’s movable front wall is raised to catch the evening breeze and a sunset view.The Rose Bar in the lobby of the Delano Hotel remains an elegant, curtain-lined throwback to the Beach’s 1990s fashion-model-centric heyday, and an excellent spot for watching a crowd that’s more than ready for its close-up. If paying $20 for a basic cocktail ruins the fun, go to Mac’s Club Deuce, which revels in its colorful dive-bar status, tracing its origins back to 1964 up through today’s mix of bikers and slumming socialites. Don’t even think of ordering an appletini.Late morning is the perfect time to hit the beach, before it gets too hot and the main drag of the shoreline — running roughly parallel to Ocean Drive from 5th to 15th Street — fills up. But if serenity is what you’re after, walk north. There’s mile after mile of relatively empty sand beneath the same soothing, baby-blue sky, with an accompanying soundtrack of gently crashing surf. The hardpacked sand in some stretches is perfect for jogging, while a boardwalk runs all the way up to 46th Street. If the adjoining Art Deco District intrigues you, the Miami Design Preservation League leads guided tours ($25) there every morning at 10:30 a.m. Afterward, head to the outdoor sandwich bar La Sandwicherie, a French import with sandwiches on melt-in-your-mouth croissants ($8).Lincoln Road’s time as an offbeat shopping burg is long gone, now submerged in a sea of chain stores and tourist-trap restaurants. Still, a few of its tenants from that era are hanging on, including the family-owned Frieze ice cream shop, the Books &amp; Books bookstore, the New World Symphony (now ensconced in a swanky new building, but still performing with their signature youthful brio), and the ArtCenter/South Florida, which has been offering affordable studios to emerging local artists since long before Art Basel arrived. Visitors are encouraged to walk the hallways of the ArtCenter’s aquarium-like studio complex — resident artists hang their work in their studio windows and many are happy to discuss their latest projects. But if their doors are closed and you see them hunched over canvases, do not tap on the glass. They don’t like it any more than goldfish do.Miami has become justifiably famous for having one of the country’s most vibrant art scenes outside New York City and Los Angeles. Ground zero for much of this activity has migrated north from the Wynwood neighborhood and into Little Haiti and Little River. To see the artwork made by some of this milieu’s most impressive figures start at the Emerson Dorsch gallery, whose homegrown roster embraces old lions like Robert Thiele, as well as a younger generation that includes Jenny Brillhart, Robert Chambers and Mette Tommerup. If there’s a common thread binding the best of this “Miami school,” it’s in the desire to create tactile objects — whether a painting or a keep-your-distance, spinning helicopter blade — that don’t need accompanying wall text to rivet onlookers. Continue winding your way north with stops at Nina Johnson, Primary Projects, Pan American Art Projects, Spinello Projects, Tile Blush, and the Fountainhead Studios.Little Haiti is also home to two specialty bookstores, each as much a cultural locus as a retail outlet. Exile Books focuses on artist’s books — books conceived as artworks to be looked at and held as much as read, from photo-copied fanzines to hand-bound hardcover editions. Libreri Mapou serves the Haitian diaspora, which means not only otherwise hard-to-find Creole-language books and newspapers (as well as their English translations), but also artworks and CDs imported from Port-au-Prince.Find a table at the Design District’s Mandolin Aegean Bistro, where Greek and Turkish cuisines share the menu, and the low-key vibe matches the demure, blue- and white-trimmed 1940s bungalow that houses this restaurant. As intimate as the dining room may be, head for the tree-enclosed backyard patio and dine beneath the stars. To start? A platter of tzatziki dips and tirokafteri spreads with vegetables grown on the premises ($22) or the grilled sirloin kefte meatballs ($16). For a main dish, try a lamb burger ($19) or the beef souvlakia ($32).Ball &amp; Chain dates itself as a Little Havana nightclub all the way back to 1935, complete with storied concerts by Count Basie and Billie Holiday. Yet while the vintage décor suggests either performer might reappear at any moment, evenings here are no mere nostalgia-fest. Some of Miami’s strongest salsa bands like Conjunto Progreso share the stage here with more leftfield outfits like Palo! and the Spam Allstars, who toss funk and psychedelia into their updates on traditional Cuban grooves. On a good night, the end result is the same: a dance floor full of spinning, sweaty bodies taking the occasional break to refuel with an ice-cold mojito before returning to the conga-driven fray.Miami’s night life runs until dawn. Indeed, many clubs are practically deserted before midnight. Wynwood offers The Electric Pickle, where the dimly lit, bare-bones setting matches the mood of D.J.s who favor stripped-down house music and head-snapping breakbeats, as well as Gramps, a similarly no-frills bar where post-punk bands often set up to perform live in the open-air backyard. Both spots offer a relaxed mood that’s miles away — in more than just distance — from the velvet-roped precincts of South Beach’s clubland.For nearly 30 years, veteran newspaper editors here have been sending their cub reporters on walking tours with Dr. Paul George, an academic and former president of the Florida Historical Society, famed for knowing where Miami’s bodies are buried (literally so, in the case of his “Ghosts of Miami” Halloween cemetery tour). Steeped in local lore, and armed with dry wit, Dr. George’s tours are now offered under the auspices of the HistoryMiami museum. The locales change from month to month, but whether the setting is a cruise up the Miami River ($60), the site of a string of hair-raising shootouts during the 1980s cocaine cowboy era, or a stroll through the jasmine-scented streets of Coconut Grove ($15) — once a notorious pirate's cove, later the first part of modern Miami to be hacked out of the surrounding jungle — you’re bound to learn some fascinating chapters of this city’s past.Don’t leave before getting out on the water for a manatee’s-eye view of Miami. South Beach Kayak offers kayak rentals ($30 for two hours) and the ease of launching yourself onto the bay just outside their front door. (They’ll even hold your car keys in case you capsize.) Paddle southwest for a view of the downtown skyline, or head north and hug the shoreline for a look at some of Miami Beach’s priciest and (except for your prying eyes) most secluded real estate. Yes, that’s Lenny Kravitz sitting on his deck. No, he most definitely is not motioning for you to come ashore. It’s hard to beat the oceanfront view at the 357-room Cadillac Hotel in mid-Miami Beach, and recently restored to the architect Roy France’s original 1940 Art Deco design. Rooms from $440; cadillachotelmiamibeach.com. If you don’t need to be within walking distance of the sand and surf, consider the mainland’s Vagabond Hotel, a 1950s roadside inn given a retro-chic overhaul. Rooms from $189; thevagabondhotelmiami.com.Airbnb options abound, and many are far more affordable than nearby hotels, especially at the height of the winter season. But such short-term rentals are banned in most of Miami Beach: City officials there have been engaged in a legal civil war with many listings, even turning off the water for repeat offenders. Best to stick to offerings within the city of Miami, where you can expect to pay $175 and up for a one-bedroom unit near the Design District, and $250 and up downtown. Airbnb.com.Follow NY Times Travel on Twitter, Instagram and Facebook. Get weekly updates from our Travel Dispatch newsletter, with tips on traveling smarter, destination coverage and photos from all over the world. 

FeatureComputer programming once had much better gender balance than it does today. What went wrong?CreditCreditJoseph C. Towler, Jr.Supported byBy Clive ThompsonAs a teenager in Maryland in the 1950s, Mary Allen Wilkes had no plans to become a software pioneer — she dreamed of being a litigator. One day in junior high in 1950, though, her geography teacher surprised her with a comment: “Mary Allen, when you grow up, you should be a computer programmer!” Wilkes had no idea what a programmer was; she wasn’t even sure what a computer was. Relatively few Americans were. The first digital computers had been built barely a decade earlier at universities and in government labs.By the time she was graduating from Wellesley College in 1959, she knew her legal ambitions were out of reach. Her mentors all told her the same thing: Don’t even bother applying to law school. “They said: ‘Don’t do it. You may not get in. Or if you get in, you may not get out. And if you get out, you won’t get a job,’ ” she recalls. If she lucked out and got hired, it wouldn’t be to argue cases in front of a judge. More likely, she would be a law librarian, a legal secretary, someone processing trusts and estates.But Wilkes remembered her junior high school teacher’s suggestion. In college, she heard that computers were supposed to be the key to the future. She knew that the Massachusetts Institute of Technology had a few of them. So on the day of her graduation, she had her parents drive her over to M.I.T. and marched into the school’s employment office. “Do you have any jobs for computer programmers?” she asked. They did, and they hired her.It might seem strange now that they were happy to take on a random applicant with absolutely no experience in computer programming. But in those days, almost nobody had any experience writing code. The discipline did not yet really exist; there were vanishingly few college courses in it, and no majors. (Stanford, for example, didn’t create a computer-science department until 1965.) So instead, institutions that needed programmers just used aptitude tests to evaluate applicants’ ability to think logically. Wilkes happened to have some intellectual preparation: As a philosophy major, she had studied symbolic logic, which can involve creating arguments and inferences by stringing together and/or statements in a way that resembles coding.Wilkes quickly became a programming whiz. She first worked on the IBM 704, which required her to write in an abstruse “assembly language.” (A typical command might be something like “LXA A, K,” telling the computer to take the number in Location A of its memory and load it into to the “Index Register” K.) Even getting the program into the IBM 704 was a laborious affair. There were no keyboards or screens; Wilkes had to write a program on paper and give it to a typist, who translated each command into holes on a punch card. She would carry boxes of commands to an “operator,” who then fed a stack of such cards into a reader. The computer executed the program and produced results, typed out on a printer.Often enough, Wilkes’s code didn’t produce the result she wanted. So she had to pore over her lines of code, trying to deduce her mistake, stepping through each line in her head and envisioning how the machine would execute it — turning her mind, as it were, into the computer. Then she would rewrite the program. The capacity of most computers at the time was quite limited; the IBM 704 could handle only about 4,000 “words” of code in its memory. A good programmer was concise and elegant and never wasted a word. They were poets of bits. “It was like working logic puzzles — big, complicated logic puzzles,” Wilkes says. “I still have a very picky, precise mind, to a fault. I notice pictures that are crooked on the wall.”What sort of person possesses that kind of mentality? Back then, it was assumed to be women. They had already played a foundational role in the prehistory of computing: During World War II, women operated some of the first computational machines used for code-breaking at Bletchley Park in Britain. In the United States, by 1960, according to government statistics, more than one in four programmers were women. At M.I.T.’s Lincoln Labs in the 1960s, where Wilkes worked, she recalls that most of those the government categorized as “career programmers” were female. It wasn’t high-status work — yet.In 1961, Wilkes was assigned to a prominent new project, the creation of the LINC. As one of the world’s first interactive personal computers, it would be a breakthrough device that could fit in a single office or lab. It would even have its own keyboard and screen, so it could be programmed more quickly, without awkward punch cards or printouts. The designers, who knew they could make the hardware, needed Wilkes to help write the software that would let a user control the computer in real time.For two and a half years, she and a team toiled away at flow charts, pondering how the circuitry functioned, how to let people communicate with it. “We worked all these crazy hours; we ate all kinds of terrible food,” she says. There was sexism, yes, especially in the disparity between how men and women were paid and promoted, but Wilkes enjoyed the relative comity that existed among the men and women at Lincoln Labs, the sense of being among intellectual peers. “We were a bunch of nerds,” Wilkes says dryly. “We were a bunch of geeks. We dressed like geeks. I was completely accepted by the men in my group.” When they got an early prototype of the LINC working, it solved a fiendish data-processing problem for a biologist, who was so excited that he danced a happy jig around the machine.In late 1964, after Wilkes returned from traveling around the world for a year, she was asked to finish writing the LINC’s operating system. But the lab had been relocated to St. Louis, and she had no desire to move there. Instead, a LINC was shipped to her parents’ house in Baltimore. Looming in the front hall near the foot of the stairs, a tall cabinet of whirring magnetic tapes across from a refrigerator-size box full of circuitry, it was an early glimpse of a sci-fi future: Wilkes was one of the first people on the planet to have a personal computer in her home. (Her father, an Episcopal clergyman, was thrilled. “He bragged about it,” she says. “He would tell anybody who would listen, ‘I bet you don’t have a computer in your living room.’ ”) Before long, LINC users around the world were using her code to program medical analyses and even create a chatbot that interviewed patients about their symptoms.But even as Wilkes established herself as a programmer, she still craved a life as a lawyer. “I also really finally got to the point where I said, ‘I don’t think I want to do this for the rest of my life,’ ” she says. Computers were intellectually stimulating but socially isolating. In 1972, she applied and got in to Harvard Law School, and after graduating, she spent the next four decades as a lawyer. “I absolutely loved it,” she says.Today Wilkes is retired and lives in Cambridge, Mass. White-haired at 81, she still has the precise mannerisms and the ready, beaming smile that can be seen in photos from the ’60s, when she posed, grinning, beside the LINC. She told me that she occasionally gives talks to young students studying computer science. But the industry they’re heading into is, astonishingly, less populated with women — and by many accounts less welcoming to them — than it was in Wilkes’s day. In 1960, when she started working at M.I.T., the proportion of women in computing and mathematical professions (which are grouped together in federal government data) was 27 percent. It reached 35 percent in 1990. But, in the government’s published figures, that was the peak. The numbers fell after that, and by 2013, women were down to 26 percent — below their share in 1960.When Wilkes talks to today’s young coders, they are often shocked to learn that women were among the field’s earliest, towering innovators and once a common sight in corporate America. “Their mouths are agape,” Wilkes says. “They have absolutely no idea.”[Why is it so hard to make a website for the government? Read about the woman who founded Code For America.]Almost 200 years ago, the first person to be what we would now call a coder was, in fact, a woman: Lady Ada Lovelace. As a young mathematician in England in 1833, she met Charles Babbage, an inventor who was struggling to design what he called the Analytical Engine, which would be made of metal gears and able to execute if/then commands and store information in memory. Enthralled, Lovelace grasped the enormous potential of a device like this. A computer that could modify its own instructions and memory could be far more than a rote calculator, she realized. To prove it, Lovelace wrote what is often regarded as the first computer program in history, an algorithm with which the Analytical Engine would calculate the Bernoulli sequence of numbers. (She wasn’t shy about her accomplishments: “That brain of mine is something more than merely mortal; as time will show,” she once wrote.) But Babbage never managed to build his computer, and Lovelace, who died of cancer at 36, never saw her code executed.When digital computers finally became a practical reality in the 1940s, women were again pioneers in writing software for the machines. At the time, men in the computing industry regarded writing code as a secondary, less interesting task. The real glory lay in making the hardware. Software? “That term hadn’t yet been invented,” says Jennifer S. Light, a professor at M.I.T. who studies the history of science and technology.This dynamic was at work in the development of the first programmable digital computer in the United States, the Electronic Numerical Integrator and Computer, or Eniac, during the 1940s. Funded by the military, the thing was a behemoth, weighing more than 30 tons and including 17,468 vacuum tubes. Merely getting it to work was seen as the heroic, manly engineering feat. In contrast, programming it seemed menial, even secretarial. Women had long been employed in the scut work of doing calculations. In the years leading up to the Eniac, many companies bought huge electronic tabulating machines — quite useful for tallying up payroll, say — from companies like IBM; women frequently worked as the punch-card operators for these overgrown calculators. When the time came to hire technicians to write instructions for the Eniac, it made sense, to the men in charge, to pick an all-female team: Kathleen McNulty, Jean Jennings, Betty Snyder, Marlyn Wescoff, Frances Bilas and Ruth Lichterman. The men would figure out what they wanted Eniac to do; the women “programmed” it to execute the instructions.“We could diagnose troubles almost down to the individual vacuum tube,” Jennings later told an interviewer for the IEEE Annals of the History of Computing. Jennings, who grew up as the tomboy daughter of low-income parents near a Missouri community of 104 people, studied math at college. “Since we knew both the application and the machine, we learned to diagnose troubles as well as, if not better than, the engineer.”The Eniac women were among the first coders to discover that software never works right the first time — and that a programmer’s main work, really, is to find and fix the bugs. Their innovations included some of software’s core concepts. Betty Snyder realized that if you wanted to debug a program that wasn’t running correctly, it would help to have a “break point,” a moment when you could stop a program midway through its run. To this day, break points are a key part of the debugging process.In 1946, Eniac’s creators wanted to show off the computer to a group of leaders in science, technology and the military. They asked Jennings and Snyder to write a program that calculated missile trajectories. After weeks of intense effort, they and their team had a working program, except for one glitch: It was supposed to stop when the missile landed, but for some reason it kept running. The night before the demo, Snyder suddenly intuited the problem. She went to work early the next day, flipped a single switch inside the Eniac and eliminated the bug. “Betty could do more logical reasoning while she was asleep than most people can do awake,” Jennings later said. Nonetheless, the women got little credit for their work. At that first official demonstration to show off Eniac, the male project managers didn’t mention, much less introduce, the women.After the war, as coding jobs spread from the military into the private sector, women remained in the coding vanguard, doing some of the highest-profile work. The pioneering programmer Grace Hopper is frequently credited with creating the first “compiler,” a program that lets users create programming languages that more closely resemble regular written words: A coder could thus write the English-like code, and the compiler would do the hard work of turning it into ones and zeros for the computer. Hopper also developed the “Flowmatic” language for nontechnical businesspeople. Later, she advised the team that created the Cobol language, which became widely used by corporations. Another programmer from the team, Jean E. Sammet, continued to be influential in the language’s development for decades. Fran Allen was so expert in optimizing Fortran, a popular language for performing scientific calculations, that she became the first female IBM fellow.When the number of coding jobs exploded in the ’50s and ’60s as companies began relying on software to process payrolls and crunch data, men had no special advantage in being hired. As Wilkes had discovered, employers simply looked for candidates who were logical, good at math and meticulous. And in this respect, gender stereotypes worked in women’s favor: Some executives argued that women’s traditional expertise at painstaking activities like knitting and weaving manifested precisely this mind-set. (The 1968 book “Your Career in Computers” stated that people who like “cooking from a cookbook” make good programmers.)The field rewarded aptitude: Applicants were often given a test (typically one involving pattern recognition), hired if they passed it and trained on the job, a process that made the field especially receptive to neophytes. “Know Nothing About Computers? Then We’ll Teach You (and Pay You While Doing So),” one British ad promised in 1965. In a 1957 recruiting pitch in the United States, IBM’s brochure titled “My Fair Ladies” specifically encouraged women to apply for coding jobs.Such was the hunger for programming talent that a young black woman named Arlene Gwendolyn Lee could become one of the early female programmers in Canada, despite the open discrimination of the time. Lee was half of a biracial couple to whom no one would rent, so she needed money to buy a house. According to her son, who has described his mother’s experience in a blog post, Lee showed up at a firm after seeing its ad for data processing and systems analytics jobs in a Toronto newspaper sometime in the early 1960s. Lee persuaded the employers, who were all white, to let her take the coding aptitude test. When she placed in the 99th percentile, the supervisors grilled her with questions before hiring her. “I had it easy,” she later told her son. “The computer didn’t care that I was a woman or that I was black. Most women had it much harder.”Elsie Shutt learned to code during her college summers while working for the military at the Aberdeen Proving Ground, an Army facility in Maryland. In 1953, while taking time off from graduate school, she was hired to code for Raytheon, where the programmer work force “was about 50 percent men and 50 percent women,” she told Janet Abbate, a Virginia Tech historian and author of the 2012 book “Recoding Gender.” “And it really amazed me that these men were programmers, because I thought it was women’s work!”When Shutt had a child in 1957, state law required her to leave her job; the ’50s and ’60s may have been welcoming to full-time female coders, but firms were unwilling to offer part-time work, even to superb coders. So Shutt founded Computations Inc., a consultancy that produced code for corporations. She hired stay-at-home mothers as part-time employees; if they didn’t already know how to code, she trained them. They cared for their kids during the day, then coded at night, renting time on local computers. “What it turned into was a feeling of mission,” Shutt told Abbate, “in providing work for women who were talented and did good work and couldn’t get part-time jobs.” Business Week called the Computations work force the “pregnant programmers” in a 1963 article illustrated with a picture of a baby in a bassinet in a home hallway, with the mother in the background, hard at work writing software. (The article’s title: “Mixing Math and Motherhood.”)By 1967, there were so many female programmers that Cosmopolitan magazine published an article about “The Computer Girls,” accompanied by pictures of beehived women at work on computers that evoked the control deck of the U.S.S. Enterprise. The story noted that women could make $20,000 a year doing this work (or more than $150,000 in today’s money). It was the rare white-collar occupation in which women could thrive. Nearly every other highly trained professional field admitted few women; even women with math degrees had limited options: teaching high school math or doing rote calculations at insurance firms.“Women back then would basically go, ‘Well, if I don’t do programming, what else will I do?’ ” Janet Abbate says. “The situation was very grim for women’s opportunities.”[The Yoda of Silicon Valley]If we want to pinpoint a moment when women began to be forced out of programming, we can look at one year: 1984. A decade earlier, a study revealed that the numbers of men and women who expressed an interest in coding as a career were equal. Men were more likely to enroll in computer-science programs, but women’s participation rose steadily and rapidly through the late ’70s until, by the 1983-84 academic year, 37.1 percent of all students graduating with degrees in computer and information sciences were women. In only one decade, their participation rate more than doubled.But then things went into reverse. From 1984 onward, the percentage dropped; by the time 2010 rolled around, it had been cut in half. Only 17.6 percent of the students graduating from computer-science and information-science programs were women.One reason for this vertiginous decline has to do with a change in how and when kids learned to program. The advent of personal computers in the late ’70s and early ’80s remade the pool of students who pursued computer-science degrees. Before then, pretty much every student who showed up at college had never touched a computer or even been in the room with one. Computers were rare and expensive devices, available for the most part only in research labs or corporate settings. Nearly all students were on equal footing, in other words, and new to programming.Once the first generation of personal computers, like the Commodore 64 or the TRS-80, found their way into homes, teenagers were able to play around with them, slowly learning the major concepts of programming in their spare time. By the mid-’80s, some college freshmen were showing up for their first class already proficient as programmers. They were remarkably well prepared for and perhaps even a little jaded about what Computer Science 101 might bring. As it turned out, these students were mostly men, as two academics discovered when they looked into the reasons women’s enrollment was so low.One researcher was Allan Fisher, then the associate dean of the computer-science school at Carnegie Mellon University. The school established an undergraduate program in computer science in 1988, and after a few years of operation, Fisher noticed that the proportion of women in the major was consistently below 10 percent. In 1994, he hired Jane Margolis, a social scientist who is now a senior researcher in the U.C.L.A. School of Education and Information Studies, to figure out why. Over four years, from 1995 to 1999, she and her colleagues interviewed and tracked roughly 100 undergraduates, male and female, in Carnegie Mellon’s computer-science department; she and Fisher later published the findings in their 2002 book “Unlocking the Clubhouse: Women in Computing.”What Margolis discovered was that the first-year students arriving at Carnegie Mellon with substantial experience were almost all male. They had received much more exposure to computers than girls had; for example, boys were more than twice as likely to have been given one as a gift by their parents. And if parents bought a computer for the family, they most often put it in a son’s room, not a daughter’s. Sons also tended to have what amounted to an “internship” relationship with fathers, working through Basic-language manuals with them, receiving encouragement from them; the same wasn’t true for daughters. “That was a very important part of our findings,” Margolis says. Nearly every female student in computer science at Carnegie Mellon told Margolis that her father had worked with her brother — “and they had to fight their way through to get some attention.”Their mothers were typically less engaged with computers in the home, they told her. Girls, even the nerdy ones, picked up these cues and seemed to dial back their enthusiasm accordingly. These were pretty familiar roles for boys and girls, historically: Boys were cheered on for playing with construction sets and electronics kits, while girls were steered toward dolls and toy kitchens. It wasn’t terribly surprising to Margolis that a new technology would follow the same pattern as it became widely accepted.At school, girls got much the same message: Computers were for boys. Geeky boys who formed computer clubs, at least in part to escape the torments of jock culture, often wound up, whether intentionally or not, reproducing the same exclusionary behavior. (These groups snubbed not only girls but also black and Latino boys.) Such male cliques created “a kind of peer support network,” in Fisher’s words.This helped explain why Carnegie Mellon’s first-year classes were starkly divided between the sizable number of men who were already confident in basic programming concepts and the women who were frequently complete neophytes. A cultural schism had emerged. The women started doubting their ability. How would they ever catch up?What Margolis heard from students — and from faculty members, too — was that there was a sense in the classroom that if you hadn’t already been coding obsessively for years, you didn’t belong. The “real programmer” was the one who “had a computer-screen tan from being in front of the monitor all the time,” as Margolis puts it. “The idea was, you just have to love being with a computer all the time, and if you don’t do it 24/7, you’re not a ‘real’ programmer.” The truth is, many of the men themselves didn’t fit this monomaniacal stereotype. But there was a double standard: While it was O.K. for the men to want to engage in various other pursuits, women who expressed the same wish felt judged for not being “hard core” enough. By the second year, many of these women, besieged by doubts, began dropping out of the program. (The same was true for the few black and Latino students who also arrived on campus without teenage programming experience.)A similar pattern took hold at many other campuses. Patricia Ordóñez, a first-year student at Johns Hopkins University in 1985, enrolled in an Introduction to Minicomputers course. She had been a math whiz in high school but had little experience in coding; when she raised her hand in class at college to ask a question, many of the other students who had spent their teenage years programming — and the professor — made her feel singled out. “I remember one day he looked at me and said, ‘You should already know this by now,’ ” she told me. “I thought, I’m never going to succeed.” She switched majors as a result.Yet a student’s decision to stick with or quit the subject did not seem to be correlated with coding talent. Many of the women who dropped out were getting perfectly good grades, Margolis learned. Indeed, some who left had been top students. And the women who did persist and made it to the third year of their program had by then generally caught up to the teenage obsessives. The degree’s coursework was, in other words, a leveling force. Learning Basic as a teenage hobby might lead to lots of fun and useful skills, but the pace of learning at college was so much more intense that by the end of the degree, everyone eventually wound up graduating at roughly the same levels of programming mastery.“It turned out that having prior experience is not a great predictor, even of academic success,” Fisher says. Ordóñez’s later experience illustrates exactly this: After changing majors at Johns Hopkins, she later took night classes in coding and eventually got a Ph.D. in computer science in her 30s; today, she’s a professor at the University of Puerto Rico Río Piedras, specializing in data science.By the ’80s, the early pioneering work done by female programmers had mostly been forgotten. In contrast, Hollywood was putting out precisely the opposite image: Computers were a male domain. In hit movies like “Revenge of the Nerds,” “Weird Science,” “Tron,” “WarGames” and others, the computer nerds were nearly always young white men. Video games, a significant gateway activity that led to an interest in computers, were pitched far more often at boys, as research in 1985 by Sara Kiesler, a professor at Carnegie Mellon, found. “In the culture, it became something that guys do and are good at,” says Kiesler, who is also a program manager at the National Science Foundation. “There were all kinds of things signaling that if you don’t have the right genes, you’re not welcome.”A 1983 study involving M.I.T. students produced equally bleak accounts. Women who raised their hands in class were often ignored by professors and talked over by other students. They would be told they weren’t aggressive enough; if they challenged other students or contradicted them, they heard comments like “You sure are bitchy today — must be your period.” Behavior in some research groups “sometimes approximates that of the locker room,” the report concluded, with men openly rating how “cute” their female students were. (“Gee, I don’t think it’s fair that the only two girls in the group are in the same office,” one said. “We should share.”) Male students mused about women’s mediocrity: “I really don’t think the woman students around here are as good as the men,” one said.By then, as programming enjoyed its first burst of cultural attention, so many students were racing to enroll in computer science that universities ran into a supply problem: They didn’t have enough professors to teach everyone. Some added hurdles, courses that students had to pass before they could be accepted into the computer-science major. Punishing workloads and classes that covered the material at a lightning pace weeded out those who didn’t get it immediately. All this fostered an environment in which the students mostly likely to get through were those who had already been exposed to coding — young men, mostly. “Every time the field has instituted these filters on the front end, that’s had the effect of reducing the participation of women in particular,” says Eric S. Roberts, a longtime professor of computer science, now at Reed College, who first studied this problem and called it the “capacity crisis.”When computer-science programs began to expand again in the mid-’90s, coding’s culture was set. Most of the incoming students were men. The interest among women never recovered to the levels reached in the late ’70s and early ’80s. And the women who did show up were often isolated. In a room of 20 students, perhaps five or even fewer might be women.In 1991, Ellen Spertus, now a computer scientist at Mills College, published a report on women’s experiences in programming classes. She cataloged a landscape populated by men who snickered about the presumed inferiority of women and by professors who told female students that they were “far too pretty” to be studying electrical engineering; when some men at Carnegie Mellon were asked to stop using pictures of naked women as desktop wallpaper on their computers, they angrily complained that it was censorship of the sort practiced by “the Nazis or the Ayatollah Khomeini.”As programming was shutting its doors to women in academia, a similar transformation was taking place in corporate America. The emergence of what would be called “culture fit” was changing the who, and the why, of the hiring process. Managers began picking coders less on the basis of aptitude and more on how well they fit a personality type: the acerbic, aloof male nerd.The shift actually began far earlier, back in the late ’60s, when managers recognized that male coders shared a growing tendency to be antisocial isolates, lording their arcane technical expertise over that of their bosses. Programmers were “often egocentric, slightly neurotic,” as Richard Brandon, a well-known computer-industry analyst, put it in an address at a 1968 conference, adding that “the incidence of beards, sandals and other symptoms of rugged individualism or nonconformity are notably greater among this demographic.”In addition to testing for logical thinking, as in Mary Allen Wilkes’s day, companies began using personality tests to select specifically for these sorts of caustic loner qualities. “These became very powerful narratives,” says Nathan Ensmenger, a professor of informatics at Indiana University, who has studied this transition. The hunt for that personality type cut women out. Managers might shrug and accept a man who was unkempt, unshaven and surly, but they wouldn’t tolerate a woman who behaved the same way. Coding increasingly required late nights, but managers claimed that it was too unsafe to have women working into the wee hours, so they forbid them to stay late with the men.At the same time, the old hierarchy of hardware and software became inverted. Software was becoming a critical, and lucrative, sector of corporate America. Employers increasingly hired programmers whom they could envision one day ascending to key managerial roles in programming. And few companies were willing to put a woman in charge of men. “They wanted people who were more aligned with management,” says Marie Hicks, a historian at the Illinois Institute of Technology. “One of the big takeaways is that technical skill does not equate to success.”By the 1990s and 2000s, the pursuit of “culture fit” was in full force, particularly at start-ups, which involve a relatively small number of people typically confined to tight quarters for long hours. Founders looked to hire people who were socially and culturally similar to them.“It’s all this loosey-goosey ‘culture’ thing,” says Sue Gardner, former head of the Wikimedia Foundation, the nonprofit that hosts Wikipedia and other sites. After her stint there, Gardner decided to study why so few women were employed as coders. In 2014, she surveyed more than 1,400 women in the field and conducted sit-down interviews with scores more. It became clear to her that the occupation’s takeover by men in the ’90s had turned into a self-perpetuating cycle. Because almost everyone in charge was a white or Asian man, that was the model for whom to hire; managers recognized talent only when it walked and talked as they did. For example, many companies have relied on whiteboard challenges when hiring a coder — a prospective employee is asked to write code, often a sorting algorithm, on a whiteboard while the employers watch. This sort of thing bears almost no resemblance to the work coders actually do in their jobs. But whiteboard questions resemble classroom work at Ivy League institutions. It feels familiar to the men doing the hiring, many of whom are only a few years out of college. “What I came to realize,” Gardner says, “is that it’s not that women are excluded. It’s that practically everyone is excluded if you’re not a young white or Asian man who’s single.”One coder, Stephanie Hurlburt, was a stereotypical math nerd who had deep experience working on graphics software. “I love C++, the low-level stuff,” she told me, referring to a complex language known for allowing programmers to write very fast-running code, useful in graphics. Hurlburt worked for a series of firms this decade, including Unity (which makes popular software for designing games), and then for Facebook on its Oculus Rift VR headset, grinding away for long hours in the run-up to the release of its first demo. Hurlburt became accustomed to shrugging off negative attention and crude sexism. She heard, including from many authority figures she admired, that women weren’t wired for math. While working as a coder, if she expressed ignorance of any concept, no matter how trivial, male colleagues would disparage her. “I thought you were at a higher math level,” one sniffed.In 2016, Hurlburt and a friend, Rich Geldreich, founded a start-up called Binomial, where they created software that helps compress the size of “textures” in graphics-heavy software. Being self-employed, she figured, would mean not having to deal with belittling bosses. But when she and Geldreich went to sell their product, some customers assumed that she was just the marketing person. “I don’t know how you got this product off the ground when you only have one programmer!” she recalls one client telling Geldreich.In 2014, an informal analysis by a tech entrepreneur and former academic named Kieran Snyder of 248 corporate performance reviews for tech engineers determined that women were considerably more likely than men to receive reviews with negative feedback; men were far more likely to get reviews that had only constructive feedback, with no negative material.Lurking beneath some of this sexist atmosphere is the phantasm of sociobiology. As this line of thinking goes, women are less suited to coding than men because biology better endows men with the qualities necessary to excel at programming. Many women who work in software face this line of reasoning all the time. Cate Huston, a software engineer at Google from 2011 to 2014, heard it from colleagues there when they pondered why such a low percentage of the company’s programmers were women. Peers would argue that Google hired only the best — that if women weren’t being hired, it was because they didn’t have enough innate logic or grit, she recalls.In the summer of 2017, a Google employee named James Damore suggested in an internal email that several qualities more commonly found in women — including higher rates of anxiety — explained why they weren’t thriving in a competitive world of coding; he cited the cognitive neuroscientist Simon Baron-Cohen, who theorizes that the male brain is more likely to be “systemizing,” compared with women’s “empathizing” brains. Google fired Damore, saying it could not employ someone who would argue that his female colleagues were inherently unsuited to the job. But on Google’s internal boards, other male employees backed up Damore, agreeing with his analysis. The assumption that the makeup of the coding work force reflects a pure meritocracy runs deep among many Silicon Valley men; for them, sociobiology offers a way to explain things, particularly for the type who prefers to believe that sexism in the workplace is not a big deal, or even doubts it really exists.But if biology were the reason so few women are in coding, it would be impossible to explain why women were so prominent in the early years of American programming, when the work could be, if anything, far harder than today’s programming. It was an uncharted new field, in which you had to do math in binary and hexadecimal formats, and there were no helpful internet forums, no Google to query, for assistance with your bug. It was just your brain in a jar, solving hellish problems.If biology limited women’s ability to code, then the ratio of women to men in programming ought to be similar in other countries. It isn’t. In India, roughly 40 percent of the students studying computer science and related fields are women. This is despite even greater barriers to becoming a female coder there; India has such rigid gender roles that female college students often have an 8 p.m. curfew, meaning they can’t work late in the computer lab, as the social scientist Roli Varma learned when she studied them in 2015. The Indian women had one big cultural advantage over their American peers, though: They were far more likely to be encouraged by their parents to go into the field, Varma says. What’s more, the women regarded coding as a safer job because it kept them indoors, lessening their exposure to street-level sexual harassment. It was, in other words, considered normal in India that women would code. The picture has been similar in Malaysia, where in 2001 — precisely when the share of American women in computer science had slid into a trough — women represented 52 percent of the undergraduate computer-science majors and 39 percent of the Ph.D. candidates at the University of Malaya in Kuala Lumpur.Today, when midcareer women decide that Silicon Valley’s culture is unlikely to change, many simply leave the industry. When Sue Gardner surveyed those 1,400 women in 2014, they told her the same story: In the early years, as junior coders, they looked past the ambient sexism they encountered. They loved programming and were ambitious and excited by their jobs. But over time, Gardner says, “they get ground down.” As they rose in the ranks, they found few, if any, mentors. Nearly two-thirds either experienced or witnessed harassment, she read in “The Athena Factor” (a 2008 study of women in tech); in Gardner’s survey, one-third reported that their managers were more friendly toward and gave more support to their male co-workers. It’s often assumed that having children is the moment when women are sidelined in tech careers, as in many others, but Gardner discovered that wasn’t often the breaking point for these women. They grew discouraged seeing men with no better or even lesser qualifications get superior opportunities and treatment.“What surprised me was that they felt, ‘I did all that work!’ They were angry,” Gardner says. “It wasn’t like they needed a helping hand or needed a little extra coaching. They were mad. They were not leaving because they couldn’t hack it. They were leaving because they were skilled professionals who had skills that were broadly in demand in the marketplace, and they had other options. So they’re like, ‘[expletive] it — I’ll go somewhere where I’m seen as valuable.’ ”The result is an industry that is drastically more male than it was decades ago, and far more so than the workplace at large. In 2018, according to data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, about 26 percent of the workers in “computer and mathematical occupations” were women. The percentages for people of color are similarly low: Black employees were 8.4 percent, Latinos 7.5 percent. (The Census Bureau’s American Community Survey put black coders at only 4.7 percent in 2016.) In the more rarefied world of the top Silicon Valley tech firms, the numbers are even more austere: A 2017 analysis by Recode, a news site that covers the technology industry, revealed that 20 percent of Google’s technical employees were women, while only 1 percent were black and 3 percent were Hispanic. Facebook was nearly identical; the numbers at Twitter were 15 percent, 2 percent and 4 percent, respectively.The reversal has been profound. In the early days of coding, women flocked to programming because it offered more opportunity and reward for merit, more than fields like law. Now software has the closed door.In the late 1990s, Allan Fisher decided that Carnegie Mellon would try to address the male-female imbalance in its computer-science program. Prompted by Jane Margolis’s findings, Fisher and his colleagues instituted several changes. One was the creation of classes that grouped students by experience: The kids who had been coding since youth would start on one track; the newcomers to coding would have a slightly different curriculum, allowing them more time to catch up. Carnegie Mellon also offered extra tutoring to all students, which was particularly useful for the novice coders. If Fisher could get them to stay through the first and second years, he knew, they would catch up to their peers.They also modified the courses in order to show how code has impacts in the real world, so a new student’s view of programming wouldn’t just be an endless vista of algorithms disconnected from any practical use. Fisher wanted students to glimpse, earlier on, what it was like to make software that works its way into people’s lives. Back in the ’90s, before social media and even before the internet had gone mainstream, the influence that code could have on daily life wasn’t so easy to see.Faculty members, too, adopted a different perspective. For years some had tacitly endorsed the idea that the students who came in already knowing code were born to it. Carnegie Mellon “rewarded the obsessive hacker,” Fisher told me. But the faculty now knew that their assumptions weren’t true; they had been confusing previous experience with raw aptitude. They still wanted to encourage those obsessive teenage coders, but they had come to understand that the neophytes were just as likely to bloom rapidly into remarkable talents and deserved as much support. “We had to broaden how faculty sees what a successful student looks like,” he says. The admissions process was adjusted, too; it no longer gave as much preference to students who had been teenage coders.No single policy changed things. “There’s really a virtuous cycle,” Fisher says. “If you make the program accommodate people with less experience, then people with less experience come in.” Faculty members became more used to seeing how green coders evolve into accomplished ones, and they learned how to teach that type.Carnegie Mellon’s efforts were remarkably successful. Only a few years after these changes, the percentage of women entering its computer-science program boomed, rising to 42 percent from 7 percent; graduation rates for women rose to nearly match those of the men. The school vaulted over the national average. Other schools concerned about the low number of female students began using approaches similar to Fisher’s. In 2006, Harvey Mudd College tinkered with its Introduction to Computer Science course, creating a track specifically for novices, and rebranded it as Creative Problem Solving in Science and Engineering Using Computational Approaches — which, the institution’s president, Maria Klawe, told me, “is actually a better description of what you’re actually doing when you’re coding.” By 2018, 54 percent of Harvey Mudd’s graduates who majored in computer science were women.A broader cultural shift has accompanied the schools’ efforts. In the last few years, women’s interest in coding has begun rapidly rising throughout the United States. In 2012, the percentage of female undergraduates who plan to major in computer science began to rise at rates not seen for 35 years, since the decline in the mid-’80s, according to research by Linda Sax, an education professor at U.C.L.A. There has also been a boomlet of groups and organizations training and encouraging underrepresented cohorts to enter the field, like Black Girls Code and Code Newbie. Coding has come to be seen, in purely economic terms, as a bastion of well-paying and engaging work.In an age when Instagram and Snapchat and iPhones are part of the warp and weft of life’s daily fabric, potential coders worry less that the job will be isolated, antisocial and distant from reality. “Women who see themselves as creative or artistic are more likely to pursue computer science today than in the past,” says Sax, who has pored over decades of demographic data about the students in STEM fields. They’re still less likely to go into coding than other fields, but programming is increasingly on their horizon. This shift is abetted by the fact that it’s much easier to learn programming without getting a full degree, through free online coding schools, relatively cheaper “boot camps” or even meetup groups for newcomers — opportunities that have emerged only in the last decade.Changing the culture at schools is one thing. Most female veterans of code I’ve spoken to say that what is harder is shifting the culture of the industry at large, particularly the reflexive sexism and racism still deeply ingrained in Silicon Valley. Some, like Sue Gardner, sometimes wonder if it’s even ethical for her to encourage young women to go into tech. She fears they’ll pour out of computer-science programs in increasing numbers, arrive at their first coding job excited and thrive early on, but then gradually get beaten down by industry. “The truth is, we can attract more and different people into the field, but they’re just going to hit that wall in midcareer, unless we change how things happen higher up,” she says.On a spring weekend in 2017, more than 700 coders and designers were given 24 hours to dream up and create a new product at a hackathon in New York hosted by TechCrunch, a news site devoted to technology and Silicon Valley. At lunchtime on Sunday, the teams presented their creations to a panel of industry judges, in a blizzard of frantic elevator pitches. There was Instagrammie, a robot system that would automatically recognize the mood of an elderly relative or a person with limited mobility; there was Waste Not, an app to reduce food waste. Most of the contestants were coders who worked at local high-tech firms or computer-science students at nearby universities.The winning team, though, was a trio of high school girls from New Jersey: Sowmya Patapati, Akshaya Dinesh and Amulya Balakrishnan. In only 24 hours, they created reVIVE, a virtual-reality app that tests children for signs of A.D.H.D. After the students were handed their winnings onstage — a trophy-size check for $5,000 — they flopped into chairs in a nearby room to recuperate. They had been coding almost nonstop since noon the day before and were bleary with exhaustion.“Lots of caffeine,” Balakrishnan, 17, said, laughing. She wore a blue T-shirt that read “WHO HACK THE WORLD? GIRLS.” The girls told me that they had impressed even themselves by how much they accomplished in 24 hours. “Our app really does streamline the process of detecting A.D.H.D.,” said Dinesh, who was also 17. “It usually takes six to nine months to diagnose, and thousands of dollars! We could do it digitally in a much faster way!”They all became interested in coding in high school, each of them with strong encouragement from immigrant parents. Balakrishnan’s parents worked in software and medicine; Dinesh’s parents came to the United States from India in 2000 and worked in information technology. Patapati immigrated from India as an infant with her young mother, who never went to college, and her father, an information-tech worker who was the first in his rural family to go to college.Drawn to coding in high school, the young hackers got used to being the lone girl nerds at school, as Dinesh told me.“I tried so hard to get other girls interested in computer science, and it was like, the interest levels were just so low,” she says. “When I walked into my first hackathon, it was the most intimidating thing ever. I looked at a room of 80 kids: Five were girls, and I was probably the youngest person there.” But she kept on competing in 25 more hackathons, and her confidence grew. To break the isolation and meet more girls in coding, she attended events by organizations like #BuiltByGirls, which is where, a few days previously, she had met Patapati and Balakrishnan and where they decided to team up. To attend TechCrunch, Patapati, who was 16, and Balakrishnan skipped a junior prom and a friend’s birthday party. “Who needs a party when you can go to a hackathon?” Patapati said.Winning TechCrunch as a group of young women of color brought extra attention, not all of it positive. “I’ve gotten a lot of comments like: ‘Oh, you won the hackathon because you’re a girl! You’re a diversity pick,” Balakrishnan said. After the prize was announced online, she recalled later, “there were quite a few engineers who commented, ‘Oh, it was a girl pick; obviously that’s why they won.’ ”Nearly two years later, Balakrishnan was taking a gap year to create a heart-monitoring product she invented, and she was in the running for $100,000 to develop it. She was applying to college to study computer science and, in her spare time, competing in a beauty pageant, inspired by Miss USA 2017, Kara McCullough, who was a nuclear scientist. “I realized that I could use pageantry as a platform to show more girls that they could embrace their femininity and be involved in a very technical, male-dominated field,” she says. Dinesh, in her final year at high school, had started an all-female hackathon that now takes place annually in New York. (“The vibe was definitely very different,” she says, more focused on training newcomers.)Patapati and Dinesh enrolled at Stanford last fall to study computer science; both are interested deeply in A.I. They’ve noticed the subtle tensions for women in the coding classes. Patapati, who founded the Women of A.I. group with an Apple tech lead, has watched as male colleagues ignore her raised hand in group discussions or repeat something she just said as if it were their idea. “I think sometimes it’s just a bias that people don’t even recognize that they have,” she says. “That’s been really upsetting.”Dinesh says “there’s absolutely a difference in confidence levels” between the male and female newcomers. The Stanford curriculum is so intense that even the relative veterans like her are scrambling: When we spoke recently, she had just spent “three all-nighters in a row” on a single project, for which students had to engineer a “print” command from scratch. At 18, she has few illusions about the road ahead. When she went to a blockchain conference, it was a sea of “middle-aged white and Asian men,” she says. “I’m never going to one again,” she adds with a laugh.“My dream is to work on autonomous driving at Tesla or Waymo or some company like that. Or if I see that there’s something missing, maybe I’ll start my own company.” She has begun moving in that direction already, having met one venture capitalist via #BuiltByGirls. “So now I know I can start reaching out to her, and I can start reaching out to other people that she might know,” she says.Will she look around, 20 years from now, to see that software has returned to its roots, with women everywhere? “I’m not really sure what will happen,” she admits. “But I do think it is absolutely on the upward climb.”An earlier version of this article misidentified the institution Ellen Spertus was affiliated with when she published a 1991 report on women’s experiences in programming classes. Spertus was at M.I.T. when she published the report, not Mills College, where she is currently a professor.An earlier version of this article misstated Akshaya Dinesh’s current age. She is 18, not 19.An earlier version of this article misstated the name of a group that supports women working in artificial intelligence. It is Women of A.I., not Women in A.I.An earlier version of this article cited a study conducted by the firm Speak With a Geek into gender-blind tech-job applications. After the article’s publication, questions were raised about the study. Upon further review, the magazine has been unable to confirm that this study was undertaken as described, and so reference to it has been removed from the article.Clive Thompson is a contributing writer for the magazine and Smithsonian and a columnist for Wired. This article is adapted from “Coders: The Making of a New Tribe and the Remaking of the World,” to be published by Penguin Press in March.

Supported byMichael D. Cohen, the former attorney and fixer for Donald J. Trump, provided his opening statement to Congress for his public testimony on Wednesday about the 2016 campaign and Mr. Trump’s business practices. Watch Mr. Cohen’s testimony live and see the documents he provided to Congress here.TESTIMONY OF MICHAEL D. COHENCOMMITTEE ON OVERSIGHT AND REFORM U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVESFEBRUARY 27, 2019Chairman Cummings, Ranking Member Jordan, and Members of the Committee, thank you for inviting me here today.I have asked this Committee to ensure that my family be protected from Presidential threats, and that the Committee be sensitive to the questions pertaining to ongoing investigations. Thank you for your help and for your understanding.I am here under oath to correct the record, to answer the Committee’s questions truthfully, and to offer the American people what I know about President Trump.I recognize that some of you may doubt and attack me on my credibility. It is for this reason that I have incorporated into this opening statement documents that are irrefutable, and demonstrate that the information you will hear is accurate and truthful.Never in a million years did I imagine, when I accepted a job in 2007 to work for Donald Trump, that he would one day run for President, launch a 2 campaign on a platform of hate and intolerance, and actually win. I regret the day I said “yes” to Mr. Trump. I regret all the help and support I gave him along the way.I am ashamed of my own failings, and I publicly accepted responsibility for them by pleading guilty in the Southern District of New York.I am ashamed of my weakness and misplaced loyalty – of the things I did for Mr. Trump in an effort to protect and promote him.I am ashamed that I chose to take part in concealing Mr. Trump’s illicit acts rather than listening to my own conscience.I am ashamed because I know what Mr. Trump is.He is a racist.He is a conman.He is a cheat.He was a presidential candidate who knew that Roger Stone was talking with Julian Assange about a WikiLeaks drop of Democratic National Committee emails.I will explain each in a few moments.I am providing the Committee today with several documents. These include:• A copy of a check Mr. Trump wrote from his personal bank account – after he became president - to reimburse me for the hush money payments I made to cover up his affair with an adult film star and prevent damage to his campaign;• Copies of financial statements for 2011 – 2013 that he gave to such institutions as Deutsche Bank;• A copy of an article with Mr. Trump’s handwriting on it that reported on the auction of a portrait of himself – he arranged for the bidder ahead of time and then reimbursed the bidder from the account of his non-profit charitable foundation, with the picture now hanging in one of his country clubs; and• Copies of letters I wrote at Mr. Trump’s direction that threatened his high school, colleges, and the College Board not to release his grades or SAT scores.I hope my appearance here today, my guilty plea, and my work with law enforcement agencies are steps along a path of redemption that will restore faith in me and help this country understand our president better.***Before going further, I want to apologize to each of you and to Congress as a whole.The last time I appeared before Congress, I came to protect Mr. Trump. Today, I’m here to tell the truth about Mr. Trump.I lied to Congress about when Mr. Trump stopped negotiating the Moscow Tower project in Russia. I stated that we stopped negotiating in January 2016. That was false – our negotiations continued for months later during the campaign.Mr. Trump did not directly tell me to lie to Congress. That’s not how he operates.In conversations we had during the campaign, at the same time I was actively negotiating in Russia for him, he would look me in the eye and tell 5 me there’s no business in Russia and then go out and lie to the American people by saying the same thing. In his way, he was telling me to lie.There were at least a half-dozen times between the Iowa Caucus in January 2016 and the end of June when he would ask me “How’s it going in Russia?” – referring to the Moscow Tower project.Michael D. Cohen, the former lawyer and fixer for President Donald J. Trump, took the stand on Wednesday morning to testify publicly against Mr. Trump before the House Oversight Committee.You need to know that Mr. Trump’s personal lawyers reviewed and edited my statement to Congress about the timing of the Moscow Tower negotiations before I gave it.To be clear: Mr. Trump knew of and directed the Trump Moscow negotiations throughout the campaign and lied about it. He lied about it because he never expected to win the election. He also lied about it because he stood to make hundreds of millions of dollars on the Moscow real estate project.And so I lied about it, too – because Mr. Trump had made clear to me, through his personal statements to me that we both knew were false and through his lies to the country, that he wanted me to lie. And he made it 6 clear to me because his personal attorneys reviewed my statement before I gave it to Congress.****Over the past two years, I have been smeared as “a rat” by the President of the United States. The truth is much different, and let me take a brief moment to introduce myself.My name is Michael Dean Cohen. I am a blessed husband of 24 years and a father to an incredible daughter and son. When I married my wife, I promised her that I would love her, cherish her, and protect her. As my father said countless times throughout my childhood, “you my wife, and you my children, are the air that I breathe.” To my Laura, my Sami, and my Jake, there is nothing I wouldn’t do to protect you.I have always tried to live a life of loyalty, friendship, generosity, and compassion – qualities my parents ingrained in my siblings and me since childhood. My father survived the Holocaust thanks to the compassion and selfless acts of others. He was helped by many who put themselves in harm’s way to do what they knew was right.That is why my first instinct has always been to help those in need. Mom and Dad…I am sorry that I let you down.As many people that know me best would say, I am the person they would call at 3AM if they needed help. I proudly remember being the emergency contact for many of my children’s friends when they were growing up because their parents knew that I would drop everything and care for them as if they were my own.Yet, last fall I pled guilty in federal court to felonies for the benefit of, at the direction of, and in coordination with Individual #1.For the record: Individual #1 is President Donald J. Trump.It is painful to admit that I was motivated by ambition at times. It is even more painful to admit that many times I ignored my conscience and acted loyal to a man when I should not have. Sitting here today, it seems unbelievable that I was so mesmerized by Donald Trump that I was willing to do things for him that I knew were absolutely wrong.For that reason, I have come here to apologize to my family, to the government, and to the American people.Accordingly, let me now tell you about Mr. Trump.I got to know him very well, working very closely with him for more than 10 years, as his Executive Vice President and Special Counsel and then personal attorney when he became President. When I first met Mr. Trump, he was a successful entrepreneur, a real estate giant, and an icon. Being around Mr. Trump was intoxicating. When you were in his presence, you felt like you were involved in something greater than yourself — that you were somehow changing the world.I wound up touting the Trump narrative for over a decade. That was my job. Always stay on message. Always defend. It monopolized my life. At first, I worked mostly on real estate developments and other business transactions. Shortly thereafter, Mr. Trump brought me into his personal life and private dealings. Over time, I saw his true character revealed.Mr. Trump is an enigma. He is complicated, as am I. He has both good and bad, as do we all. But the bad far outweighs the good, and since taking office, he has become the worst version of himself. He is capable of behaving kindly, but he is not kind. He is capable of committing acts of generosity, but he is not generous. He is capable of being loyal, but he is fundamentally disloyal.Donald Trump is a man who ran for office to make his brand great, not to make our country great. He had no desire or intention to lead this nation – only to market himself and to build his wealth and power. Mr. Trump would often say, this campaign was going to be the “greatest infomercial in political history.”He never expected to win the primary. He never expected to win the general election. The campaign – for him – was always a marketing opportunity.I knew early on in my work for Mr. Trump that he would direct me to lie to further his business interests. I am ashamed to say, that when it was for a real estate mogul in the private sector, I considered it trivial. As the President, I consider it significant and dangerous.But in the mix, lying for Mr. Trump was normalized, and no one around him questioned it. In fairness, no one around him today questions it, either.A lot of people have asked me about whether Mr. Trump knew about the release of the hacked Democratic National Committee emails ahead of time. The answer is yes.As I earlier stated, Mr. Trump knew from Roger Stone in advance about the WikiLeaks drop of emails.In July 2016, days before the Democratic convention, I was in Mr. Trump’s office when his secretary announced that Roger Stone was on the phone. Mr. Trump put Mr. Stone on the speakerphone. Mr. Stone told Mr. Trump that he had just gotten off the phone with Julian Assange and that Mr. Assange told Mr. Stone that, within a couple of days, there would be a massive dump of emails that would damage Hillary Clinton’s campaign.Michael D. Cohen provided documents to Congress that he said would support his testimony about the 2016 campaign and Mr. Trump’s business practices.Mr. Trump responded by stating to the effect of “wouldn’t that be great.”Mr. Trump is a racist. The country has seen Mr. Trump court white supremacists and bigots. You have heard him call poorer countries “shitholes.”He once asked me if I could name a country run by a black person that wasn’t a “shithole.” This was when Barack Obama was President of the United States.While we were once driving through a struggling neighborhood in Chicago, he commented that only black people could live that way.And, he told me that black people would never vote for him because they were too stupid.And yet I continued to work for him.Mr. Trump is a cheat.As previously stated, I’m giving the Committee today three years of President Trump’s financial statements, from 2011-2013, which he gave to Deutsche Bank to inquire about a loan to buy the Buffalo Bills and to Forbes. These are Exhibits 1a, 1b, and 1c to my testimony.It was my experience that Mr. Trump inflated his total assets when it served his purposes, such as trying to be listed among the wealthiest people in Forbes, and deflated his assets to reduce his real estate taxes.I am sharing with you two newspaper articles, side by side, that are examples of Mr. Trump inflating and deflating his assets, as I said, to suit his financial interests. These are Exhibit 2 to my testimony.As I noted, I’m giving the Committee today an article he wrote on, and sent me, that reported on an auction of a portrait of Mr. Trump. This is Exhibit 3A to my testimony.Mr. Trump directed me to find a straw bidder to purchase a portrait of him that was being auctioned at an Art Hamptons Event. The objective was to ensure that his portrait, which was going to be auctioned last, would go for the highest price of any portrait that afternoon. The portrait was purchased by the fake bidder for $60,000. Mr. Trump directed the Trump Foundation, which is supposed to be a charitable organization, to repay the fake bidder, despite keeping the art for himself. Please see Exhibit 3B to my testimony.And it should come as no surprise that one of my more common responsibilities was that Mr. Trump directed me to call business owners, many of whom were small businesses, that were owed money for their services and told them no payment or a reduced payment would be coming. When I advised Mr. Trump of my success, he actually reveled in it.And yet, I continued to work for him.Mr. Trump is a conman.He asked me to pay off an adult film star with whom he had an affair, and to lie to his wife about it, which I did. Lying to the First Lady is one of my biggest regrets. She is a kind, good person. I respect her greatly – and she did not deserve that.I am giving the Committee today a copy of the $130,000 wire transfer from me to Ms. Clifford’s attorney during the closing days of the presidential campaign that was demanded by Ms. Clifford to maintain her silence about her affair with Mr. Trump. This is Exhibit 4 to my testimony.Mr. Trump directed me to use my own personal funds from a Home Equity Line of Credit to avoid any money being traced back to him that could negatively impact his campaign. I did that, too – without bothering to consider whether that was improper, much less whether it was the right thing to do or how it would impact me, my family, or the public.I am going to jail in part because of my decision to help Mr. Trump hide that payment from the American people before they voted a few days later.As Exhibit 5 to my testimony shows, I am providing a copy of a $35,000 check that President Trump personally signed from his personal bank 14 account on August 1, 2017 – when he was President of the United States – pursuant to the cover-up, which was the basis of my guilty plea, to reimburse me – the word used by Mr. Trump’s TV lawyer — for the illegal hush money I paid on his behalf. This $35,000 check was one of 11 check installments that was paid throughout the year – while he was President.The President of the United States thus wrote a personal check for the payment of hush money as part of a criminal scheme to violate campaign finance laws. You can find the details of that scheme, directed by Mr. Trump, in the pleadings in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York.So picture this scene – in February 2017, one month into his presidency, I’m visiting President Trump in the Oval Office for the first time. It’s truly awe-inspiring, he’s showing me around and pointing to different paintings, and he says to me something to the effect of…Don’t worry, Michael, your January and February reimbursement checks are coming. They were FedExed from New York and it takes a while for that to get through the White House system. As he promised, I received the first check for the reimbursement of $70,000 not long thereafter.When I say conman, I’m talking about a man who declares himself brilliant but directed me to threaten his high school, his colleges, and the College Board to never release his grades or SAT scores.As I mentioned, I’m giving the Committee today copies of a letter I sent at Mr. Trump’s direction threatening these schools with civil and criminal actions if Mr. Trump’s grades or SAT scores were ever disclosed without his permission. These are Exhibit 6.The irony wasn’t lost on me at the time that Mr. Trump in 2011 had strongly criticized President Obama for not releasing his grades. As you can see in Exhibit 7, Mr. Trump declared “Let him show his records” after calling President Obama “a terrible student.”Wednesday’s congressional hearing is focusing in part on how much Trump knew about hush money payments and a proposed Trump Tower in Moscow.The sad fact is that I never heard Mr. Trump say anything in private that led me to believe he loved our nation or wanted to make it better. In fact, he did the opposite.When telling me in 2008 that he was cutting employees’ salaries in half – including mine – he showed me what he claimed was a $10 million IRS tax refund, and he said that he could not believe how stupid the government was for giving “someone like him” that much money back.During the campaign, Mr. Trump said he did not consider Vietnam Veteran, and Prisoner of War, Senator John McCain to be “a hero” because he likes people who weren’t captured. At the same time, Mr. Trump tasked me to handle the negative press surrounding his medical deferment from the Vietnam draft.Mr. Trump claimed it was because of a bone spur, but when I asked for medical records, he gave me none and said there was no surgery. He told me not to answer the specific questions by reporters but rather offer simply the fact that he received a medical deferment.He finished the conversation with the following comment. “You think I’m stupid, I wasn’t going to Vietnam.”I find it ironic, President Trump, that you are in Vietnam right now.And yet, I continued to work for him.Questions have been raised about whether I know of direct evidence that Mr. Trump or his campaign colluded with Russia. I do not. I want to be clear. But, I have my suspicions.Sometime in the summer of 2017, I read all over the media that there had been a meeting in Trump Tower in June 2016 involving Don Jr. and others from the campaign with Russians, including a representative of the Russian government, and an email setting up the meeting with the subject line, “Dirt on Hillary Clinton.” Something clicked in my mind. I remember being in the room with Mr. Trump, probably in early June 2016, when something peculiar happened. Don Jr. came into the room and walked behind his father’s desk – which in itself was unusual. People didn’t just walk behind Mr. Trump’s desk to talk to him. I recalled Don Jr. leaning over to his father and speaking in a low voice, which I could clearly hear, and saying: “The meeting is all set.” I remember Mr. Trump saying, “Ok good…let me know.”What struck me as I looked back and thought about that exchange between Don Jr. and his father was, first, that Mr. Trump had frequently told me and others that his son Don Jr. had the worst judgment of anyone in the world. And also, that Don Jr. would never set up any meeting of any significance alone – and certainly not without checking with his father.I also knew that nothing went on in Trump world, especially the campaign, without Mr. Trump’s knowledge and approval. So, I concluded that Don Jr. was referring to that June 2016 Trump Tower meeting about dirt on Hillary with the Russian representative when he walked behind his dad’s desk that day — and that Mr. Trump knew that was the meeting Don Jr. was talking about when he said, “That’s good…let me know.”Over the past year or so, I have done some real soul searching. I see now that my ambition and the intoxication of Trump power had much to do with the bad decisions I made.To you, Chairman Cummings, Ranking Member Jordan, the other members of this Committee, and the other members of the House and Senate, I am sorry for my lies and for lying to Congress.To our nation, I am sorry for actively working to hide from you the truth about Mr. Trump when you needed it most.For those who question my motives for being here today, I understand. I have lied, but I am not a liar. I have done bad things, but I am not a bad man. I have fixed things, but I am no longer your “fixer,” Mr. Trump.I am going to prison and have shattered the safety and security that I tried so hard to provide for my family. My testimony certainly does not diminish the pain I caused my family and friends – nothing can do that. And I have never asked for, nor would I accept, a pardon from President Trump.And, by coming today, I have caused my family to be the target of personal, scurrilous attacks by the President and his lawyer – trying to intimidate me from appearing before this panel. Mr. Trump called me a “rat” for choosing to tell the truth – much like a mobster would do when one of his men decides to cooperate with the government.As Exhibit 8 shows, I have provided the Committee with copies of Tweets that Mr. Trump posted, attacking me and my family – only someone burying his head in the sand would not recognize them for what they are: encouragement to someone to do harm to me and my family.I never imagined that he would engage in vicious, false attacks on my family – and unleash his TV-lawyer to do the same. I hope this committee and all members of Congress on both sides of the aisle will make it clear: As a nation, we should not tolerate attempts to intimidate witnesses before congress and attacks on family are out of bounds and not acceptable.I wish to especially thank Speaker Pelosi for her statements in Exhibit 9 to protect this institution and me, and the Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence Adam Schiff and Chairman Cummings for likewise defending this institution and my family against the attacks by Mr. Trump, and also the many Republicans who have admonished the President as well.I am not a perfect man. I have done things I am not proud of, and I will live with the consequences of my actions for the rest of my life.But today, I get to decide the example I set for my children and how I attempt to change how history will remember me. I may not be able to change the past, but I can do right by the American people here today.Thank you for your attention. I am happy to answer the Committee’s questions.#####Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the Morning Briefing newsletter.



      By LARRY BUCHANAN and 
    
KAREN YOURISH

FEB. 19, 2019

President Trump has publicly criticized dozens of people and groups related to federal inquiries into contacts between his campaign and Russia, according to a New York Times analysis of nearly every public statement or Twitter post that he has made while in office.67 attacksNumber of attacks by Trump, each monthRussia investigations201720182019JulyJulyF.B.I., Justice Dept. and intelligence agencies41Hillary Clinton and her 2016 campaignJames B. Comey26Obama administration23News media142017July2018July201967 attacksNumber of attacks by Trump,each monthRussia investigations602017AprilJulyOctober2018AprilJulyOctober2019F.B.I., Justice Dept. and intelligence agencies41Hillary Clinton and her 2016 campaignJames B. Comey26Obama administration23News media142017AprilJulyOctober2018AprilJulyOctober2019The attacks, which number nearly 1,200, are part of a strategy to beat back the investigations. They have also opened him to possible obstruction of justice charges. They include statements made on Twitter, in official speeches, at rallies and during news media interviews and other press events.While it is highly unusual for anyone — let alone the president of the United States — to comment on continuing criminal investigations, Mr. Trump has done so at least once on 330 days, or more than 43 percent of his time in office as of Feb. 14.Jan.Feb.MarchAprilMayJuneJulyAug.Sept.Oct.Nov.Dec.Jan.Feb.MarchAprilMayJuneJulyAug.Sept.Oct.Nov.Dec.Jan.Feb.Mr. Trump has employed a wide range of attacks in what appears to be an attempt to discredit the people and organizations associated with the investigations.According to the president, the inquiry by Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, into Russian interference in the 2016 election is the “single greatest witch hunt in political history.”Special counsel investigationAttacked 361 timesManafort convicted52Mueller is appointed2017AprilJulyOctober2018AprilJulyOctober2019Manafort convictedMueller is appointed2017July2018July2019Mr. Trump has said that Russian meddling was fabricated “as an excuse by the Democrats as to why Crooked Hillary Clinton” lost.Hillary Clinton and her campaignAttacked 295 times41 attacks2017AprilJulyOctober2018AprilJulyOctober201941 attacks2017July2018July2019This “illegal hoax,” Mr. Trump said, is perpetuated by the “fake news media”  …News mediaAttacked 151 timesThe Times reports details of Trump Tower meeting13attacks2017AprilJulyOctober2018AprilJulyOctober2019The Times reports details of Trump Tower meeting13attacks2017July2018July2019… and “low-life leakers” at the F.B.I., including the former director, James B. Comey, whom Mr. Trump called a “proven liar and leaker.” The president said that the news media and the F.B.I. refuse to investigate the “real collusion” between the Democrats and Russia.James B. ComeyAttacked 148 timesComey’s bookis publishedTrump fires Comey26attacks2443F.B.I., Justice Dept. and intelligence agenciesAttacked 277 times2017AprilJulyOctober2018AprilJulyOctober2019James B. ComeyAttacked 148 timesComey’s bookis publishedTrump fires Comey26attacks24F.B.I., Justice Dept. and intelligence agenciesAttacked 277 times432017July2018July2019He also regularly emphasized, “we wouldn’t even be talking about this subject” if Jeff Sessions, the former attorney general, had not recused himself from any investigation into the campaign.Jeff SessionsAttacked 57 timesSessionsfired14attacksSessions’srecusal2017AprilJulyOctober2018AprilJulyOctober2019Sessions’srecusalSessionsfired14attacks2017July2018July2019Mr. Trump fired Mr. Sessions in November. The next month he said on Twitter, “Jeff Sessions should be ashamed of himself for allowing this total HOAX to get started in the first place!”Mr. Trump, however, does not disparage everyone involved.Number of times Trump defended someone, by monthManafortconvicted30defensesFlynn pleadedguiltyStoneindicted2017AprilJulyOctober2018AprilJulyOctober2019Manafortconvicted30defensesFlynn pleadedguiltyStoneindicted2017July2018July2019Trump has described Paul Manafort, his onetime campaign chairman — who has been convicted of 10 felonies and is awaiting sentencing — as a “very decent man” and “honorable person.”The president has also said he felt “badly” for Michael T. Flynn, his former national security adviser, who pleaded guilty to lying to the F.B.I.Mr. Trump praised Roger J. Stone Jr., a longtime associate who has pleaded not guilty to felony charges in the special counsel investigation, for having “guts” for saying he would refuse to testify against him.And Mr. Trump called his eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., a “good boy” who did nothing wrong in arranging a meeting at Trump Tower with a Kremlin-connected lawyer who promised damaging information on Mrs. Clinton.But whom or what does he defend the most? President Vladimir V. Putin and Russia.Putin and the RussiansDefended 61 timesTrump and Putinpress conferencein HelsinkiTrump meetsPutin2017AprilJulyOctober2018AprilJulyOctober2019Trump and Putinpress conferencein HelsinkiTrumpmeetsPutin2017July2018July2019Source: Factba.se, a service of FactSquaredAdditional work by K.K. Rebecca Lai and Kevin Quealy.

This week’s North Korea meeting is just the latest challenge in a larger balancing act for the secretary of state.Mike Pompeo at the State Department in Washington.CreditCreditAdam Ferguson for The New York TimesSupported byBy Mattathias SchwartzOne of the first problems that Mike Pompeo solved for Donald Trump was the President’s Daily Brief. On every morning (or at least some of them), the president has traditionally received the most crucial findings of the United States spying apparatus, personally delivered in a solemn face-to-face exchange with a senior intelligence official. Beginning in late 2016, a series of anonymously sourced reports claimed that Trump was not taking the brief with sufficient frequency, or seriousness, or focus, or preparation. Even after the inauguration, there were claims that the spies did not trust him and were holding the good stuff back; there were claims that Trump did not even believe in objective reality. In the middle of it was Pompeo, Trump’s new C.I.A. director, who some in the president’s circle felt was the man best suited to educate Trump about the complexities of foreign policy. The president “has a steep learning curve, but you’ve got to get him up it quickly,” Stephen K. Bannon, Trump’s former senior adviser, says he told Pompeo.The day after the inauguration, Bannon recalls, Pompeo showed Trump around his office in Langley, Va. Pompeo, he says, “can connect with this guy. You can tell the president is differently engaged with Pompeo than with anybody else.” Pompeo learned to arrive at the White House with answers to the president’s favorite questions: Why should we care? What’s in it for us? Can anyone else do it? How much does it cost? By mid-2017, the gripes about the president’s briefing habits grew milder. Now the focus had narrowed to Trump’s dislike of written briefings. In early 2018, Pompeo appeared on a panel and made it sound as if everything was normal. As a listener, he said, Trump was “at the same level” as 25-year intelligence veterans: “He’s using it. He’s taking it on board.” He even had examples in which Trump had drilled down into P.D.B. items on Yemen and Venezuela. Pompeo’s interlocutor, the Washington Post columnist and former Bush administration speechwriter Marc Thiessen, seemed convinced. Two days later, he repeated Pompeo’s claims, unchallenged, in The Post. The headline: “Rest Easy About Trump’s Fitness.”Pompeo, one of the last remaining members of Trump’s original White House team, is now secretary of state. As Trump tries to execute some hairpin policy turns, often by tweet, it is Pompeo who travels the world to clean up the wreckage. Gen. Michael Hayden, the former C.I.A. and National Security Agency head, likens him to Winston (the Wolf) Wolfe, Harvey Keitel’s hard-nosed problem-solver in “Pulp Fiction.” It’s the Wolf who is dispatched by the crime boss Marsellus Wallace to deal with an unexpected dead body in the back of his enforcers’ car. “He’s got to clean up Kim Jong-un, because there wasn’t a deal,” Hayden said of Pompeo, referring to the vagueness of the promises that resulted from Trump’s first meeting with the North Korean leader in June 2018. “Now, he’s got to clean up Mohammed bin Salman,” the crown prince of Saudi Arabia accused of ordering the murder of a journalist — a situation with just as much complexity and far less upside.One of Pompeo’s most recent cleanup missions took him to the American University in Cairo, where, on Jan. 10, he delivered a speech titled “A Force for Good: America Reinvigorated in the Middle East.” The speech was supposed to be the centerpiece of a nine-country Middle East trip that Pompeo planned weeks in advance. Initially, he intended to focus his conversations with United States allies on Israeli-Palestinian peace talks and the possible formation of an “Arab NATO” that would save the United States money while encircling Iran. But this had been complicated by a tweet from @realDonaldTrump proclaiming that “We have defeated ISIS in Syria.” Later that day, the commander in chief filmed a video in front of the White House: “Our boys, our young women, our men, they’re all coming back. And they’re coming back now.” So in addition to the usual hand-holding and deal-making of international diplomacy, Pompeo would be doing a lot of explaining to skittish allies. The previous day, he visited with United States troops and Iraqi ministers, flying from Amman to Baghdad to Erbil to Baghdad to Amman, and then to Cairo. Three days in, he was already hoarse; his voice at the lectern sounded like a tire rolling through wet gravel. He is a bearish man — the administration’s backslapping offensive lineman, shorter and rounder than Trump. His face is appealing but not handsome, firm but not unkind. He often looks to be surveying some amber waves of grain; you could imagine his official photo gracing the wall of an Elks lodge or a Cadillac dealership. “He just loves the farm,” Pompeo’s wife, Susan, told me, describing his resemblance to the Kansans on his mother’s side of the family. “Hardiness. Hard-working. Stoic. ‘What do you mean you don’t work past 5:01?’ ”The Cairo speech was designed to serve as, among other things, the Trump administration’s rebuttal to the “New Beginning” speech that Obama gave in Cairo nearly a decade before, which itself had been an attempt to rebuke the mistakes of the Bush administration. The audience was smaller than Obama’s — around 300 in the sterile suburbs of New Cairo, compared with the more than 1,000 who saw Obama at Cairo University in Giza. Pompeo’s crowd was a friendly one, handpicked by the United States Embassy, and a few seats in the venue remained empty. As we waited for Pompeo to enter the room, I was warned, along with other members of the media who were present, not to stray from our assigned area to take part in the general mingling. The constraints were not surprising, given Trump’s own attitude toward the media and his closeness with Abdel Fattah el-Sisi, Egypt’s strongman ruler, who has jailed dozens of reporters and blocked hundreds of websites.The speech that lay before Pompeo on the lectern was an energetic one, laying out a muscular vision of “American power” as a “liberating force.” But Pompeo looked tired, and it wasn’t hard to imagine that some of his weariness was existential. Trump’s Syria announcement had been poorly received by many of his own senior staff members. Secretary of Defense Jim Mattis resigned. Pompeo would now have to spend much of the trip trying to interpret Trump’s intentions in public. He would have to walk a difficult tightrope, respecting Trump’s instincts while channeling them into something coherent. If he failed, United States allies in the region might look elsewhere for protection. In recent months, the leaders of Israel, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates all had meetings with Vladimir Putin.In Cairo, Pompeo tried to spin the announced Syria withdrawal as a sign of renewed American commitment. He said the United States would “use diplomacy and work with our partners to expel every last Iranian boot.” Expelling the last Iranian boot would more likely take years or decades, not the 120 days that was the Pentagon’s interpretation of Trump’s “coming back now.” The genius of the “last Iranian boot” was that Pompeo’s divergence from Trump lay below the surface; the promise of an extended United States presence was never made fully explicit.Pompeo’s rhetoric was at once revolutionary, claiming to be overturning the policies of the Obama years, and institutionalist, claiming to be rooted in some earlier tradition of American goodness. “It was here, here in this city, that another American stood before you,” Pompeo said. Never citing Obama by name, he ran down a list of his errors: failing to connect terrorism with its ideological “Islamist” roots, denigrating America’s post-9/11 conduct and suggesting that “a new beginning” was even necessary. (“I don’t think I ever went to their motivations,” Pompeo told me later. “It was always about how they grabbed the wrong end of the stick.”)It has often fallen to Pompeo to take Trump’s shifting foreign-policy instincts and weave them together into something legible, defensible and sometimes even coherent, all without angering a president who is reputed to interpret disagreement as a form of disloyalty. Trump’s tweets, abrupt changes of mind and penchant for creating staff turmoil combine to make this a Sisyphean endeavor. And yet Pompeo has tenaciously kept on rolling this particular boulder. You can look at most every place where Trump has made a lasting impact on United States foreign policy and find Pompeo not far away: withdrawing from the Paris climate agreement and the Iran nuclear deal; imposing sanctions against the governments of Iran and Venezuela; offering kind words for autocrats in Turkey, Egypt and Saudi Arabia. Pompeo is the primary architect of Trump’s continuing negotiations over the nuclear arsenal controlled by North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un.In the process, he seems to have retained Trump’s loyalty, even as critics of the administration (including Hayden) credit him with having reined in the president’s instinctive isolationism. “He’s an internationalist,” says Barbara Stephenson, a former ambassador to Panama, who leads a professional association for United States foreign-service officers. “He believes American global leadership is a good thing.” But regardless of whether Pompeo’s conduct in the Oval Office is that of a Trump enabler or a Trump whisperer, whether he is a member of Trump’s war cabinet or the last adult in the room, his attempt to weld Trump’s moves into a real doctrine will outlast the presidency that gave birth to it. Whoever winds up inheriting Trump’s foreign-policy legacy will begin in the shadow of Mike Pompeo.Soon after Trump nominated him to lead the State Department, Pompeo arranged a call with each of his living predecessors to ask for their advice. Among them was Hillary Rodham Clinton. As a member of the House Select Committee on Benghazi, Pompeo had called her response to the 2012 attacks “morally reprehensible” and said that it was “worse, in some ways,” than Watergate. During the 2016 campaign, he tweeted out news of hacked emails from Clinton’s campaign with the word “BUSTED.” At the time, he cited as his source WikiLeaks, an organization he later, as C.I.A. director, called a “nonstate hostile intelligence service.” By the time of his call with her, Pompeo’s take on Clinton seemed to have undergone a similarly dramatic reversal. “I want to thank you for your noble service to our country,” he said to her, according to a person familiar with their conversation.“She was most gracious,” Pompeo said, quietly, when I asked him how he had managed to pick up the phone and make the call to a longtime adversary. “I am all about moving forward.”We were sitting in Pompeo’s office on the seventh floor of Main State, the blocky old Harry S. Truman Building in Foggy Bottom, Washington. The room was stuffed with Pompeo-related bric-a-brac — a poster from an oil-supply company Pompeo had led; a gumball machine honoring the Wichita State Shockers; a drawing executed by Pompeo himself, in crayon, at age 8. He was holding a binder-clipped sheaf of what looked to be eight or nine long notecards, with a handwritten list on top. Instead of taking a seat behind his desk, Pompeo had selected a more casual position at a side table opposite the window. He seemed to want to communicate to me that he was still fairly awe-struck by the place. “You see Lincoln,” he said, as he showed me around the office. He pointed to the view of the monuments outside the window. “If you look all the way up, you can see the planes land. Up on the eighth floor, there’s a balcony where we watch fireworks with all the ambassadors on the Fourth of July. And it’s a chance to develop some good relationships.”“No eternal allies and no permanent enemies,” Henry Kissinger’s gloss on realpolitik (borrowed from Lord Palmerston), could also describe Pompeo’s approach to relationships. Former secretaries of state had told him that his success would depend on the strength of his White House ties. “To a person, they began by saying that the most valuable asset you have is your relationship with the president,” he told me. It sounded like a brag, but he hadn’t meant it that way, so he corrected himself. “The most valuable asset to a secretary of state is having a good working relationship with the president. They weren’t referring necessarily to mine.”When he arrived at the State Department in April, Pompeo had the good fortune to directly follow Rex Tillerson, who was widely seen by the career diplomatic corps as having been sent by the White House to restructure the department into oblivion. Tillerson instituted a hiring freeze while he undertook a lengthy “reorganization” to root out “inefficiencies.” More than half the department’s senior-level career diplomats resigned. Pompeo was able to generate almost instant good will by lifting the hiring freeze. He installed the diplomatic equivalent of a four-star general, the career ambassador Dan Smith, to lead the Foreign Service Institute, the department’s in-house training academy. At some points during Tillerson’s tenure, it wasn’t clear who spoke for America. “Save your energy, Rex, we’ll do what has to be done!” Trump tweeted, in the midst of Tillerson’s discussions with North Korea. Tillerson, Trump complained, was “wasting his time trying to negotiate with Little Rocket Man.” The public squabbling aggravated a longtime worry within State that their work simply didn’t matter, having been eclipsed by the gigantic budget of the Pentagon and the superior White House access of the National Security Council. Under Obama, the job of secretary of state went to Hillary Clinton and then to John Kerry (Obama’s second choice), two heavyweight politicians who nevertheless struggled at times to maintain their influence with the president’s core team. Pompeo was the first secretary in many years who seemed to have a bond with the president comparable to Kissinger’s with Nixon. Pompeo’s pull with the White House gave the department a renewed sense of purpose, even among those who differed with Trump on policy.[Read Jason Zengerle’s profile of Rex Tillerson when he was secretary of state.]During his first months in Foggy Bottom, Pompeo identified four priorities — Syria, Iran, North Korea and Afghanistan — and brought in four new special representatives to tackle them and report directly to him. “I go in there with my arguments better prepared than I have at any time in my life,” says Stephen E. Biegun, the special representative for North Korea, when describing Pompeo’s management style. “I feel like I coasted in my previous jobs.” (As Venezuela became a concern, Elliott Abrams was brought on to address the crisis there. During the 1980s, Abrams was a staunch anti-Communist; at the State Department under President Reagan, he gave United States military assistance to Central American leaders who massacred tens of thousands of civilians. In 1991, Abrams pleaded guilty to withholding information from Congress about a secret effort to arm Nicaraguan guerrillas. Pompeo has praised his “passion for the rights and liberties of all peoples.”)In his major policy speeches, like the one in Cairo, Pompeo has situated Trump somewhere between the neoconservative militarism of Paul Wolfowitz and the isolationism of Rand Paul. In so doing, he has helped to coalesce what might be called a frugal-hawk foreign policy, reflecting a new species of Republican leader who wants America to talk tough, avoid war, punish its enemies through economic sanctions and prod allies to pick up a larger share of the tab. In this worldview, only stubbornly anti-American governments like Venezuela’s are castigated for abusing and stealing from their own citizens; the domestic misbehavior of countries like Turkey, Egypt and Saudi Arabia will be ignored so long as their foreign policies remain friendly. Iran, despite its relatively fair elections, did wrong by trying to go nuclear and backing militias that attack United States-allied forces in the region.Much of this vision was put forward in the administration’s National Security Strategy, a document produced during Trump’s first year in office. North Korea, like Iran, is a “rogue regime,” the lowest of the low, but its more advanced nuclear program means it holds a higher hand, so it gets a temporary pass in exchange for ceasing nuclear tests and talking nice about giving up its weapons. Russia and China, for their part, are strategic competitors, the military-industrial complex’s new reason for being as the threat of terrorism fades. America would also make good on its outstanding commitments, including the war against ISIS in Syria and Iraq, to which America would contribute “until they are destroyed.”The frugal-hawk platform is an appealing one for taxpayers who have laid out trillions for post-9/11 military interventions but still can’t stomach the idea of America in full retreat. A good chunk of it isn’t so different from that of the president Trump replaced. In some places, like North Korea, Trump has applied his unorthodox tactics to the establishment’s orthodox goals. In other places, he has tried to color so far outside the lines that his ideas have been either been heavily discounted (exiting Syria now; threatening to leave NATO) or have disappeared completely (a joint investigation with Russian intelligence on United States soil, which Trump endorsed at Helsinki).Trump’s major substantive difference with Obama has been over the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, or J.C.P.O.A., more commonly referred to as “the Iran deal.” Kerry and Obama labored mightily to get France, Russia, China, Britain and Germany on board with having Iran drastically cut its enrichment of uranium in exchange for lifting economic sanctions. Tillerson helped persuade Trump to delay his long-promised exit of the deal; Trump finally exited in May, to the delight of Israel and Saudi Arabia, two countries whose leaders much prefer Trump to Obama.Among former Obama-era officials, there are concerns that Pompeo’s previous role as director of the C.I.A. may have helped him influence Trump’s decision to exit. “On one level, as C.I.A. director, it should have been none of Pompeo’s business to recommend staying or not staying in the deal,” says Tony Blinken, who served as Kerry’s deputy. “His job as C.I.A. director was to give an objective analysis of whether Iran was sticking with its commitments, not whether the U.S. should be in or out. That’s a policy question. That’s not the C.I.A. director’s job.”“I wasn’t the first C.I.A. director to be a former congressman,” Pompeo responded, when I brought up his influence over policy during the interview in his office. He added: “I think it’s pretty clear that the most political C.I.A. director in history was my predecessor” — John Brennan, who has emerged as a vociferous critic of the new administration since leaving office.[Read Mattathias’s profile of John Brennan.]If Pompeo has succeeded in defining Donald Trump’s foreign policy, he has made similar strides in advancing a story about Trump the man that is consistent, if not always convincing. Pompeo’s Trump is the Trump of the National Security Strategy, a wise and clearheaded executive who knows what he wants and has respect for the collaborative nature of statecraft. Pompeo’s Trump is someone who is willing to shame rogue nations with “moral clarity,” just as Ronald Reagan declared his allegiance to the long-suffering people of the Soviet Union by calling out its leadership as “an evil empire.” Trump’s instructions percolate down through his cabinet in the form of something called “commander’s intent,” a military concept used to help units interpret their missions. Even his apparently impulsive tweets, in Pompeo’s telling, are part of a broader campaign of “targeted rhetorical and practical pressure” meant to bring “outlaw regimes” to heel, as Pompeo put it in a Foreign Affairs article. (An administration official elaborated on this account, telling me that some @realDonaldTrump tweets are written at the suggestion of agencies and then workshopped by the White House communications team. Early-morning tweets, they said, are more likely to be unfiltered Trump.)“I’ve spent a lot of time building an understanding of what President Trump’s mission statement is,” Pompeo said. “And therefore, what my mission statement is. Commander’s intent. What is it that we are trying to accomplish, and how is it that we’re going to deliver that for the American people?” To Pompeo’s supporters, his gift for channeling the president’s true intent has helped bring a strong sense of direction to the department. “He builds bonds of mutual respect and common purpose in organizations he leads,” said Gen. H.R. McMaster, Trump’s former national security adviser. “He is comfortable with relinquishing control to those he trusts.” Ulrich Brechbuhl, Pompeo’s counselor at the State Department, who has known him since they attended West Point, says: “He thinks of things in terms of the mission. How do you know if you’ve achieved your mission? What are the resources you need to accomplish the mission? And what is the game plan to apply those resources to the mission?”By statute, the role of foreign-service officers is different from that of soldiers. In addition to following orders, they engage in “policy formulation.” But under Pompeo, State has emphasized unity and obedience in a distinctly military fashion. “We take our direction from the commander in chief,” he wrote in an internal newsletter about a gathering of 185 heads of United States missions around the world called One Team, One Mission, One Future. When Vice President Mike Pence addressed the group at Main State, he called Trump “our one team captain.” He rattled off some marching orders from the commander: The diplomats, whom he called “our front-line emissaries,” were to return to their posts and inform allies that the United States’ Southern border would be secured; that peace would be preserved through the “strongest military in the history of the world”; and that “people of faith” would be championed around the world. “America is back,” he said.Pompeo was born in 1963 in Orange, Calif. His parents, who met through their work, each had a career in aerospace. His father served in the Navy during the Korean War, but Pompeo’s interest in attending West Point was sparked, he said, by a catalog he chanced upon in his high school counselor’s office. “It looked to me to be a very egalitarian place, where if someone went there and did their best and worked hard, you might have a chance of being very, very successful.”While he attended church growing up, his Christian faith intensified at West Point, where he joined a small Bible-study group led by older cadets. He graduated first in his class, in 1986, during the last years of the Cold War. After training, he shipped off to Germany to serve as a second lieutenant in an Army tank unit. Pompeo was stateside when the Berlin Wall fell, but he does remember speaking with a fellow soldier who was there. “He said, ‘They’re only coming one direction.’ Toward freedom, right?” In Pompeo’s view, the Kremlin is still among the authoritarian regimes that the United States needs to call out and shame. “If the people know what it was those governments were up to — in Russia, for example, the corruption that takes place — the people wouldn’t stand for it, and they wouldn’t tolerate it, and they’d seek new leadership.”Pompeo’s unit did not deploy to Iraq for the first gulf war. The military was getting smaller, and there were fewer opportunities to advance, so he left shortly afterward, having done the five years’ service required of West Point graduates. He was accepted to Harvard Law School, where he was mentored by Prof. Mary Ann Glendon, a conservative Catholic who later served under George W. Bush as the United States’ ambassador to the Holy See in Rome.At that time, Pompeo seemed to be headed for conventional success as a corporate lawyer. Then, in the mid-1990s, he made a series of changes: divorcing his wife; leaving his job at a top-flight Washington law firm; and moving to Kansas, to go into business with three of his West Point classmates, including Brechbuhl. The group’s analysis showed a concentration around Wichita of small, valuable aerospace companies owned by families with no succession plans — and so the group set out to acquire some of them. The partners named their company Thayer Aerospace, after an 18th-century brigadier general who was an early West Point superintendent. Among Thayer’s investors were Charles and David Koch, the billionaire brothers who own a controlling share of the privately held Koch Industries and are a dominant force in Kansas politics and the national Republican Party. “Mike is a very determined person,” says Marc Short, who was president of Freedom Partners, a Koch-funded nonprofit, and will soon be chief of staff to Vice President Pence. The Kochs, he says, “were passive investors in Thayer. The introduction came through business circles.”In 2006, Pompeo sold his interest in Thayer and spent the next few years running an oil-field-supply business. He served on the board of a performing-arts center and a Koch-affiliated think tank. In 2000, he married Susan Justice Mostruous, a former Wichita State homecoming queen who worked as a senior vice president at a local bank. Pompeo had some ties to the Wichita area through his mother’s family; Susan knew the local terrain well through her work with alumni groups and charities. Susan had a 9-year-old son, Nick, from her second marriage. Pompeo, who has no other children, legally adopted him as his own. “It was a very personal, emotional moment when we first told Nick that we were going to get married,” Susan told me.In 2010, Pompeo ran for Congress against Raj Goyle. Unlike Pompeo, Goyle, who is Indian-American, grew up in Kansas; Pompeo’s campaign used Goyle’s ethnicity to paint him as an outsider. The campaign’s Facebook and Twitter feeds shared a blog post by a retired Marine that called Goyle a “turban topper” along with “the evil muslim communist USURPER,” President Obama. (The campaign apologized and claimed it had been “inadvertently posted.”) Later, a pro-Pompeo billboard from an outside group urged Kansas to “Vote American.” Goyle told me he faults Pompeo for not condemning the billboard. “Secretary Pompeo is a shrewd politician, and I understand he says that he respects people of all backgrounds,” he said. “But when it counted, his campaign tolerated race-based personal attacks to win an election. I’ve moved on, but I’ll never forget that.”During Obama’s second term, Republican members of Congress with military experience and graduate degrees were looking for places where they could undermine his approach to the Muslim world. Starting in 2015, Pompeo, along with Senator Tom Cotton of Arkansas, another Army-trained, Harvard-educated Tea Party firebrand, began to mount an attack on the administration’s attempts to improve relations with Iran. Pompeo and Cotton went together on an investigative trip to Vienna, which also took them to London, where Cotton and Pompeo met Gina Haspel, the C.I.A. station chief there. Later, Pompeo would recommend Haspel to replace him at as the head of the agency. Cotton told me that their military training taught them to persevere in what they saw as their duty to expose the mistakes of the Obama White House. “You learn to make life-changing decisions on the fly,” he says. “It trains you in boldness, audacity. To always push forward, to stay on offense.”During the 2016 primary, Pompeo initially backed Marco Rubio. He delivered a speech at the Kansas caucus, where he said that “it’s time to turn the lights down on the circus” and even warned, The Wichita Eagle reported, of a potentially authoritarian presidency. But after Trump won the primary, Pompeo moved into the fold, offering advice to Trump’s vice-presidential pick, Mike Pence, on foreign policy. Pompeo rode the elevator up to the president-elect’s suite in Trump Tower the week after the election, and that same week he was announced as the president-elect’s choice at the C.I.A.On Jan. 7 of this year, the secretary and Mrs. Pompeo flew to the Middle East with a packed schedule. Over eight days, there were plans for 13 bilateral meetings, two strategic dialogues, eight working meals and five “meet and greets” with United States Embassy personnel.Pompeo had a lot of work to do. He would be paying respects to small countries (Qatar, Bahrain) that host important United States bases and the big accounts (Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Jordan) that have long acted as United States proxies. To outsiders, the face-to-face interactions that form the heart of diplomacy are a black box. You can try reading something into the arrangement of the seats, the duration of the meetings and the faces of the participants before and after. But it might be years before a full account of what was said emerges.To move Pompeo and his team among all these rooms, he would travel, as every secretary of state does, in a kind of imperial bubble. I was one of eight journalists given a berth within it. Blocks of rooms in luxury hotels are purchased. Highways are closed off for the motorcade’s swift passage. Entire airports are repurposed for the secretary’s plane. Our passports were held by the State Department and returned afterward, full of visas and stamps, despite our never having stopped at a checkpoint or spoken to an immigration official. The world in which statesmen dwell has no borders or walls.A few minutes after takeoff, Pompeo walked back to the reporters’ seats and said he would be carrying a message of ongoing United States commitment to the fight against ISIS and the diplomatic effort against Iran. “Our commitment to support Middle East stability is still full-throttle,” he said. When asked about the withdrawal from Syria, he replied, “We don’t talk about timelines,” his eyes turning downward. His voice took on an edge when he had to repeat the same answer.On Syria, Trump’s team had been quietly nibbling away at the tweeted position of an immediate withdrawal. “There’s no contradiction whatsoever,” Pompeo said two days later, when asked about apparent differences. “This is a story made up by the media.”Pompeo is still learning how to interact with the press, something he didn’t have to do nearly as often at the C.I.A. He’ll often respond to hard questions as if they were rude questions, with the words “ridiculous” or “ludicrous.” For a senior official who is the face of United States foreign policy, the threshold for triggering his temper is unusually low.The outbursts are not random. Pompeo tends to flare up around those issues where the tensions between the president and the diplomatic corps are greatest. “There’s no difference,” Pompeo answered, when I asked why he had referred to “Islamist” terrorism in Cairo instead of the “Islamic” terrorism that Pence and Trump talk about on the stump. But clearly, there is a difference. And a few minutes after Pompeo suggested that his choice of “Islamist” was accidental, a senior State Department official, unaware of the answer Pompeo had just given, told me that “Islamist” was a “deliberate choice” made for the sake of depriving terrorists of religious legitimacy.The next day, after the transcript of my exchange with Pompeo circulated, the senior official revised his answer. “It’s all the same,” he said. “We’re not trying to hide behind words.” The most generous reading of this discrepancy is that the White House simply doesn’t agree with United States allies and counterterrorism experts around the world that the gap between these two words matters. You could also call it “commander’s caprice” — the president’s servants awkwardly jitterbugging as they try to follow the leader.During Pompeo’s speech in Cairo, despite the embassy’s efforts to pack the room, he earned exactly one midspeech burst of applause: after he thanked Sisi, the Egyptian president, “for his courage.” That burst, beginning in the middle of the room and flowing toward the front, where Pompeo’s inner circle was seated, originated with a middle-aged American sitting in the row behind me. He had straw-colored hair, glasses and an easygoing manner. His name was Joel C. Rosenberg. Pompeo, he said, was a fan of his books. Rosenberg told me that Pompeo’s staff had contacted him a few years ago and asked to meet; the two had kept in touch since then. (A person close to Pompeo confirmed that the two men were acquainted, and that Pompeo had read Rosenberg’s books.)Rosenberg is a best-selling author and a powerful force in the evangelical movement. Born to a Jewish father and a Christian mother, he immigrated to Israel and now lives in Jerusalem with his family as a dual citizen. Some of Rosenberg’s books deal with biblical prophecies about the end of the world. Others deal with the future of the Middle East. One work of speculative nonfiction, “Epicenter,” explores connections between the two. When asked on Fox News in 2013 if the Syria conflict could lead to the fulfillment of biblical end-times prophecies from the Books of Isaiah and Jeremiah, he replied, “We don’t know for certain,” adding: “It is possible, because these prophecies have not yet been fulfilled.” Elsewhere, he has suggested that the War of Gog and Magog, an apocalyptic battle prophesied in Ezekiel and Revelation, will involve Jordan, Russia and Iran. He has met personally with the king of Jordan and Mohammed bin Salman. In 2017, he joined an evangelical delegation for a meeting with President Sisi. He is also friendly with Vice President Pence, who showed his family around the West Wing during Trump’s first year in office.Rosenberg and I rode with Pompeo’s motorcade out to an enormous Coptic cathedral in what is slated to become Cairo’s new administrative capital — a vast desert moonscape where Sisi has promised a reported $45 billion of state-planned development. The cathedral is an official gesture of Sisi’s solidarity with Egypt’s Coptic Christians, who have been frequently targeted by terrorists. Even as it has shifted away from calling out authoritarian rulers like Sisi, the Trump administration has emphasized protecting the rights of “religious minorities,” conspicuously Christians in the Middle East — a priority it calls “religious freedom.”After touring the cathedral, Pompeo took one question from the traveling pool on the rights of religious minorities and then gave a longer interview, arranged by Rosenberg, with the Christian Broadcasting Network. “Christianity is at the heart of the history of this place here in the Middle East,” he said. “All you got to do is grab a Bible and read the places and the names.” Before returning to the hotel, he and Susan toured a brand-new mosque a short way up the road. Like the church, he said, it was a place where “the Lord is clearly at work.”Some Democrats have attacked the policy implications of Pompeo’s religiosity. During his confirmation hearing for secretary of state, Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey brought up a 2015 speech that Pompeo gave at Summit Church in Kansas. Speaking with an ease and humor that were missing from his delivery in Cairo, Pompeo had approvingly quoted a pastor who denounced an America where we “worshiped other gods and called it multiculturalism and endorsed perversion and called it an alternative lifestyle.” In response to Booker’s repeatedly demanding a yes-or-no answer to the question of whether he considered homosexuality to be a perversion, Pompeo demurred.A few days after the Cairo speech, in the midst of a strategic dialogue in Qatar, I had the chance to ask Pompeo about his religious views. I brought up another line from the 2015 speech, given at the invitation of Summit’s pastor at the time, Terry Fox. Near the end, Pompeo spoke of “the Rapture,” a term that doesn’t appear in the New Testament but is associated by some evangelicals with passages that presage the end of the world and the bodily ascension of believers into heaven. “We will continue to fight these battles,” Pompeo said in 2015. “It is a never-ending struggle until that moment, folks, Pastor Fox spoke about. Until the Rapture.”“There are 40,000-page treatises on Christianity,” Pompeo explained to me in Qatar. “We are not going to be able to begin to scratch the surface of the question that you just asked me. I am sufficiently humble to recognize that my exegesis of the Bible in 30 seconds is going to fail.”I asked what he meant by the Rapture at the time.“Look, read the book,” he said. “Capital T, capital B.” He brought up the doctrines of human dignity and the Ten Commandments. Without mentioning the Rapture directly, he circled around to the concept of resurrection. “These are central tenets that form the foundation of the faith of Christianity,” he said. “And the central idea that it is through the grace of God we will all accede to heaven. Those are basic conceptions that people have had in mind for thousands of years.”Pompeo “has never wavered in his biblical convictions,” Pastor Fox told me in a phone conversation. “There can be a great cost to any politician who stands on biblical principles. Most people will bend and become more moderate in their strong biblical convictions, with marriage and abortion and things like that. He has not done that. He’s stood strong, no matter what the political cost.”Pompeo, he said, spoke at the church on multiple occasions while in Congress. “We’re proud of him,” Fox said. “He’s not going to force his views on anyone. When he represented Kansas, he represented all people, whether they were Christians or not.”In his reference to the Rapture, Fox said, Pompeo had meant “staying faithful to the word of God. Stay faithful to your beliefs. Until the Lord comes to take us home. The Lord is coming back, and the Christians will be called to meet him in the air. It’s a reference to the Last Days. That’s what he would have meant by that.”The most sensitive bilateral meeting on Pompeo’s schedule was in Saudi Arabia, with Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman. Prince Mohammed, also known as M.B.S., is close to Trump’s son-in-law, Jared Kushner, who sees him as a keystone of a hoped-for Israel-Palestine peace deal. Inconveniently, both for Trump and for the venerable United States-Saudi relationship, M.B.S. also appears to be a murderer. According to the medium-to-high-confidence assessment of the C.I.A., M.B.S. ordered the killing of Jamal Khashoggi, a Saudi dissident, Washington Post contributor and resident of Virginia; the agency has concluded that Khashoggi was lured to the Saudi consulate in Istanbul on Oct. 2 under the pretext of obtaining documents for an impending marriage, then strangled with a plastic bag and cut to pieces with a bone saw. M.B.S.’s responsibility for Khashoggi’s murder is the latest conclusion reached by the United States intelligence community that Trump has been unwilling to accept.Pompeo made his first trip to the Saudi Royal Court to discuss the Khashoggi murder on Oct. 16. Under previous presidents, such a meeting would most likely have been one on one, with Pompeo’s leverage in the room enhanced by Trump’s absence. But on this day, @realDonaldTrump managed to thrust himself into the center of the world-historical spotlight. Somehow, in the middle of the Pompeo-M.B.S. meeting, Trump himself got on the phone with M.B.S. Almost immediately, he tweeted a readout of their exchange. M.B.S. had “totally denied any knowledge of what took place. … Answers will be forthcoming shortly,” he announced. That was four months ago. Trump said that if M.B.S. knew about the murder, “that would be bad,” and then subsequently that “it could very well be that the crown prince had knowledge of this tragic event.”Pompeo implied that the call had been his idea. “I wanted to make sure that the president heard directly from the crown prince,” he told me. “It was important that the two of them connect directly.” The most lasting images from the first Pompeo-M.B.S. meeting were photos of Pompeo, smiling broadly as he sat across from M.B.S. and bantered about jet lag. “He was all smiles and happiness, as though it were not a significant issue for an ally to assassinate an American resident and journalist,” says Senator Jeff Merkley, a Democrat from Oregon.This time, Pompeo seemed intent on at least giving the appearance that M.B.S. didn’t have the White House in his pocket. The Saudi legal process had not yet “hit that threshold of credibility and accountability,” a senior State Department official said during a background call laying out plans for the trip. In Riyadh, the Saudis seemed equally intent on engaging in some chest-thumping. The first sign came moments after landing, when Pompeo was corralled into a four-on-four pull-aside at the airport with M.B.S.’s brother. A spokesman insisted that the meeting was not a surprise, but one of Pompeo’s four, Ambassador David Satterfield, had to dash back across the rugs of the V.I.P. terminal and into the closed chamber where tea was already being poured. The plan had been for Pompeo and M.B.S. to meet that night. We soon learned that the meeting had been pushed back to the following morning.After two hours of breakfasting and waiting around, the motorcade drove from the hotel to the Saudi Royal Court, arriving at its black steel gates eight minutes before 10 in the morning. We crossed two sets of high inner gates, past an armored vehicle with a gun turret and around a large fountain that flowed beneath an enormous Saudi flag hanging slack in the desert air.Walking with Pompeo as he entered the Royal Court was Joe Semrad, his low-key and unfailingly polite special assistant, carrying two zippered black briefcases full of Pompeo’s papers. Just inside the entrance, near the X-ray scanner, there was a raised-voice argument with Saudi security about whether the briefcases could remain in Semrad’s possession. The American chargé d’affaires tried to use his Arabic to intercede with a member of the Saudi Royal Guard. “I speak English!” the guard exclaimed. The Saudis prevailed, and the briefcases were sent back to the motorcade. “I didn’t mean to make such a scene,” Semrad told me later. “They were just doing their job, and I was doing mine.”The interior of the Royal Court has a martial vibe. The octagonal entrance chamber has a model of the old Riyadh fortress at its center. The rugs that lay over the marble floors muffled the sandaled footfalls of the robed and bearded men of the court who stood now in small groups, a safe distance away from the visitors, their heads bent in conversation. Some carried guns; some wore swords. There were no Saudi women to be seen inside the building. The American women dressed modestly, in pants and long-sleeved shirts; they did not cover their heads. Pompeo and his four diplomats were waiting in an antechamber, where they languished for a full 15 minutes before being summoned down a long corridor, smoky with incense, where M.B.S.’s father, King Salman, was waiting. Just as Pompeo extended his right hand for a shake, a courtier relieved the king of his ivory-handled cane.Later, as M.B.S. walked Pompeo to the exit after a private one on one, a Saudi photographer caught the two men walking in sync. M.B.S. looks calm and thoughtful. Pompeo, mid-stride, grins as though he is in the midst of telling a joke. On his own feed, @SecPompeo wore the solemn face of man seeking, as the tweet put it, “accountability” on Khashoggi. He would repeat that word many times over the coming days as Republicans in Congress continued to indicate that they considered the White House line on Khashoggi to be unacceptable.“That’s a ridiculous question,” Pompeo said in mid-February, when asked if he believed the CIA’s assessment that M.B.S. was responsible for the killing. Then, without mentioning M.B.S. by name, he repeated the promises that had been the administration’s line since Trump’s October tweet. The Saudi relationship was important. The murder was bad. The investigation was continuing. “Fact sets” were being developed. “We will hold everyone responsible for the murder of Jamal Khashoggi accountable.”These equivocations made it easy to forget that there had actually been a private conversation between M.B.S. and Pompeo. What happened during their meeting? According to tweets from the Saudi foreign ministry, the two men “reviewed the historic relations between the two friendly countries” and “discussed regional and international developments.” Their side made no mention of Khashoggi.On Feb. 1, I saw Pompeo for the last time in the Treaty Room outside his office. I tried to pin him down regarding Khashoggi and got nowhere.“Are you comfortable,” I asked, “in your heart of hearts, that M.B.S. had nothing to do with the death of this man?”“I know this drives you crazy — I’ve been painfully consistent,” he said, adding: “It’s an outrageous act. It’s unacceptable.”He said this was the official United States position. I said that I wanted Pompeo’s own position.“It’s Mike Pompeo’s position too,” he said. “Secretary of state — it’s my position too. We’re going to hold everyone who was responsible for this accountable. Every time the United States government can determine a set of facts, with sufficient confidence, we’re going to hold everyone who was responsible for this accountable. The president has told me that’s my guidance. And, by the way, told others.” He then referenced the sanctions of 17 Saudi officials that had come from the Treasury Department.“That didn’t sound like a yes or no,” I said. “But I’m happy to leave it — ”“Yes! The answer is yes. No, the answer is yes. Am I comfortable? Yes.”“You are comfortable that he had nothing to do with this?”“No, no, no. No, you — no, you asked if I was comfortable with the U.S. position. At least I understood that to be your question.”“The question was, Are you sure he had nothing to do with this. Your answer didn’t sound like a yes or a no.”“I gave you my answer. My answer is we’re going to hold everyone that we determine is responsible for this accountable in an appropriate way, a way that reflects the best of the United States of America.” There was more back-and-forth. Pompeo declined to offer a timeline on when the government would have a categorical answer on M.B.S. “When we know,” he said. “I don’t want to talk about any particular individual,” he said. “We continue to work it.”In mid-February, after reports that M.B.S. had told an aide he would use “a bullet” on Khashoggi in 2017, I asked Pompeo if he had anything more to say about the murder. His answer, given by email, was almost identical to what he’d told me before. “This is an unacceptable murder,” he said. “President Trump and this administration are committed to holding each individual accountable as we develop fact sets that permit us to do it.”Arguably Pompeo’s greatest test so far as secretary of state is in Hanoi, Vietnam, where Trump has his second meeting with the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un. The meeting is a product of months of intricate negotiations by Pompeo and his team. “Today, if you asked me, I would not say with any conviction that the North Koreans have decided to denuclearize,” says Biegun, the special representative on North Korea. “But our policies are built around the expectation that they can make that decision.”Last year, Trump set a high bar for success — “the complete, verifiable and irreversible denuclearization” of North Korea. Gen. James Clapper, the intelligence chief who handled many of the Obama administration’s negotiations with North Korea, is skeptical that Pompeo and Trump can deliver. “The North Koreans are NOT going to denuclearize,” Clapper wrote to me in an email. “Why would they give up what leverage they have, simply because we demand they do so?” When I asked him to give the Trump administration’s performance a letter grade, he said he would give them “an ‘E’ for effort and, at best, an ‘INC,’ as in incomplete, for results.”“President Trump and I have both been very clear,” Pompeo responded, when I read him Clapper’s critique in early February. “We set about developing a strategy that maximized the likelihood that we would get the outcome that the world wants.”Biegun points to the rapport between Trump and Kim as a positive sign. “At the leader level, the chemistry was quite good,” he says. “I think it was exactly what it looked like.” But the chemistry between the two leaders carries its own risks. Two issues that could arise in the negotiation are a formal end to the Korean War and the withdrawal of United States troops from the peninsula. There are concerns that the administration might give away the first for too little; and that Trump himself could overrule his subordinates, take South Korea by surprise, and put the second on the table. Success was hard to imagine unless Kim Jong-un could be made to read Trump as an equal, strong and unwavering, with the whole of the United States government both firmly under his control and standing squarely behind him. Pompeo could design the set, write a script and block out seats for the players. But in the end, it would be a one on one, and Trump would most likely be ad-libbing.When I sat down for my first interview with Pompeo in his office, his open Bible lay between us on the table. It was well used, with many verses highlighted. A Swiss Army knife marked his place at the end of Esther and the beginning of Job, two books with insight into how to serve a difficult boss. In Job, God is the boss, inflicting his whims on a long-suffering employee who doesn’t know that God is doing all this to win a bet with Satan. In Esther, a vain and fickle king nearly succumbs to the influence of a wicked minister before being tamed with great finesse by Queen Esther, who risks death to get his ear.Along with Vice President Mike Pence and other Trump cabinet members, Pompeo has attended Bible study sessions held in federal offices and led by Ralph Drollinger, the founder of Capitol Ministries. Drollinger has compared Pence to Mordecai, Esther’s uncle and one of the book’s protagonists. Mordecai husbands his influence, remaining loyal to the king even when it looks as if official policy could result in the death of his people. Drollinger has praised Mordecai’s “outward respect for the king, strongly suggesting inward respect, at least for the office”; he “displays a manifest unfaltering loyalty to the country’s civil leader at times when it would have been easy to do otherwise.” Mere displays of loyalty will never suffice. Only an obedient heart can win the king’s favor.“It informs everything I do,” Pompeo said, when I asked him about the Bible. Seeing the pages in question, I tentatively compared Melania Trump to Queen Esther — both were outsiders married to difficult sovereigns, after all, and the first lady’s trip to the Southern border had seemed to coincide with a softening of Trump’s heart regarding the family-separation policy.Pompeo absorbed my dubious analogy while looking down at the book on the table. “There are many lessons,” he said.Mattathias Schwartz is a contributing writer for the magazine who lives in Washington. He previously wrote about John Brennan, the former C.I.A. director.

FeatureWhen the Russian politician Denis Voronenkov was gunned down in Ukraine, officials blamed the Kremlin. The truth was more complicated.A portrait of Voronenkov at his grave in Ukraine last year.CreditCreditSergey Ponomarev for The New York TimesSupported byBy Sarah A. TopolOn the thawing March morning he died, Denis Voronenkov stood on Shevchenko Boulevard, a broad poplar-lined street in central Kiev named after Ukraine’s national poet, his eyes glued to his phone. The 45-year-old former Russian lawmaker and security agent was promoting an interview he had given to a local news site about the life he left behind in Moscow months earlier. Given his past in Russia’s notoriously tight-lipped security services, it was particularly treasonous of him to open his mouth, while the sheer symbolism of his desertion gave his proclamations eminence. “The system is killing people,” he told the journalist, “and the reverse evolution makes the intelligent and worthy either stay silent or flee. I am not the first and I am not the last who tried to gnaw out their place in the sun in Russia.”Voronenkov had seen the transcript of the interview a few nights earlier — quote approval is standard in the Ukrainian press — and told a friend over dinner that it was his best yet. Now that it was online, he sent a short note of thanks to the journalist, Natalia Dvali, telling her the article was “interesting” and “accurate” and closing with a smiley face. Handsome with round cheeks and sandy brown hair, he cut a dapper figure in his finely tailored suits. He presented a specific combination of Russian masculinity — he could be gruff and haughty but also earnest and affable, depending on the setting. He could recline, collar loosened, and speak to citizens about the troubled economy, or he could button up, cross his arms and act dismissively when journalists asked about things he didn’t think they needed to know.Voronenkov was en route to the Premier Palace hotel to meet Ilya Ponomarev, another former member of Russia’s Parliament now living in Ukraine. Ponomarev had taken Voronenkov under his wing in their mutual exile and was helping him compose a filing to Interpol intended to pre-empt a red notice from Russia that would seek his arrest and prevent him from traveling out of Ukraine. Voronenkov told Dvali that he was not afraid of reprisals from Russia — “We all die sooner or later,” he said. “The important thing is how and why we lived” — but privately he was concerned. He had become obsessed with threats emanating from the Russian media, which called him a traitor and rooted for him to “choke on a piece of meat,” and he had personally lobbied the Ukranian government for protection. He strolled down the sidewalk with his bodyguard, while another was at home with his wife and their young son.Voronenkov remained absorbed in his phone as he walked toward the entrance of the hotel, a grand classical building on the corner of Pushkinska Street, named after Russia’s national poet. Neither he nor his bodyguard saw a young man in a gray sweatsuit, black puffy vest and red sneakers emerge from a silver Daewoo Lanos and trot swiftly toward them from behind. Closing the distance, he shouted, and Voronenkov turned around. Security cameras captured grainy images of the scene: The young man pulled out a Soviet-designed TT pistol and fired, sending Voronenkov to the sidewalk, clutching his stomach. The bodyguard rushed the assassin, and as the two men tussled, the gun went off again. The bodyguard fell face down on the pavement. The gunman ran back to Voronenkov and fired multiple rounds, but as he turned to make his escape, the bodyguard, wounded in the torso, sat up, pulled a gun out of his satchel, took aim and shot the assassin.In the hotel’s dark-wood-paneled lobby, Ponomarev realized that Voronenkov was running even later than usual. When calls to his cellphone went unanswered, Ponomarev contacted a Ukrainian official, who told him his friend had been shot. He rushed out to find a crowd of onlookers gathered around the three men. Ukraine’s prosecutor general, Yuri Lutsenko, along with the director of Ukraine’s security service, the chief of police and the chief military prosecutor, arrived at the scene and stood around the cordon tape amid the assembling TV cameras. Voronenkov’s wife, Maria Maksakova, was the last to arrive, dressed in all black. Until that moment, she later told me, she hoped her husband was simply injured. But when she saw his body, riddled by six bullets, with multiple wounds through his chest and head, she crumpled.As the bodyguard and the assassin were taken to the hospital, both still alive, officials announced the motive. “He had provided investigators of the military prosecutor’s office with highly important testimony,” Lutsenko said at the crime scene. “This was a typical show execution of a witness by the Kremlin.” Three and a half hours after the shooting, President Petro Poroshenko issued his own statement: “It is obviously the handwriting of Russian special services.”The next day, March 24, 2017, the killer was identified as Pavlo Parshov — a 28-year-old far-right Ukrainian nationalist who served in the National Guard and was wanted in a money-laundering case. Known to his friends by his nom de guerre, the Boxer, he died in custody at the intensive-care unit.The Boxer never said a word.Voronenkov was only the second sitting member of Parliament to have fled Russia while still in office and publicly oppose the government. The first, Ponomarev, arrived in Kiev about a year earlier. But while Ponomarev had been an outspoken critic in Moscow, Voronenkov lent his voice to the opposition only after crossing the border into Ukraine. The two countries had been locked in confrontation since 2014, when popular protests in Kiev forced President Viktor Yanukovych, a Kremlin ally, to flee to Russia, which then moved to annex the Crimean Peninsula. Voronenkov traded his Russian citizenship for a Ukrainian passport, gave closed testimony in Yanukovych’s treason trial and embarked on an impassioned media campaign.The picture Voronenkov painted of the system of control in Russia — referred to by Russians as sistema — was not just of some nameless and faceless cabal. Voronenkov had rubbed shoulders with President Vladimir Putin’s closest associates. He peppered his speeches with insider anecdotes about the Kremlin elite — including Putin confidants like Vladislav Surkov, the Kremlin’s “gray cardinal.” He pulled up his pant leg in front of a TV camera to show scars from what he said was an assassination attempt that he earned by fighting corruption. Russia, painted as a grotesque demon by commentators in Ukraine and the West, was darker still in Voronenkov’s telling. “The F.S.B. runs the world,” he said in his first interview in Kiev, describing the successor agency to the K.G.B. “The current situation in Russia is reminiscent of Nazi Germany during Hitler’s rule. Everyone knew he was killing the Jews but continued cooperating with him for many years, acting as if nothing was happening. The entire country went crazy in the pseudopatriotic frenzy.”The lead investigator into Voronenkov’s murder was Pavlo Kononenko, deputy prosecutor for Kiev. Kononenko could watch Russian television and read the country’s press, which contained myriad articles about Voronenkov’s life in Moscow, but diplomatic relations between the two countries have ceased and he could not question anyone there. Voronenkov had become an object of fascination in his own country — trashy programs looped on prime-time television, speculating on his career, the insincerity of his marriage to Maksakova and the involvement of the C.I.A. or its Ukrainian analogue, the S.B.U., in a setup. Television presenters interviewed guests who were sure that Voronenkov had undergone plastic surgery and was alive and well in Tel Aviv.When I met Kononenko in his downtown office, he walked me through his investigation. He was focused on the gunman and his accomplices — right-wing ultranationalists who lived in a constellation of ramshackle towns in central Ukraine. Since 2016, Ukraine had experienced a surge of unexplained deaths, nearly a dozen in all, and Kiev had come to feel like a city of assassins in waiting. Ukraine immediately blamed Moscow for all the murders, but none were definitively linked to the Kremlin; most remain unsolved. Russian media outlets used the incidents to portray Ukraine as a warning of what happens to a nation when masses mobilize: instability, chaos and right-wing fanatics terrorizing citizens in the streets. Ukraine, meanwhile, saw the killings as more evidence of Russia terrorizing its population, after centuries of oppression and the recent war in Ukraine’s east, which has killed more than 10,000 people.A large Ukrainian flag hung in one corner of Kononenko’s office, while the country’s coat of arms — a gold trident on an azure background — was mounted on the wall above his neatly arranged desk. He covered the table between us in charts, photographs and stills from surveillance footage of the assassin and his accomplices moving through Kiev. “We analyzed around three terabytes of information received from video control cameras and mobile-phone connection traffic,” he said. The S.B.U. tapped its network of informers. “Everyone worked with their agents, developing connections of our potential persons involved, trying to understand. Who could prompt them to perform this crime? Who could have been the customer? Who could have been assisting them?”Kononenko assured me that he had done his best to comb through Voronenkov’s life despite the obstacles presented to him. Before he was murdered, Voronenkov had offered his own theories about who might want him dead. In his Interpol filing, he wrote that as a member of the Federal Drug Control Service, the F.S.K.N., Russia’s equivalent of the D.E.A., he led an investigative unit that helped crack a sprawling corruption case known as Three Whales, which has been called “the criminal case of the Vladimir Putin era.” More than a dozen high-ranking officials, including F.S.B. generals, were dismissed as a result of the investigation. Voronenkov said that the security services retaliated against him; in particular, he claimed that his work had drawn the ire of a notorious F.S.B. general named Oleg Feoktistov, who was known in Russia for his involvement in cases that brought down prominent officials. Feoktistov’s mentor was dislodged in the raid, and Voronenkov said Feoktistov pledged vengeance. In the end, it was the general’s plot, according to Voronenkov, that cost him his homeland and forced him to Ukraine.By the time I met with Kononenko, I had been to Moscow in search of facts about Voronenkov, while well aware that they might be difficult to find; even if they did exist, I was certain I would find only shards of them. I spoke to Russian officials, lawmakers in the Duma, lawyers, businessmen and former security service officers. Few were eager to sit down with me. As one former security service member put it: “Unlike you, we live in a country where you can get seriously hurt for words. It is one thing for you to get a correct image, and it is another thing for me to spoil my life.”Nearly everyone said Voronenkov was not the man he claimed to be. With uncanny regularity, they compared him to a fictional character in satirical Russian literature named Ostap Bender, a charlatan who traveled the country fleecing unsuspecting victims, seeking a score big enough to flee to Brazil. “Just show me a rich person, and I’ll take his money from him,” Bender tells a protégé. “I personally know 400 relatively honest methods of taking money. That’s not a problem.” While Bender had exposed the idiocies of Communist policy, Voronenkov’s tale, to those who know contemporary Russia, illuminated the chaos of Putin’s sistema: the personal rivalries, criminals, elites, crooks and clans trying to keep from running afoul of the country’s ever-shifting red lines. “It’s an absolutely unimaginable biography, even for Russia,” said Andrei Kolesnikov of the Carnegie Moscow Center, shaking his head at the information I presented him. “It means he was in the center of different kinds of communications — the mixture of criminal activity and state activity.”“He’s a horse in a vacuum,” said Roman Rubanov, the director of the opposition leader Aleksei Navalny’s Anti-Corruption Foundation, using a Russian expression. “A story which perfectly characterizes and summarizes everything that is happening in this country.”Sitting in Kononenko’s office, I chronicled my attempts to look into Voronenkov and understand why he might have been killed. Kononenko eyed me with frustration and a tinge of pity. He had given me hours of his time, but we went back and forth about even the most basic parts of Voronenkov’s biography. Between us lay an unspoken question: Why go to such lengths to understand the truth of a man’s life when the story of his death was already decided?Voronenkov would come to represent a new kind of figure on the international stage: an adhocrat, someone who moved fluidly between the worlds of intelligence, crime and politics. These are people like Natalia Veselnitskaya, the Russian lawyer who met with Donald Trump Jr. at Trump Tower, who have political connections that can be leveraged but never officially proved. Essentially conduits, they are especially useful in places with diffuse centers of power, where everyone is busy trying to anticipate the leader’s whims. “You have business elite and political elite that in some ways fuse together with the upper levels of the criminal elite,” said Mark Galeotti, a senior fellow at the Royal United Services Institute in London. “You have corruption, violence and all kinds of other activities baked into the political and business system. Therefore, when something happens, it begs this question: Why? Who was in charge?”Voronenkov arrived in Moscow at the turn of the century from humble origins in Nizhny Novgorod, a city on the banks of the Volga River. I heard various rumors that he was estranged from his mother, that his father, a military man, died in a fire. He graduated from a prestigious military academy and claimed to have earned a law degree; he then quickly attained a coveted job in the Duma, while at the same time supposedly earning a Ph.D. In 2000, a little-known former F.S.B. director named Vladimir Putin assumed the presidency, yet the city was still very much a product of the freewheeling transition from the Soviet Union. Under Boris Yeltsin, shrewd operators found riches as state-controlled entities were privatized. A combination of back-room deals and lethal opportunism had turned toy sellers into industry titans, mathematicians into owners of TV channels.In his official biography, Voronenkov lists a series of overlapping jobs he held — deputy mayor of Naryan-Mar in the Arctic Circle, law professor in St. Petersburg and adviser to the judicial department under the supreme court in Moscow. No one in Moscow told me about any work he did in those positions or how he handled what would have been a 3,500-mile triangular commute. Instead, I heard stories of his time as a “fixer.”In Russia, fixers use their connections to solve problems — an impending court case, a sentence, a regulatory problem, a distribution issue. Nearly anything can be “fixed” if you speak to the right person and offer some money to smooth things over. “In Russia, corruption is not ‘corruption’ — it’s an element of work in this system,” said Svetlana Barsukova, a professor at the Higher School of Economics in Moscow. “It’s colossal money. On the one hand, it allows people working in low levels of the hierarchy to earn extra money apart from their salaries. On the other, it seems to me it’s the condition of their membership in this system.”I heard about a series of jobs Voronenkov took on, not always successfully. He created identities, feigned friendships and dropped the names of powerful connections to dupe people into paying him to solve their problems. He left in his wake a series of very unhappy customers. I spoke to a businessman who claims he paid $80,000 to Voronenkov and an associate to take care of a distribution problem. “He was at the beginning of his way,” the businessman told me. “You could feel his potential already. He was a very talented swindler.” Another prominent entrepreneur said he was asked for $800,000 to “settle issues with the Ministry of Internal Affairs,” issues that he later learned probably did not exist.Most aggrieved, perhaps, was Mikhail Ignatov, a police officer who arrested Voronenkov on fraud charges. Within weeks, Ignatov was the one under investigation. He eventually spent nearly three years in pretrial detention on bribery allegations, done in, he says, by a false accusation drummed up by Voronenkov and his associates. Like most of Voronenkov’s victims, he expressed an odd admiration for the man’s cunning: “He knew how to nicely gain someone’s trust, how to nicely persuade people,” he told me. “It was impossible not to believe him. He made it look like everything was due to him, that he was the only savior. He was, you know, like a savior who came down from heaven.”It was unclear if Voronenkov was working alone or with a krysha — literally a “roof,” a higher-ranking official who protects the fixer and receives a share of the profits. After a few years in Moscow, Voronenkov had amassed a sizable amount of money from graft and had become part of the lawless opportunism of the previous era that Putin promised to root out when he came to power. “Russia needs strong state power and must have it,” read a manifesto on the eve of Putin’s presidential election. To accomplish his goal, Putin relied at least in part on the institution with which he was most familiar: the security services, which had given him his start.In 2003, an undercover operative from the Ministry of Interior named Alexander Sharkevich was assigned to trace networks of corruption in the government. (Putin’s so-called fight against corruption was also a convenient cover for the drive against various political or financial enemies.) Sharkevich, acting under cover, says he approached a former general under the pretense of needing a client sprung from prison; the general referred him to Voronenkov. The fee was $1 million.As the two men met and discussed the deal over weeks and then months, Voronenkov charmed the man assigned to ensnare him. Most of the fixers Sharkevich knew were careless, chasing their next payment, but Voronenkov was ambitious. He invested in himself. He dressed in expensive clothes. He had a collection of tourbillon watches and the latest stylish haircut. “He knew how to connect people, how to bring money and power together,” Sharkevich said. “That’s why it was beneficial for any official to have him close, and he roamed from one official to another, higher and higher.”The two men met in gaudy restaurants; they shot target practice at Voronenkov’s summer house outside the city. “We didn’t discuss his childhood, because he didn’t want to,” Sharkevich told me. “It was a very hard childhood, and it was a closed subject for him. He was full of complexes, very strongly. As I understand, he had a very poor childhood, very little money; the family was poor. That’s why internally he was strongly motivated to become a rich man.”After about a year, Voronenkov caught on that Sharkevich was an undercover agent, while Sharkevich learned that Voronenkov “fixed” through contacts at the Moscow city prosecutor’s office. (The head of the office at that time denied any affiliation with Voronenkov.) As Sharkevich’s higher-ups learned more about Voronenkov’s connections, they asked to meet with him for a potential position at the ministry. Voronenkov jumped at the chance. But there was a problem: His résumé was a sham. “He has a double and triple biography,” Sharkevich told me. “All his diplomas are falsified, absolutely all.” Sharkevich said that Voronenkov attended the elite military academy but that “all the rest is a lie — either a lie or half a lie.” (I had been told by many that Voronenkov’s thesis papers were plagiarized and that his advanced degree was purchased, a common practice in Russia during the 1990s and 2000s. Putin himself has a “candidate of economic science” degree awarded by the St. Petersburg Mining Institute but never actually attended the institute and had no previous background in the topic.)After Voronenkov was rejected from the ministry, he disappeared, Sharkevich told me, taking a third of the payment meant to entrap him. Only later did he realize that Voronenkov had been studying him. “Our meeting changed my life, very strongly, and it changed his life,” Sharkevich said. “He wanted to become me.” Voronenkov had been fascinated by the power of the security services: the IDs that let Sharkevich walk into different offices under assumed names, the papers that prevented his car from being searched by the police, the gun awarded for honorary service to the nation. Six years later, Sharkevich says, he was jailed for Voronenkov’s theft, and Voronenkov had found a position in the security services.“I lost my job and three years of my life,” Sharkevich told me. “When I was released and wanted to meet him, I was told that I shouldn’t because Voronenkov had become a very big person. There is the State Duma, epaulets, patrons and so on, and it will hurt me.”While Sharkevich was in prison, his mother died, and he didn’t have a chance to say goodbye. He made a vow, when he got out, to find the right people and tell them the truth about who Voronenkov really was.Gen. Alexander Bulbov, the former deputy director of the F.S.K.N., told me that when the agency hired Voronenkov, it didn’t know about his forged academic past. In fact, when we met, Bulbov brought up Voronenkov’s educational achievements as one of the few things he still thought his former protégé could be lauded for. When I mentioned the forgery, Bulbov admitted that perhaps his team hadn’t properly vetted every agent. Perhaps, he said, it had been too busy staffing up.The agency was headed by one of Putin’s friends from his days at the K.G.B. in St. Petersburg, part of a larger strategy Putin employed of stacking competing services with loyalists who would report on one another to him. By the time Voronenkov joined F.S.K.N. in 2006, Putin had handed it the notorious Three Whales file. The case, under investigation by various ministries and security organs since 2000, got its name from a showroom of a furniture company that had been underdeclaring the value of imported furniture and making tens of millions in profit. One of the chief security officers who worked with the company was also the father of the deputy director of the F.S.B. As the investigation grew to involve as many as five agencies, chaos erupted — grenades thrown into cars, armed standoffs at furniture warehouses, hospitalizations and a mysterious death that looked a lot like poisoning. Three Whales was the opening salvo in a battle between Russian security agencies that spanned more than a decade and came to be known as the siloviki wars. Putin was the sole referee.Voronenkov joined F.S.K.N. at the time Three Whales was coming to its conclusion. He had written in his Interpol filing that he was “appointed to lead an operational investigations group” that solved the case. Maksakova, Voronenkov’s widow, provided me his F.S.K.N. ID, which listed his position as a director of an investigations group, but she did not have paperwork tying his name to Three Whales itself, and plenty of people I spoke to who worked on the case, and had seen various paperwork related to it, insisted that he played no part in the affair. Viktor Cherkesov, a former director of the F.S.K.N. who served in Parliament alongside Voronenkov, repeatedly declined requests for an interview; only Bulbov could confirm whether he had a role.When I met Bulbov at the office of a Duma member he now advises, he sat beside a dainty porcelain tea set at a dark wooden conference table. With heavily lidded eyes and a soft, slow voice incongruous to his size, he was clearly unhappy to find himself sitting across from an American journalist. He sighed and fiddled with the tea set. At his most exasperated, he called me a term of endearment — “my little berry” — and wondered why Americans would care about Voronenkov in the slightest; he wasn’t important, he assured me.He was adamant that Voronenkov wasn’t a lead investigator. He was, Bulbov said, just an “ordinary employee.” Bulbov admitted that there was no way he could prove on paper that Voronenkov had fabricated his role, but he offered as evidence the fact that everyone involved in the case from the F.S.K.N. became targets in a retaliation campaign by the F.S.B. Bulbov himself had been arrested at a Moscow airport with three others on charges of extortion, accepting bribes and illegal wiretapping. “The entire operative group that was involved in this case was arrested. Voronenkov was never arrested, was never interrogated, was never called. Never at any point were there ever any questions to him about this, and that’s why [he wasn’t involved]. How else can you confirm and prove it?” Bulbov challenged. “There was no relation to anything with Three Whales that Voronenkov ever had.”Bulbov served his time in prison, and when he was released, he announced that he would return to the agency the next working day. It’s worth noting that almost every man I spoke to in Moscow had charges levied against him or served time in jail. All of them suggested to me that they were imprisoned not for their crimes but because their enemies were better connected — a vortex of loyalties with Putin at its center.Voronenkov was waiting for Bulbov when he got out. Voronenkov had always been solicitous of the general’s attention; now he proved himself loyal. He invited Bulbov to his home; their wives became friends. Voronenkov, Bulbov said, was a doting father to his three children and a good husband to his wife at the time, Julia (who declined a request for an interview). By all accounts, the couple lived well. Voronenkov had a driver, vacationed frequently in Europe and owned property inside and outside Moscow.Bulbov remained well connected politically after prison, and when an old friend, the head of the Communist Party, approached him asking for candidates for the 2011 parliamentary elections, Bulbov recommended his acolyte. In Russia, top placement on a party list in a district where the party was strong is a near guarantee of victory. There were rumors that Bulbov and Voronenkov were profiting on various “fixing” arrangements together, but Bulbov denies that accusation, as well as the assertion that Voronenkov paid for his endorsement. “I thought he was deserving,” he told me. Voronenkov won easily.Voronenkov entered the Duma in late December 2011, taking his office on the ninth floor of the gray-and-glass block in central Moscow. By then, Putin had been in power for more than a decade (though his title of president would be interrupted by a four-year stint as prime minister, out of respect for the illusion of term limits), and the governing body had been transformed into a rubber stamp of his will. Voronenkov was like most of today’s Communist Party representatives — rich businessmen who play the role of opposition and provide a release valve for the older generation of Soviet nostalgists. The Duma retained the trappings of legislative power — marble staircases, ornate chandeliers, thick red carpets — but it had become an aquarium, brightly colored fish swimming in circles but getting nowhere.During Voronenkov’s first year in office, he called Bulbov constantly to keep him informed of his work and travels. His colleagues say he was a natural. “We probably did not have as many deputies as active as him, who would travel with pleasure and campaign throughout the country for us,” said Sergey Obukhov, secretary of the Communist Party’s Central Committee. I asked if anyone had to teach Voronenkov how to govern. “How can you teach a person who has a doctorate in law?” Obukhov responded, referring to Voronenkov’s purchased degrees. “He understood everything. He published books. He wrote books — well, I don’t know he himself or not. Well, it’s not important. Books were published under his name.”By the time Voronenkov entered the Duma, according to those I spoke to, his fixing had grown more brazen and commanded higher and higher prices. One lawyer told me he referred clients to Voronenkov around that time. He said he was paid in “suitcases full of cash.” (The lawyer did not want to be named for concern over his employment.)Voronenkov went on to gain the distinction of being included on an anti-corruption watchdog’s list of the “poorest” Duma deputies, based on his publicly disclosed income filings and assets. “The value of the assets of the Voronenkov family is close to a billion rubles,” wrote Aleksei Navalny, the Russian opposition leader whose group compiled the list. “At the same time, the official claims that he earns two million rubles a year. With such a family income, Voronenkov needs 500 years of continuous work to allow him to buy everything he has declared.”Voronenkov now had no fewer than five apartments, two garages and a huge country house on a salary that would have been worth about $45,000 in 2015. One property was on Tverskaya Street — Moscow’s Fifth Avenue — the value of which, Navalny estimated, was $5.3 million. He had a Mercedes S350, a Bentley Continental, two Range Rovers and a Land Cruiser. When the list was published in 2015, Navalny’s employees heard Voronenkov had been thrilled to be included. It offered a scorecard of his rise from the provinces and a perverse kind of protection: The Kremlin would never bend to Navalny’s accusations.In the end, the deal that ruined Voronenkov was unremarkable. In fact, the scheme is so ubiquitous in Russia as to earn its own word, reiderstvo, which essentially means the theft of a business or property. An individual or a group will work with corrupt judges, administrators and the police to help shift the title into their own name, either through forgery or stock-purchase chicanery. Victims included Moscow’s planetarium, oil-and-gas companies, a firm making orthopedics and an airport. Raids often seemed to happen overnight — a company that existed one day would belong to someone else by morning, much to the puzzlement of employees and the owners. Though some cases were fought in court, most victims were left no alternative but to accept their fate.The target, in this instance, according to court documents, was a single building. Voronenkov, who is not named but is referred to as a person with “special” status because of his parliamentary immunity, along with his co-conspirators, used their contacts with the government and law enforcement to switch the building’s ownership for a fee. Voronenkov found a businessman to front their scam for $2 million, who could flip the building for $5 million. The documents show that Voronenkov did not split the profits evenly, instead keeping $1.2 million for himself. The owner of the building found out, and soon there was an investigation. Voronenkov’s co-conspirators, including the man who fronted the operation, would spend time in prison.I met one of those co-conspirators, Andrei Murzikov, in a restaurant in Moscow. The former F.S.B. officer looked the part — his muscled bulk was rounded with age, his hair closely cropped and slightly balding on top. He seemed as if he could easily break an arm. Murzikov showed me a photograph of his motorcycle, which has a large American flag attached to the back. He likes driving it around Moscow, he told me, to enrage Muscovites and entertain American tourists. “Everyone comes up to me, and I punch them all,” he said. I wasn’t sure he was speaking in jest. He said he had spent a month and half traveling around the United States, visiting a dozen cities on both coasts. He didn’t find it to be such a bad place. “They know what tomorrow will be like, if you follow all the rules and don’t go with your ass before your face,” he told me, seeming slightly wistful.Murzikov denies having anything to do with the building heist, though he pleaded guilty to all charges and admitted helping Voronenkov smuggle illegal pistols from Austria. “There are no innocent people there,” he said. “You are guilty just because you got into such a situation. That’s why we confessed to the crime. We confessed that we were crooks.” Then he giggled, as if he were still surprised it happened. “I still want to go and look at that building, just to see what it looks like,” he told me, and giggled again.When the story of the reiderstvo hit the papers, Voronenkov met with investigators twice but declined to do so again. So long as he was a member of the Duma, he received immunity from criminal prosecution. By then, Bulbov and Voronenkov had grown very close. The two men traveled to Russia’s cosmodrome in Kazakhstan in 2012 to watch a space launch. They took their families and got drunk waiting for humans to ascend to the unknown. Bulbov took Voronenkov home with him to his ancestral village in the Russian exclave of Kaliningrad, where Voronenkov drank so much he became emotional. He spoke, haltingly and through tears, about how he never had a real family or ancestral identity.But now, Bulbov said he was starting to hear things from all sides. He heard that Voronenkov was “fixing” using Bulbov’s name. When Voronenkov assured him that he had nothing to do with the reiderstvo, Bulbov wasn’t sure what to make of it. He advised Voronenkov to continue to testify. If he was innocent, why hide behind his Duma immunity? Bulbov told me he used his own network to look into the case and found Voronenkov guilty, perhaps not as accused, but far more involved than Voronenkov claimed.As his name was being dragged through the press, Voronenkov threw himself into what was expected of him as a member of Putin’s Duma. He was desperate to keep his immunity and avoid jail time. In his Interpol filing, Voronenkov wrote that he was known for protecting the “rights and freedoms of citizens.” But in fact, during those years, he sponsored amendments to Russia’s media law that barred foreign investors from holding more than a 20 percent stake in any outlet, gutting the country’s independent press. (“The government should immediately repeal the law before Russia’s once vibrant and diverse media market is devastated and freedom of expression is strangled,” Human Rights Watch warned.) He was an author of a law that clamped down on companies and individuals using offshore tax shelters, forcing Russians to return their funds to the motherland. (Two years later, Voronenkov himself would be named in the Panama Papers for having an offshore account of his own.) He supported the annexation of Crimea in 2014, which passed on a vote of 443 to 1. (At the time, Voronenkov went further than merely voting with the masses; he visited the peninsula and tweeted two photographs with the caption: “Photographs from a trip to Crimea, I was struck by its beauty. I fully support its accession to Russia!”)The last time Bulbov saw Voronenkov was in 2015. The men hadn’t spoken for about a year. Voronenkov had left his wife for Maksakova, an opera singer and Duma member from Putin’s United Russia party. The couple visited Bulbov to invite him to their wedding, a historic interparty union that had been announced in the golden halls of the Duma.I met Maksakova at a high-end restaurant in Kiev five months after Voronenkov’s murder. By the time we spoke, she had lost weight and cut her blond hair short. She told me that when she met Voronenkov, she had recently emerged from a relationship with a notorious mafia boss named Vladimir Tyurin. She said she barely escaped her mafioso ex. “My ribs were broken, dislocated jaw, patches of my hair were torn out, concussion of some degree and all the rest,” she told me. Being a member of the Duma offered her an escape. “For me, it was a way to shield myself from danger. It was a lucky charm. I became for him totally unreachable.” (Tyurin’s lawyer, Sergey Belyak, told me that he did not know whether Tyurin beat Maksakova, but he suggested that the matter was better suited for divorce court.)Maksakova told me that she fell for Voronenkov while on a Duma delegation trip to Japan. He treated her with respect and reminded her of Daniel Craig in the latest Bond film. “He had the physical abilities,” she said. “I don’t know anyone else like him.”Maksakova came from a famous family of performers stretching back generations. She had hosted a TV show, recorded pop songs and performed as a soprano in the renowned Mariinsky Theater. She had access through friends to some of the highest-ranking members of Putin’s inner circle, and she said she tried everything she could think of to protect her new husband from allegations that he assured her were phony. “There wasn’t a single person in my circle whom I wouldn’t be begging to help him — not a single one,” Maksakova told me. “As long as there is no political will in the particular case, it is useless,” she said, drawing out the word in her silky cadence.Bulbov turned down the wedding invitation. And for the September 2016 election, Voronenkov wasn’t placed on the Communist Party’s list of candidates. It was obvious he would lose. At a campaign event, he played to one of Russia’s more peculiar new historical revisions; he explained that Maksakova’s grandmother was rumored to have been Joseph Stalin’s favorite opera singer. She had gone to her deathbed without telling Maksakova’s mother who her real father was. Maksakova was pregnant, and Voronenkov posed to reporters the possibility of exhuming Stalin’s remains for a DNA test. “Maybe he will be the descendant of Stalin?” he said. “These days in our country, he’s personality No.1.”The night of his election loss, Maksakova told me, he was distraught. He lay in bed awake, staring at the ceiling silently, while Maksakova consoled him. “Denis, listen, life goes on. Look, I’m with you. I’ll never leave you, no matter where life takes us,” she said. “We’ll deal with all this. What can we do? Why are you so sad?” His choice was clear: flee or face prison.It was a warm day in mid-September when Ponomorev and Voronenkov sat on the terrace of Korona, a restaurant in Kiev with white tablecloths, expensive crystalware and hookahs. Ukraine offered plenty of opportunities for the more unsavory activities in Voronenkov’s portfolio. Not long ago, the two countries’ security agencies, politicians and organized-crime rings held the same passports and answered to the same leaders. To date — and despite the conflict — Russia and Ukraine share cross-border businesses and illicit networks and have mirror images of the same types of corruption schemes. (Ukraine and Russia run neck and neck in Transparency International’s global corruption index.)Voronenkov still had a few months of his Duma term left, at which point his immunity would expire. Maksakova had a German passport, though it is technically illegal for Duma members to hold dual citizenship. Ponomarev asked why they didn’t just move to Munich.“I don’t want to live at the expense of my wife,” Ponomarev recalls Voronenkov saying. “She would tour the world singing, and I will just live on her money? The only thing I know how to do is to be an investigator. Do you think I can be an investigator here?”Ponomarev had heard about Voronenkov’s reputation as a fixer and dirty dealer, but he told me that he decided Voronenkov’s value as a symbol of regime defection outweighed his reputation. “He’s not an angel,” Ponomarev told me. “He’s a security guy, and you know how those things work in Russia. I cannot say this for sure, but of course he’s not a crook to the degree that it was portrayed. That’s a discreditation campaign run by the F.S.B.” Ponomarev thought he might even prove useful as an actual investigator of Russia’s dealings in Ukraine, given his connections to the security services and the criminal class.“There would obviously be distrust, but eventually you can do it,” Ponomarev told him. “You realize you’re buying a ticket to war?”“That’s exactly what I want,” Voronenkov said.Voronenkov kept his status secret while he moved his assets from Moscow to Ukraine, but in January, a Russian journalist confirmed that Voronenkov was the second Russian lawmaker to testify in the Yanukovych treason case. Social media exploded with vitriol, as Ukrainian journalists and activists began asking why their country had given refuge to a Putin crony. It was then that Voronenkov dedicated himself to yet another reinvention.Voronenkov and Ponomarev discussed general messaging strategy. As a Russian person in Ukraine, Ponomarev explained, you should take care never to say things like “Ukraine must”; instead, use phrases like “I would recommend” or “I would think it would be better to.” When saying “Ukrainian” in Russian, stress the last syllable — UkrainSKI, instead of UkRAINski, as it is pronounced in literary Russian. Never “the Ukraine”; always, “in Ukraine.”Voronenkov’s first interviews were works in progress. Confronted with his social-media posts about Crimea, he said his Twitter account had been hacked. As for his vote on annexation, he started by denying he had voted yes, only to change course and say he had been forced to do it. Not everyone in the press bought his explanations, but he was slowly getting better, more polished in his presentation. The interview with Dvali, his last in the Ukrainian press, was indeed his best. Less than two hours after it was published, he was dead.In September 2017, the Ukrainian prosecutor’s office held a news conference to announce the results of its investigation. Lutsenko, Kononenko and Ponomarev lined up in front of the cameras to announce that law enforcement had solved the case. Under F.S.B. direction, they explained, Vladimir Tyurin — Maksakova’s former partner — hired three Ukrainian radicals through his criminal network: the shooter, whose nom de guerre was the Boxer; an associate, called the Hunter; and the driver, Yaroslav Tarasenko, who was arrested in June but maintained his innocence. “The heads of the F.S.B., together with the heads of the criminal world of Russia, had prepared actions toward the murder — or elimination, from their point of view — of an incredibly valuable witness,” Lutsenko began. (The prosecutor’s office denied my request to speak to Tarasenko, but I traveled to his hometown and spoke to his mother, his girlfriend and friends, who maintain that the Ukrainian government is setting him up.)A little more than a week later, I sat down with Ukrainian officials to understand how they had traced the chain from petty criminals in Ukraine to the ex-partner Russian mafia don to the F.S.B. They repeated Voronenkov’s story about the embittered general, Oleg Feoktistov, and his vendetta against Voronenkov. I wanted to understand if they really knew who Voronenkov was. When we spoke earlier in the summer, the Ukrainian Ministry of Internal Affairs spokesman described the operation as “Russian hands in Ukrainian gloves.” After the announcement, they were walking back their claim that it was a Kremlin hit, but only vaguely. I asked the prosecutor general, Lutsenko, for any evidence they had that the F.S.B. or Feoktistov had played any role. “We have proof only against Mr. Tyurin, concerning his personal participation in this conspiracy,” he said. “All the rest are theories, which I offered.”But what separated this theory from all the other conspiracies swirling around the case? Did they have any proof? “We have no proof that they met and made arrangements, paid money or organized the purchase of weapons,” Lutsenko said.Lutsenko repeatedly held up Voronenkov as a valuable witness in the Yanukovych trial. But a Ukrainian journalist shared a copy of his testimony with me. Neither of us found anything revelatory in it. The closest thing to a bombshell was a letter that Voronenkov had referred to — one sent from Yanukovych to Putin begging for troops in his fight to stay in power — but that same letter had already been waved around at the United Nations by Russia’s delegate. At the news conference announcing the results of the investigation, Lutsenko held firm that Voronenkov was a truth teller, citing his testimony in yet another case of Russian aggression in Ukraine. “Elimination of such a witness and in such a case could have surely resulted in a nexus of a criminal boss with the special services,” he told me. (Tyurin’s lawyer denied that his client had anything to do with the murder. “If he really wanted to kill Voronenkov, he would have done it while Denis and Maria were still living in Russia.” A request for an interview with Feoktistov sent to the F.S.B. was never answered.)The Ukrainian prosecutor’s theory seemed to make sense, and yet when one looked at it closely, its underlying logic seemed to color, flare and disintegrate, like a paper held too close to a flame. It was a combination of things the investigators could prove and things they wished to be true, and it relied primarily on a host of assumptions about Russia that were advantageous for Ukraine to promote: Russia as a monolith, with all power flowing in and out of the Kremlin. This myth has flourished in part because everyone has an interest in promoting it: The Ukrainians get their villain; the Kremlin gets a reputation for fearsomeness and efficiency.To the contrary, the story of Denis Voronenkov is about something else entirely: a story of the chaos at the heart of the sistema, the Darwinian chaos Voronenkov himself exploited, mastered and was ultimately felled by. The ambiguity bred by such bedlam now stood in the way of us ever really understanding who or what was truly responsible for his death. It was strange that Voronenkov was unable to find his way out of the building raid, uncharacteristic of him to get burned by something so simple — was it the sum of all the people he had double-crossed? Had someone he swindled hired an assassin to kill him? Maksakova herself did not believe the Ukrainian government’s theory. She thought that her husband had been killed in a hit that involved the wealthy businessman from the building raid, whose lawyer denied that he played any role.During my meeting with Kononenko, I asked whether they could really take Voronenkov’s own account of his travails at face value, knowing his biography and the lies that had built it. The investigator seemed genuinely empathetic to my distress. “There is such a concept of being friends against someone. This is true in this situation,” he said. “Crystal-clean people will not escape to here, same as from here to there. Each has their mercenary interests. We are compelled to use these mercenary interests because they are to our advantage, so we do it. What else to do?” He continued: “I don’t have the right to tell you about this. I am talking as a politician to you. I shouldn’t be doing this.”In the end, none of it seemed to matter. It was in death that Voronenkov achieved his final rebirth. Days after his murder, the Western press trumpeted the assassination of a political dissident and hero: “The Brazen Killing of a Putin Critic Fuels Suspicion of the Kremlin”; “The Russian Regime’s Critics Are Falling Dead, but Their Discontent Can’t Be Killed”; “McCain Accuses Russia of ‘State Terrorism’ Over Political Murder.”General Bulbov ran his large palms along his thighs. He asked me why I couldn’t just write a nice story about Russian-American relations, maybe about the space station. Did I plan to create a hero out of Voronenkov or an antihero? Did I plan to write that all Russian security services are corrupt?Bulbov knew the sistema as well as anyone. As Putin supposedly said: “It’s better to be hanged for loyalty than be rewarded for betrayal.” Bulbov had served his time in prison. Throughout it all, and to this day, he maintains his innocence — but he was not angry, or at least he didn’t show it. He seemed to have come to peace with the price he had to pay. Voronenkov, to a man like that, was a coward. “I warmed a snake on my bosom,” Bulbov told me. “It’s my job to study people and understand who they are. Until today, I can’t forgive myself,” he said. “I missed the enemy at my back.”As we spoke, Bulbov doodled in his notebook. He carefully drew lines that he connected into boxes; inside the boxes, he wrote numbers, then he crossed them out in rich blue ink. He seemed not to want to be there, but he also seemed desperate to convince me of something. We sat for hours. Voronenkov had done something unforgivable: He was a traitor. He had found wealth and status; he married fame. In rising so high, he knew the arrangement — you may steal a certain amount, but no more than that. You may make deals, but know that someone can always pull the rug out from under you.Bulbov was trapped in his own box: He could not suggest that the system that had jailed him for three years while encouraging Voronenkov by rewarding his crimes, allowing him into F.S.K.N., catapulting him in the Duma, was a terrible one, because that too would be treasonous. He couldn’t tell me that Voronenkov had to go sit out his time in jail for the building raid, regardless of whether he was guilty, because that was part of the bargain. He could not say that Voronenkov was killed by Russia, but it wasn’t the authorities who signed his death warrant. That bore Voronenkov’s own signature. The general could not say that the Russian system is an ouroboros — it must consume itself in order to survive.Sarah A. Topol is a contributing writer for the magazine. Her last article, about Nigerian boys abducted by Boko Haram, received a citation from the Overseas Press Club for best international reporting on human rights and was a finalist for the 2018 Dart Award for excellence in coverage of trauma.This article was reported with support from the International Women’s Media Foundation.This article was reported with support from the International Women’s Media Foundation.

