Supported byBy Karen WeiseSEATTLE — Microsoft took control of 99 websites that it said Iranian hackers had used to try to steal sensitive information from targets in the United States, according to court documents unsealed Wednesday.By taking over the sites, Microsoft can stop future cyberattacks and monitor how previously infected computers were compromised, the company said.The hackers “specifically directed” their attacks on people in Washington, Microsoft said in the filing. The hacking group typically has targeted the personal email accounts of people working in both the public and private sectors, including dissidents and workers in government agencies, Microsoft said in court documents.People working in the Treasury Department and similar agencies in other Western governments were among those targeted, according to a person with knowledge of the attacks who spoke on the condition of anonymity.The Treasury Department, which did not immediately respond to a request for comment, oversees economic sanctions against Iran.Microsoft sued the hackers in the United States District Court in Washington and asked to gain control of the sites, saying the hackers had harmed its brand and the value of its trademarks by impersonating its products to trick victims. On March 15, Judge Amy Berman Jackson granted a temporary restraining order that let Microsoft take over the websites.Microsoft said the hacking group, which it calls Phosphorus but is also known as APT 35 and Charming Kitten, had been linked to Iran. The group uses a technique known as spear phishing, sending email and social media links to victims while imitating the personas of people or institutions they may know. That either prompts the users to click on links that install malware that lets the hackers spy on the victims’ computers, or prompts the victims to enter their login credentials, which the hackers then later use to log in to official systems.The Iranian hackers faked the look and language of several Microsoft products, including LinkedIn, OneDrive and Hotmail, Microsoft said in the documents.By seizing the sites, Microsoft set up what is known as a “sinkhole,” which lets it monitor the traffic that otherwise would have been captured by the hackers.“While we’ve used daily security analytics tracking to stop individual Phosphorus attacks and notify impacted customers, the action we executed last week enabled us to take control of websites that are core to its operations,” Tom Burt, a Microsoft security executive, said in a blog post.Microsoft has used this legal and technical approach before, including for fighting the botnets that spit out spam email. It also used the approach against Fancy Bear, a hacking group widely considered to be affiliated with Russian intelligence, which Microsoft said had targeted think tanks and political groups in the United States and Europe.

Supported byNonfictionWhen you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.By Matt ApuzzoBREAKING AND ENTERING The Extraordinary Story of a Hacker Called Alien By Jeremy N. Smith 292 pp. Houghton Mifflin Harcourt. $28.When the F.B.I. warned the Democratic National Committee that hackers had broken into its system before the 2016 elections, the help desk dismissed it as a potential prank call. And when the Russians used a phony Google alert to try to snatch the email password from Hillary Clinton’s campaign chairman, the I.T. guy incorrectly said the warning was legitimate.In “Breaking and Entering: The Extraordinary Story of a Hacker Called ‘Alien,’” Jeremy N. Smith tells a tale of computer intrigue, but not through the eyes of the black hats whose misdeeds have dominated recent political news. Instead, Smith wants you to meet the people behind the help desk — the tech gurus and security consultants standing between us and digital carnage.With his 1989 best seller “The Cuckoo’s Egg,” the author Clifford Stoll demonstrated that the lowly computer technician can make a wonderful hero. He described tracking Russian spies across networks and solving an espionage mystery of the early internet era. Without such a singular case to crack, however, Smith must rely on the career trajectory of a cybersecurity expert to propel the story.That’s a lot to ask. When someone from your I.T. department sends an email telling you to change your password, does anyone stop and think, “I bet that guy has an interesting story!” Smith addresses this problem head-on, making clear at the onset that we are not talking about just any computer geek. We meet our leather-clad hero — a woman nicknamed Alien who runs a boutique cybersecurity firm — as she swaggers through a Las Vegas hacking conference. And Smith poses the story’s central question: How did she get to be such a badass?Despite the book’s subtitle, however, the answer turns out to be more predictable than extraordinary. Alien studied computer science at M.I.T. and parlayed a connection there into a job at Los Alamos National Laboratory, which launched her into the information security world.Further complicating things, Smith gives every character and company a pseudonym and changes the locations of key events. We are told this is to protect their privacy, but the effect is that Alien, on whom so much is riding, feels distant. This distance is compounded by the fact that “Breaking and Entering” includes long stretches of dialogue and precise details from decades-old events. When you never quite know how much about a character is fictionalized, such precision can make the scenes feel reimagined.Smith’s writing style, though, is crisp as he charts the course of Alien’s life in a series of vignettes, from uncertain undergraduate to successful business owner. The structure works because Smith is a lively storyteller. We are in capable hands as Alien tests corporate security by crafting phishing emails and schmoozing her way into executive suites to steal computers.But the format is also restrictive. Alien came of age during the birth of the modern information security age, and at times I wished we could have stepped back a bit from her story to see the bigger picture. Instead, tethered to Alien, we can see only as far as she can in the moment.For instance, Alien experiences several gut-punch reminders that she is a woman in a male-dominated industry. She is saddled with administrative tasks. A male peer introduces her as a “junior consultant.” And a roomful of men eye her with curiosity at a conference. These moments cry out for a pause, some context, a bit of reflection on the security industry in the #MeToo moment. But instead we are whisked off to the next vignette.The story offers just enough technological details to establish its bona fides without slowing its pace. It is a difficult balance. Alien’s social-engineering techniques have been detailed in books by and about the hacker Kevin Mitnick and elsewhere, and will come as no surprise to tech-savvy or security-conscious readers. More casual readers will get an introduction to that world, but not a guide to help them understand it.Which is a shame, since the real Alien — she is easily identifiable if one is so inclined — has a well-earned reputation as an expert in her field. Her work is taught at universities, bar associations and the world’s top conferences. She is, as Smith set out to show, a security badass. Yet we hear very little from her in the present. The focus on how she got there is interesting, and at times quite fun, but it comes at the expense of the wisdom she acquired on the journey.If there’s one lesson to be learned from Alien’s story, it is this: As Russian hackers challenge democracies and criminal attacks turn our personal data into commodities, we cannot turn to technology to save us. Security is only as strong as the employee who tapes his passwords to his cubicle, the overworked guard at the front desk and, yes, the person on the other end of the line when you call the help desk.Matt Apuzzo, an international investigative correspondent for The Times, is the co-author of “Enemies Within: Inside the NYPD’s Secret Spying Unit and Bin Laden’s Final Plot Against America.”

Supported byBy Nicole PerlrothSAN FRANCISCO — Businesses and government agencies in the United States have been targeted in aggressive attacks by Iranian and Chinese hackers who security experts believe have been energized by President Trump’s withdrawal from the Iran nuclear deal last year and his trade conflicts with China.Recent Iranian attacks on American banks, businesses and government agencies have been more extensive than previously reported. Dozens of corporations and multiple United States agencies have been hit, according to seven people briefed on the episodes who were not authorized to discuss them publicly.The attacks, attributed to Iran by analysts at the National Security Agency and the private security firm FireEye, prompted an emergency order by the Department of Homeland Security during the government shutdown last month.The Iranian attacks coincide with a renewed Chinese offensive geared toward stealing trade and military secrets from American military contractors and technology companies, according to nine intelligence officials, private security researchers and lawyers familiar with the attacks who discussed them on the condition of anonymity because of confidentiality agreements.A summary of an intelligence briefing read to The New York Times said that Boeing, General Electric Aviation and T-Mobile were among the recent targets of Chinese industrial-espionage efforts. The companies all declined to discuss the threats, and it is not clear if any of the hacks were successful.Chinese cyberespionage cooled four years ago after President Barack Obama and President Xi Jinping of China reached a landmark deal to stop hacks meant to steal trade secrets.But the 2015 agreement appears to have been unofficially canceled amid the continuing trade tension between the United States and China, the intelligence officials and private security researchers said. Chinese hacks have returned to earlier levels, although they are now stealthier and more sophisticated.“Cyber is one of the ways adversaries can attack us and retaliate in effective and nasty ways that are well below the threshold of an armed attack or laws of war,” said Joel Brenner, a former leader of United States counterintelligence under the director of national intelligence.Federal agencies and private companies are back to where they were five years ago: battling increasingly sophisticated, government-affiliated hackers from China and Iran — in addition to fighting constant efforts out of Russia — who hope to steal trade and military secrets and sow mayhem. And it appears the hackers substantially improved their skills during the lull.Russia is still considered America’s foremost hacking adversary. In addition to meddling widely and spreading disinformation during United States elections, Russian hackers are believed to have launched attacks on nuclear plants, the electrical grid and other targets.Threats from China and Iran never stopped entirely, but Iranian hackers became much less active after the nuclear deal was signed in 2015. And for about 18 months, intelligence officials concluded, Beijing backed off its 10-year online effort to steal trade secrets.But Chinese hackers have resumed carrying out commercially motivated attacks, security researchers and data-protection lawyers said. A priority for the hackers, researchers said, is supporting Beijing’s five-year economic plan, which is meant to make China a leader in artificial intelligence and other cutting-edge technologies.“Some of the recent intelligence collection has been for military purposes or preparing for some future cyber conflict, but a lot of the recent theft is driven by the demands of the five-year plan and other technology strategies,” said Adam Segal, the director of the cyberspace program at the Council on Foreign Relations. “They always intended on coming back.”Officials at the Chinese embassy in Washington did not respond to a request for comment.Mr. Segal and other Chinese security experts said attacks that once would have been conducted by hackers in China’s People’s Liberation Army are now being run by China’s Ministry of State Security.These hackers are better at covering their tracks. Rather than going at targets directly, they have used a side door of sorts by breaking into the networks of the targets’ suppliers. They have also avoided using malware commonly attributed to China, relying instead on encrypting traffic, erasing server logs and other obfuscation tactics.“The fingerprint of Chinese operations today is much different,” said Priscilla Moriuchi, who once ran the National Security Agency’s East Asia and Pacific cyber threats division. Her duties there included determining whether Beijing was abiding by the 2015 agreement’s terms. “These groups care about attribution. They don’t want to get caught.”It is difficult to quantify the number of industrial-espionage attacks, in part because they have been designed mostly to steal strategic trade secrets, not the kind of personal information about customers and employees that companies must disclose. Only Airbus has acknowledged in recent weeks that Chinese hackers had penetrated its databases.Many of the attacks by the Chinese Ministry of State Security have been against strategic targets like internet service providers with access to hundreds of thousands, if not millions, of corporate and government networks.Last week, Ms. Moriuchi, who is now a threat director at the cybersecurity firm Recorded Future, released a report on a yearlong, stealth campaign by the ministry to hack internet service providers in Western Europe and the United States and their customers.The lone hacking target to publicly confront the ministry was Visma, a Norwegian internet service provider with 850,000 customers. The goal of the attack on Visma was to gain broad access to its customers’ intellectual property, strategic plans and emails, including those of an American law firm that handles intellectual property matters for clients in the automotive, biomedical, pharmaceutical and tech sectors, according to Recorded Future.The Visma attack was harder to trace than earlier incidents, which typically started with so-called spearphishing emails meant to steal personal credentials. This assault began with stolen credentials for a third-party software service, Citrix. And instead of using malware easily traced to China, the attackers used malware available on the so-called Dark Web that could have come from anywhere. They also used the online storage service Dropbox to move stolen emails and files.Federal agencies are also trying to fend off new Iranian espionage campaigns.After  the Trump administration pulled out of the nuclear deal, Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, testified before Congress that her agency was “anticipating it’s a possibility” that Iran would resort to hacking attacks.The Iranian attacks, which hit more than a half-dozen federal agencies last month, still caught the department off guard. Security researchers said the hacks, which exploited underlying weaknesses in the internet’s backbone, were continuing and were more damaging and widespread than agency officials had acknowledged.Iranian hackers began their latest wave of attacks in Persian Gulf states last year. Since then, they have expanded to 80 targets — including internet service providers, telecommunications companies and government agencies — in 12 European countries and the United States, according to researchers at FireEye, which first reported the attacks last month.The current hacks are harder to catch than previous Iranian attacks. Instead of hitting victims directly, FireEye researchers said, Iranian hackers have been going after the internet’s core routing system, intercepting traffic between so-called domain name registrars. Once they intercepted their target’s customer web traffic, they used stolen login credentials to gain access to their victims’ emails. (Domain name registrars hold the keys to hundreds, perhaps thousands, of companies’ websites.)“They’re taking whole mailboxes of data,” said Benjamin Read, a senior manager of cyberespionage analysis at FireEye. Mr. Read said Iranian hackers had targeted police forces, intelligence agencies and foreign ministries, indicating a classic, state-backed espionage campaign rather than a criminal, profit-seeking motive.There is a long history of Iranian attacks against the United States, and episodes from five years back or longer are just now being made public.On Wednesday, the Justice Department announced an indictment against a former Air Force intelligence specialist, Monica Witt, on charges of helping Iran with an online espionage campaign. Four members of Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps were also charged with “computer intrusions and aggravated identity theft” directed at members of the United States intelligence community.Also last week, the Treasury said it was putting sanctions on two Iranian companies, New Horizon Organization and Net Peygard Samavat Company, and several people linked to them. Treasury officials said New Horizon set up annual conferences where Iran could recruit and collect intelligence from foreign attendees.Ms. Witt attended one of the conferences, the indictment says. Net Peygard used information she provided to begin a campaign in 2014 to track the online activities of United States government and military personnel, Treasury officials said.Representatives for Iran’s Mission to the United Nations did not respond to requests for comment.The recent Iranian attacks have unnerved American officials. But after issuing the emergency order about the ones last month, the Department of Homeland Security’s Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency has largely played them down.An official with the cybersecurity agency said there was a belief that no information had been stolen and that the attacks had not “materially impacted” operations. But Mr. Read of FireEye and others said there had been a noticeable escalation in Iran’s digital espionage.“If you tell the Iranians you’re going to walk out on the agreement and do everything you can to undermine their government,” said Mr. Brenner, the former counterintelligence official, “you can’t be surprised if they attack our government networks.”Follow Nicole Perlroth on Twitter: @nicoleperlrothJulian Barnes contributed reporting from Washington, and Sheera Frenkel from New York.

Supported byBy Adam GoldmanA proliferation of digital spying tools in recent years has helped generate a surge in sophisticated espionage operations, once mostly the purview of major powers like the United States and Russia. Now, small countries, corporations and even simply wealthy people looking to settle scores can all hire private firms to conduct intelligence operations.A New York Times investigation detailed this new era of digital warfare and the multibillion-dollar industry behind it. Two firms — NSO, an Israeli company, and DarkMatter, based in the United Arab Emirates — have hired former government hackers to help their government clients not only hack criminal elements like terrorist groups and drug cartels but in some cases to also act on darker impulses, targeting activists and journalists.[Hackers for hire: How former American and Israeli government operatives conduct espionage on behalf of authoritarian governments]Governments rely on surveillance as part of legitimate law enforcement investigations. NSO, selling technology created by graduates of Intelligence Unit 8200 — Israel’s equivalent of the National Security Agency — says it “helps government agencies prevent and investigate terrorism and crime to save thousands of lives around the globe.” Mexican officials have credited NSO technology as pivotal in helping to track and capture El Chapo, the drug lord convicted in New York last month. DarkMatter helps with internal security in the United Arab Emirates, former employees said, thwarting terrorism and helping the police solve crimes.But the Mexican government is also suspected of using NSO tools to spy on its own citizens, including journalists and activists. Saudi Arabia was also accused in a lawsuit of using NSO tools to spy on associates of Jamal Khashoggi, the Washington Post columnist who was killed in October by Saudi operatives in the kingdom’s embassy in Istanbul.The government of the United Arab Emirates used both DarkMatter and NSO tools to spy on Ahmed Mansoor, a prominent human rights activist, The Times found.The proliferation of companies trying to compete in what Moody’s estimates is a $12 billion market for so-called lawful intercept spyware has set off a fierce competition to hire American, Israeli and Russian veterans of the world’s most sophisticated intelligence agencies — and for the companies to poach talent from one another.NSO’s business model appears to be paying off. Francisco Partners, a private equity firm, purchased a 70 percent stake in the company for $130 million six years ago. This year, NSO had a valuation of just under $1 billion.F.B.I. agents and federal prosecutors in Washington are trying to determine whether any Americans working for DarkMatter broke United States law. Investigators are examining whether DarkMatter employees committed internet fraud if they hacked into American servers or email accounts such as Google or Yahoo or whether they violated export laws.The Americans, some of whom worked for the N.S.A. and the C.I.A., should have sought an export license from the United States government when they accepted jobs at DarkMatter, according to people familiar with the investigation. But DarkMatter defenders say foreign companies do not need to apply for an export license and the Americans provided no technical data or secret tools to the Emirati government, nor were they engaged in training or assisting Emirati military forces.“It’s a dangerous area,” said Edward Y. Kim, a former federal prosecutor who was the co-chief of the complex fraud and cybercrime unit in the United States attorney’s office in Manhattan. “I think, sometimes, you have folks who come from that the national security side who are adept at the technical aspects of the work but not the legal complications.”Follow Adam Goldman on Twitter: @adamgoldmanNYT.

Supported byBitsBy Nicole PerlrothEach week, technology reporters and columnists from The New York Times review the week’s news, offering analysis and maybe a joke or two about the most important developments in the tech industry. Want this newsletter in your inbox? Sign up here.Hello, dear readers! I’m Nicole Perlroth, cybersecurity reporter here at The Times. I’m afraid the week’s news isn’t all unicorns and rainbows.This should come as a shock to no one, but President Trump’s confrontational diplomacy has energized state hackers in Iran and China. They are targeting companies and government agencies in the United States with renewed gusto, after a multiyear lull. The rebound in activity comes on top of the continuing threat from Russians, who have already started hacking European civil society groups before elections there in May.Consider this a preview of 2020.With the United States pulling out of the nuclear deal with Iran, Iranian hackers are hitting American banks, businesses and federal agencies with cyberattacks. They’ve significantly stepped up their game: harder to track down and more effective.We’re no longer talking so-called denial-of-service attacks that make websites hiccup. They’re exploiting weaknesses in the internet’s backbone to steal web traffic as it passes between government agencies, banks and businesses that manage their back-end infrastructure.The attacks rattled Homeland Security officials, who triggered an emergency alert during the government shutdown last month. Security researchers say that the attacks have not relented and that they’re hitting American targets with an unnerving success rate.The news out of China is even more troubling. Mr. Trump’s trade confrontations with Beijing have energized state hackers in Beijing, who have renewed attacks on American businesses, especially in high-tech and defense companies.Chinese industrial espionage notably dropped after President Barack Obama and President Xi Jinping of China reached a 2015 deal to cease cybertheft of trade secrets. Now, the gloves are off.Miriam Wugmeister, a cybersecurity specialist at the law firm Morrison Foerster, told me that Fortune 500 companies were being hit at “shockingly high” rates.It’s rare that victims step forward — state laws require companies to disclose breaches only if personal data is compromised — but T-Mobile, Boeing and General Electric Aviation are among the companies in the crossfire.If that’s not worrying you, consider my colleague Sui-Lee Wee’s blockbuster report Thursday on China’s campaign to build a DNA database, in part to track and suppress China’s minority Uighur population. Beijing could not have pulled this off without a big helping hand from Thermo Fisher, a Massachusetts equipment maker, and genetic material provided by a prominent Yale University researcher who says he was unaware the material was used as a surveillance tool.In other news:■ Lyft is racing to beat Uber to an initial public offering, my colleagues Mike Isaac and Kate Conger reported. Lyft is hoping to debut on the Nasdaq at a $20 billion to $25 billion valuation before it’s overshadowed by its bigger ride-hailing competitor, Uber, which bankers initially pegged at a $120 billion valuation.■ Google is losing advertisers after a YouTuber posted video showing the prevalence of pedophiles who comment on videos of children doing regular activities like gymnastics or stretching. My colleagues Dai Wakabayashi and Sapna Maheshwari reported that major brands like Nestlé and Epic Games have pulled advertising after users flagged their ads on children’s videos targeted by pedophiles.YouTube and other big tech companies are already under fire for failing to aggressively police their platforms. Last month, YouTube said it had tweaked its algorithm to stop recommending conspiracy theories to users. This past week, my colleague Kevin Roose wrote a terrific piece outlining one of the central challenges for the company: Some of YouTube’s biggest stars (and ad magnets) push conspiracies.Google is hardly the only company struggling with misinformation. This month, The Guardian discovered that YouTube’s recommendation algorithms and Facebook’s search results were still steering viewers from fact-based medical information to anti-vaccine misinformation. All this as the Pacific Northwest is still reeling from an emergency measles outbreak.■ Karl Lagerfeld, the fashion icon, died in Paris on Tuesday. True to form, no obituary had an accurate read on his age, though The Times noted he was “generally thought to be 85.”A tech newsletter this depressing would not be complete without my favorite Lagerfeld quote: “Sweatpants are a sign of defeat. You lost control of your life, so you bought some sweatpants.” (Thank God Karl Lagerfeld never set foot in Silicon Valley.)Nicole Perlroth writes about cybersecurity in the Times’s San Francisco bureau. Follow her here on Twitter: @nicoleperlroth.

Supported byBy Karen WeiseSEATTLE — A group of hackers associated with Russian intelligence targeted civil society groups across Europe ahead of May elections there, Microsoft said on Tuesday.The attacks, disclosed by Microsoft in a blog post, demonstrate the continuing spread of a broad online campaign aimed at disrupting real and potential political opponents of Russia’s president, Vladimir V. Putin. The company said it had found that hackers targeted more than 100 email accounts at think tanks and nongovernmental organizations that work on issues including election security, nuclear policy and foreign relations.Microsoft didn’t address what country the attacks came from, but it blamed a group of hackers sometimes called Fancy Bear. Online security companies have identified Fancy Bear as a Russian group, and it is widely believed to be tied to Russian intelligence.Fancy Bear was involved in the 2016 hacking of the Democratic National Committee in the United States, according to the party and security researchers. Last year, the American authorities indicted 12 Russian intelligence officers related to the hacks of the party headquarters and the Clinton presidential campaign.Russian officials have denied that Moscow had any role in the hacking attempts.Despite scrutiny of groups like Fancy Bear, the attacks have continued. Last year, the same hacking group similarly targeted Republican think tanks that had criticized President Trump before the midterm elections in the United States. Microsoft also detected those as part of its cybersecurity operations.Increasingly the attacks have also targeted groups that are not directly involved in elections but seek to steer debate or focus on specific targets, as both the 2018 attacks and the new attacks disclosed in Europe show.Microsoft said the latest attacks had taken place in advance of the European Parliament elections, which are set for May, “as well as several key national elections.”The company said the attacks occurred between September and December and took the form of spearfishing campaigns. Spearfishing involves sending emails that appear to come from legitimate sources to get users to click the links inside. If a user clicks those links, hackers can install malware, steal passwords or conduct other online mischief.The German Council on Foreign Relations, the European offices of the Aspen Institute and the German Marshall Fund of the United States were among the groups that were targeted and agreed to be disclosed, Microsoft said.In a statement on its website, the German Marshall Fund said groups beyond candidates and their political campaign managers must be increasingly vigilant.“Everything we do as an organization, from our policy research to our work strengthening civil society, is dedicated to advancing and protecting democratic values,” it said. “The announcement serves as a reminder that the assault on these values is real and relentless.”The other groups could not immediately be reached for comment.The targeted research institutes have done work related to issues important to Russian policy and its continuing use of misinformation to influence elections. The German Marshall Fund, for example, has investigated Russia’s use of social media to spread political messages in its favor in various elections in Europe. The German Council on Foreign Relations has published reports related to arms control and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, which has been at odds with Russia.Microsoft has been tracking the increase in hacking attempts by nation states, including Russians, as part of its Defending Democracy Program, which it announced last year to provide protection to candidates, political parties and nongovernmental organizations working in the field of elections.It said it was expanding its AccountGuard cybersecurity service free to campaigns and nongovernmental organizations that use its Office 365 software in 12 new European markets to protect against these kinds of hacks.A Microsoft executive, Tom Burt, said in the blog post that Europe was the birthplace of democracy, and that “as the ongoing attacks demonstrate, this idea is increasingly under threat.”

Supported byBy Adam SegalMr. Segal is the author of “The Hacked World Order.”President Trump recently accused the Chinese of interfering in American politics ahead of the midterm elections. “They do not want me or us to win because I am the first president to ever challenge China on trade,” he said, addressing the United Nations Security Council. He provided no evidence, and appeared to be complaining mostly about retaliatory tariffs by the Chinese government, which may hurt constituencies that support him, and an advertorial touting U.S.-China trade in an Iowa newspaper.In a speech to the Hudson Institute on Thursday, Vice President Mike Pence doubled down on the accusation, arguing that China “has initiated an unprecedented effort to influence American public opinion, the 2018 elections and the environment leading into the 2020 presidential elections.” Neither the president nor the vice president charged China with stealing and releasing politically sensitive emails or manipulating social media, as the Russian government appears to have done to sway the 2016 presidential election.And the Chinese government has not yet tried to use cyberspace to disrupt American elections, it seems. Yet the threat is real.China has both the playbook and the capacity to interfere. Chinese entities operating with the assent of the government in Beijing already have mounted long-running cyberespionage campaigns against United States government agencies, the defense industry and American private companies. And they have conducted disruptive cyberattacks on political processes and social media campaigns in targets the Chinese government considers internal: Tibet, Hong Kong and Taiwan.In 2012, during a wave of self-immolations by Tibetans protesting Chinese repression, online discussions using the hashtag #FreeTibet were often drowned out by bots and fake Twitter accounts. It is difficult to tie Beijing directly to the bots, but there is good reason to suspect a connection given that government-supported hackers have targeted Tibetan activists and exiles before then and since.During the 2014 Umbrella Movement, a series of protests calling for more direct democracy in Hong Kong, Chinese hackers with suspected ties to intelligence agencies infected the devices of activists with spyware. They also conducted denial-of-service attacks on Apple Daily, a newspaper critical of Beijing, and on an academic website that was carrying out a civic referendum about expanding voting rights in Hong Kong.Chinese hackers have often used Taiwan to test cyber espionage techniques that are later deployed against other targets, and they appear to being doing the same with online influence operations.Beijing is suspected of being behind a disinformation campaign last year that claimed that the government of President Tsai Ing-wen in Taiwan. was planning to strictly regulate Buddhist and Taoist temples and ban the burning of incense. The government denied having any such intentions, but temple owners from across the island held protests in Taipei, believing the fake policy announcement.In July, the website of the ruling Democratic Progressive Party was hacked. Legislators from the party have complained about the proliferation of online trolling and fake news campaigns originating from China in the run-up to local elections — and ahead of Taiwan’s 2020 presidential race.Seen from Beijing’s vantage point, these operations are responses to internal threats. And so far China doesn’t seem to have intervened in another country’s elections through online attacks.Perhaps this is because it has other means of influence at its disposal. Money, political and academic exchanges, the mobilization of Chinese communities overseas, the expanding reach of state media — all have been effective ways of promoting China’s interests abroad.Compared with their Russian counterparts, Chinese intelligence officers historically have pursued their country’s foreign policy objectives by cultivating long-term relationships rather than through disinformation. Russian operations tend to heighten political divisions to drive a wedge in the target society: Russia-linked bots pushed both pro- and anti-vaccination information in the United States between 2014 and 2017, and a Russian agency with ties to the Kremlin bought Facebook ads about divisive issues such as race, abortion and gender equality ahead of the 2016 election. Chinese operations aim instead to cultivate common interests with powerful actors.China’s and Russia’s influence techniques differ because their strategic goals do. Both governments may want to weaken the United States and its alliances, but Beijing seems more intent than Moscow on bending institutions to meet its interests: Perhaps it hopes to supplant the current international order, but not by completely disrupting it. For example, Chinese officials have proposed new rules for governing cyberspace, arguing that each country should be able to regulate its internet, free of outside intervention.In the past, Beijing has denied claims by the United States government and American cybersecurity firms that it uses the Ministry of State Security, the People’s Liberation Army and private actors for cyber espionage. Anyway, there are no international agreements restricting such spying. Revelations by the former National Security Agency contractor Edward Snowden that American government agencies have also engaged in hacking only make Washington’s complaints seem hypocritical.When Americans accuse the Russian government of meddling, it simply refutes the charges, with little concern about being believable, or anything other than its power relative to Washington’s. Getting caught using cyberattacks to disrupt an election would seriously undermine both Beijing’s narrative that it has an alternative but cooperative model of international governance to offer and its vision of itself as a rising power committed to not interfering in other countries’ internal affairs.China’s continued restraint, however, is not guaranteed. Beijing has invested heavily in artificial intelligence, big data and other technologies that could boost its ability to manipulate information in the future. There is a growing pushback against all forms of Chinese influence in Australia, Europe, New Zealand and the United States.In addition, the Chinese leadership increasingly believes that Washington is moving away from a strategy of engaging China toward a policy designed to contain its rise. The loss of traditional means of influence and a more conflictual relationship with liberal democracies may eventually convince Beijing that it stands to gain from resorting to more aggressive methods online.If so, the tactics it has deployed in Taiwan may provide a model for any operations in the United States. For example, Chinese hackers could steal and release documents and emails from congressional staffers or State Department officials to, say, expose and embarrass supporters of closer relations with Taiwan or critics of America’s allies.As it watches Washington struggle to find a coherent response to Russian interference in 2016, the Chinese government is likely to think that it could avoid serious repercussions if it ever launched similar cyberattacks in the United States. Were China’s strategic calculations to change, there would be little to stop it from entering the online fray.Adam Segal, director of the Digital and Cyberspace Policy Program at the Council on Foreign Relations, is the author of “The Hacked World Order: How Nations Fight, Trade, Maneuver and Manipulate in the Digital Age.”Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 

Supported byIf Whitaker does not recuse himself from the Mueller inquiry, Democrats should impeach him.By Bret StephensOpinion ColumnistOf all the ways in which Donald Trump’s presidency has made America worse, nothing epitomizes it quite so fully as the elevation of Matthew Whitaker as acting attorney general of the United States. Intellectually honest conservatives — the six or seven who remain, at any rate — need to say this, loudly. His appointment represents an unprecedented assault on the integrity and reputation of the Justice Department, the advice and consent function of the Senate, and the rule of law in the United States.How so? A first-pass list:Unqualified. Until this week, perhaps the least qualified attorney general in living memory was Alberto Gonzales, who served unhappily in George W. Bush’s second term before he resigned under a legal cloud. Yet Gonzales could still be credited for service in the Air Force, a Harvard law degree, four years of service as White House counsel, and a two-year stint as a justice on the Texas Supreme Court.That makes Gonzales the intellectual equivalent of Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr. next to Whitaker, whose legal credentials include a little more than a year at the Justice Department as Jeff Sessions’s chief of staff, a couple of unsuccessful political runs in Iowa, a stint as a U.S. attorney, and work at regional law firms. Never in the history of the Justice Department has so much rested on the shoulders of someone who can boast of so little.Shady. Kudos to Brittany Shammas of the Miami New Times for breaking the story that Whitaker served as a paid board member of World Patent Marketing, which was shut down in May by a federal court in Florida and ordered to pay a $25 million settlement following a complaint by the Federal Trade Commission that it was a business scam. Whitaker wrote at least one bullying email to a customer who threatened to complain to the Better Business Bureau about the company’s business practices.Now it turns out that the Miami office of the F.B.I. is conducting a criminal investigation of World Patent Marketing. This would be the same F.B.I. that Whitaker oversees in his new job.A hack. Also shady is the conservative “watchdog” group FACT, or Foundation for Accountability and Civic Trust, which Whitaker ran from a mostly virtual Washington address to gather dirt on Hillary Clinton, Merrick Garland and other G.O.P. enemies. This isn’t illegal. It’s just scummy and disreputable and indicative of the world Whitaker inhabited before his sudden elevation.A crackpot. Whitaker was asked in 2014 to name “some of the worst decisions in the Supreme Court’s history.” He did not mention Dred Scott v. Sandford, the worst decision ever. He did not mention Plessy v. Ferguson, the second worst. He didn’t even mention Roe v. Wade or Griswold v. Connecticut, the abortion cases reviled by the Christian right to which he belongs.Instead, he named Marbury v. Madison, which, he lamented, made the Supreme Court “the final arbiter of constitutional issues.” This is not a quarrel with a ruling. It is an objection to the system. We have an acting attorney general who does not believe in the Constitutional order of which he is the chief legal officer.Barely legal. I’m not fully convinced by the argument made in a Times op-ed by Neal Katyal and George Conway (Kellyanne’s better half) that Whitaker’s appointment is unconstitutional because the acting A.G. has not been confirmed for the job by the Senate. Among other questions, their argument rests too heavily on a concurrence written by Clarence Thomas in a case involving an appointment to the National Labor Relations Board.But if Whitaker’s appointment is legal thanks to the Vacancies Reform Act, it’s, ahem, barely legal. Acting A.G.’s are typically placeholders, previously confirmed to deputy-level positions, who serve in office for a few days pending Senate approval of a successor. Whitaker is being installed for what could be a seven-month term, and perhaps twice as long. A Republican Senate that allows a Republican president to evade its advice and consent function licenses every future president to do the same.Dangerous. Democrats are concerned about what Whitaker’s elevation means for Robert Mueller’s investigation. They’re right to be. Whitaker’s public record of aggressive hostility to the Mueller probe disqualifies him from overseeing it. If he does not recuse himself from the role, the Democratic House should immediately move to impeach him. The Senate isn’t likely to convict, but let Republicans own this fiasco.It says something about how atrocious this appointment is that even Trump is now distancing himself from Whitaker, falsely claiming not to know him despite the latter’s repeated Oval Office visits. It’s the Michael Cohen treatment. When a rat smells a rat, it’s a rat. Only a Republican in 2018 could fail to notice.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram, join the Facebook political discussion group, Voting While Female, and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. Bret L. Stephens has been an Opinion columnist with The Times since April 2017. He won a Pulitzer Prize for commentary at The Wall Street Journal in 2013 and was previously editor in chief of The Jerusalem Post.  @BretStephensNYT • Facebook 

Supported byFrugal TravelerFinding the lowest airfare has become a favorite frugal pastime, and there are websites to help you nail down cheap fares. Some strategies, however, are dicey.By Elaine GlusacBetween bargain-shopping travelers and airlines flashing ephemeral prices, searching for the lowest airfares can feel like a game of cat and mouse. Sometimes, the game carries real-world risks, including the recent news that Lufthansa is suing a passenger who the airline contends intentionally skipped a flight leg using a largely prohibited budget-booking practice known as hidden city.Bargain hunting has led to a rise in cheap travel websites and rules of thumb for booking, such as flying at off-peak times and on slower days.“People would like a simple rule, but in practice there isn’t a single day or time to buy,” said Patrick Surry, the chief data scientist for Hopper, an airfare prediction app. Factors most impacting airfares, he said, are “the day you travel, how long you stay and the airport you’re flying.” How far in advance you book can also determine the price you pay.Airfares reflect the adage that time is money; for bargain-hunters the less money you spend, the more time you’re likely to spend in the airport. Hopper found that fliers can save 5 percent on airfares by changing from direct to one-stop fares, and 2 percent above that for moving from a one- to a two-stop ticket. Of course, those non-direct fares will mean spending more time stuck in airports. Long layovers will also save you money: A layover of more than 12 hours means an average of a 6-percent savings on your airfare.Having flexibility in travel is one sure way to get the best fare. Many search engines, including Kayak and Hopper, allow users to register for price-alert tracking that recommends whether to buy now or wait for future price drops. The app HitList allows users to track a route with unspecified dates or lengths of travel.Other booking ploys, surveyed below, may or may not get you into trouble with the airlines.Hidden city fares are one-way tickets through a connecting city where passengers intentionally stay in the layover city. For example, a flier from New York City to San Francisco may find it cheaper to book a one-stop flight to Seattle connecting through San Francisco, disembark there and not take the last leg to Seattle. The practice is known as skiplagging.Finding these fares required a lot of scattershot searching and knowledge of airline competition until the website Skiplagged.com automated it in 2013. Its founder, Aktarer Zaman, was sued for deception by United Airlines and the online travel agency Orbitz in 2015, but that lawsuit was dismissed based on jurisdiction, and the website is still going strong.Clearly, airlines don’t like skiplagging, which prevents them from selling the empty seat. Delta, United and American now explicitly ban exploiting fare rules in their contracts of carriage. For example, American Airlines states that “reservations made to exploit or circumvent fare and ticket rules are strictly prohibited.” This includes purchasing a ticket “without intending to fly all flights to gain lower fares (hidden city).”Some also argue the practice is unethical. “For every dollar someone scams, and I do think it’s a scam, that dollar is going to be placed back into the airfare structure of the airlines that everyone else pays,” said George Hobica, the founder of Airfarewatchdog.com, a site that monitors airfare deals.Mr. Zaman looks at the practice differently. “When you go to the store and buy a bag of chips, is it unethical to finish only half of it?” Mr. Zaman said. He notes that Skiplagged.com is for the average American flier — who flies two times a year, according to the trade association Airlines for America — not for someone who intends to book hidden city routes often.“Our mission is to make it easier to experience the world,” Mr. Zaman added. “We make flying more accessible, so we’re fighting against price discrimination and the way airlines try to take advantage of everybody.”Some airlines would beg to disagree. In the recent Lufthansa litigation, the airline sued a passenger, claiming a contract violation when he skipped the last leg of his flight on a one-stop ticket from Seattle to Oslo via Frankfurt. The airline’s conditions of carriage stipulate that a fare is only valid if flown in the booked order (the order of flights listed in the itinerary), according to a spokeswoman for Lufthansa. Many flight hacks are termed hacker fares, but Kayak popularized the term used in its search results on round-trip queries to show two one-way tickets, often on competing airlines, at rock-bottom prices.For example, a recent search for fares from Chicago to Los Angeles turned up nonstop round trips on United from $321, versus $275 with an outbound on Delta and a return on American. Round-trip prices for the same itinerary turned up fares of $372 on Delta and $312 on American, both more expensive than that $275 combination of two one-way fares.“Hacker fares are what Kayak does to discover cheapness, but also more diversity in results in terms of flight schedules,” Giorgos Zacharia, the chief technology officer at Kayak, said. “Domestically, if you fly out with one airline and return with a different one you can create a lot of savings.”Other search engines will also show one-way ticketing results for savings. Skyscanner, for example, calls them mash-ups. In most cases, fliers must click out of the search engines and into booking ones — either an online travel agency or the airline itself — and make the two bookings in quick succession to ensure the deal doesn’t disappear.Sometimes a ticket purchased from within a foreign country costs less than the same airfare in the United States. That’s because airlines price their flights based on competitive factors in local markets, including the wealth of consumers and their willingness to fly.Airline search engines can tell where you reside based on your computer’s internet Protocol or I.P. address. Users can mask that address by subscribing to a VPN or Virtual Private Network, which allows you to search anonymously (plans at NordVPN, one provider, start at $2.99 a month). Some travel strategists believe this works.From my own experiment comparing search results for international flights using a VPN and an internet address in Chicago, I got mixed results. Using the VPN, Air China asked me to identify my country and language, and then gave me the same $739 search result for a flight between San Francisco and Beijing that I found when using my office computer. However, when I searched for internal flights in a foreign country — flights between Buenos Aires, for example, and Bariloche in Argentina — I found the same itinerary for $302 on my office computer in Chicago versus $249 (after converting from pesos) using the VPN (in this instance, one would want to buy any foreign ticket using a credit card without exchange fees).VPNs are legal in the United States. Though often associated with dark uses of the web, they can also protect you when using free public Wi-Fi.An easier approach may be to use a foreign travel agent. Tierra Hotels, which operates lodges in Chile’s Atacama Desert, Patagonia and Lakes regions, often refers North American guests to the Santiago-based travel agency Cocha for flights from the capital to its properties. Cocha recently found round-trip tickets between Santiago and Punta Arenas in Patagonia for $262 versus results I received searching Latam Airlines from my office in Chicago at $324.Open-jaw tickets, often called multi-stop bookings on airline sites, are for round-trip flights that arrive at one destination and leave from another. For example, you may wish to fly from New York to London, then take the Eurostar train to continental Europe and later fly back home from Paris.Open jaws can save you money, especially on international itineraries as one-way flights outside the United States are often costly. Most airlines and search engines offer multi-stop search options, making the practice easy.Better yet, use open-jaw fares to expand your airport searches to get more results. While both are London airports, flying into Heathrow and back from Gatwick, for example, is technically an open-jaw booking. To ensure you get results from all possible combinations, search using a generic destination like London or an option for any airport in the area rather than a specific airport, bearing in mind that budget airlines often use secondary airports.A recent search for flights between London and Paris, cities with multiple airports, turned up a round-trip fare of $182 on British Airways, flying from London City Airport to Charles de Gaulle Airport in Paris and returning to Heathrow, versus $197 on an Air France flight between Heathrow and Charles de Gaulle. One of the cheapest fares was on the low-cost carrier easyJet: $170 round trip, from Charles de Gaulle to Heathrow, and back to Paris from London Southend Airport.HIDDEN CITY FARES Most airlines prohibit exploiting these pricing loopholes, though few have prosecuted.HACKER FARES Another term for two one-way tickets and perfectly legal.RESIDENT FARES Masking your computer’s address to get fares reserved for local residents may not be illegal but it is technically complex. Try using a foreign travel agent.OPEN-JAW TICKETS A good approach for surveying itinerary and pricing options.Follow NY Times Travel on Twitter, Instagram and Facebook. Get weekly updates from our Travel Dispatch newsletter, with tips on traveling smarter, destination coverage and photos from all over the world.

Supported bySmart home devices can make life more convenient, but may put you at risk of being hacked. Ensure your safety with a few simple measures.By Rachel CericolaMs. Cericola is a Staff Writer at Wirecutter, the product review site owned by The New York Times Company.By connecting smart devices like lights, cameras, door locks and thermostats to the Internet, you may be making them — and you — visible to digital thieves or hackers. “Every device connected to the Internet is a target,” said Theresa Payton, a former White House chief information officer and the founder and chief executive of Fortalice Solutions. A few recent news stories also illustrate the power these devices have. One family’s living room Wi-Fi camera was infiltrated, allowing someone to not only control the camera and spy on them, but to broadcast sound — including a false report of a nuclear missile attack. We’ve also seen domestic abusers tap into smart home technology to intimidate and stalk former partners.According to statistics website Statista, there will be about 42 million smart homes by the end of 2019, but little more than anecdotal evidence of security compromises. So while stories about hacks and privacy breaches are indeed scary, so far they’re also rare. The vast majority of smart home users aren’t getting hacked. Still, as with any internet-connected device, taking precautions is essential. At Wirecutter, the New York Times company that reviews products, we’ve consulted with a range of experts who offered some tips that will go a long way toward protecting you and your home — and don’t require a lot of time, money or technical know-how. We’ve also done extensive testing of smart home devices and we consider a product’s security measures as part of our evaluation process.One of the things that makes smart home devices “smart” is their ability to connect to the internet over your home’s Wi-Fi network. That’s why it’s essential that you properly secure it. If you don’t protect your Wi-Fi network with a password, or you only use the default password that came with your modem or router, all of your devices are exposed — the digital equivalent of leaving your front door wide open with a neon welcome sign overhead. “People need to realize there’s actually catalogs of all those default passwords on the internet,” Ms. Payton said. Lock your network down with a password, one that is unique and not shared with any other accounts you have. Ms. Payton also suggests completely hiding your home network from view, an option in your router’s settings menu. “So when somebody drives by, they think you don’t have internet. They can’t see it,” she said.You can add another layer of protection by isolating your smart home devices from your computers and smartphones using a guest network, a common option in many popular routers. “That way, the devices will be sort of quarantined by themselves,” said David Templeton, an information security analyst at The New York Times. Doing this also makes it easier to take devices offline without having to upset your entire network.Many people make the mistake of using the same username and password combination on multiple devices or accounts. If any one of those combinations is discovered — as happens a lot, such as when giant companies like Facebook and Yahoo get hacked — an enterprising thief could try them out on popular banking websites, social networks, email providers and websites that allow control of smart devices. You need to use unique passwords for everything — including shopping sites you visit, services you use, your home network and of course, each of your smart home devices. Remembering such an encyclopedia of passwords is functionally impossible, which is why Mr. Templeton suggests using a password manager, which not only creates unique passwords automatically but also keeps track of them across all your devices. Wirecutter has suggestions for the best ones to use here.All of our security experts agree that it’s best to pick smart devices from established brands. Those companies have a reputation to protect, along with the infrastructure to back it up. That also means they likely have the ability to employ better security measures when designing their products, and unlike no-name brands or many start-ups, you can reasonably expect them to release software patches and fixes if vulnerabilities are discovered. And naturally, we recommend reading good, high-quality reviews (and admittedly, we’re biased toward our own) before making a purchase.There are a few additional ways to further secure your smart devices. A number of companies now offer a verification system to control access to devices, called two-factor authentication. When you attempt to log into an app, a one-time-use code is sent to another of your devices, which then needs to be entered in the original app. It’s not perfect, but makes it virtually impossible for someone unwanted to access your accounts. Also, many manufacturers allow you to opt into automatic hardware and software updates, something that will ensure the latest fixes get installed to repair new security vulnerabilities. Make sure you check the settings section of your devices’ apps and your smartphone’s app marketplace for updates to devices that don’t automatically do this.Ms. Payton said she also reboots smart home devices once a week as an added security measure. “That reboot will actually make it grab any new security and privacy settings and downloads when it reconnects to the internet,” she explained. However, this is impractical for some devices, especially ones that are hard-wired into your home like in-wall dimmers and smart thermostats.Just because you’re ready to ditch a device doesn’t mean it’s ready to forget you. After all, your Wi-Fi password and other personal info is often stored on that camera, smart plug or smart bulb. Before selling or recycling any device, be sure to do a factory reset first. Some devices require a button-press on the actual device, while others allow you to do it from the app. Either way, make sure that your info is no longer available through the app.If a device is broken and you’re unable to wipe it clean, make sure it’s really broken and smash its components to pieces. According to the United States Computer Emergency Readiness Team, “Physical destruction of a device is the ultimate way to prevent others from retrieving your information.” I like to think about all those times a device stopped working or disconnected from the network, and the idea of whacking it with a hammer. Just make sure you don’t hurt yourself in the process.There is mounting pressure on manufacturers to adopt better security practices. “The industry should be using strong encryption wherever possible, verifying firmware updates and inviting security audits,” said Bennett Cyphers, a staff technologist at the Electronic Frontier Foundation. The E.F.F. and organizations like The Digital Standard and the Mozilla Foundation are pressuring companies and government bodies to put stronger security practices in place. But everyone we spoke to agrees that, for now, consumers need to be proactive about security. “Honestly, given where we are and how businesses think about security and privacy, the onus is on you. Nobody can look out for your security and privacy like you can for you and your family,” Ms. Payton said.Sign up for the Wirecutter Weekly Newsletter and get our latest recommendations every Sunday. A version of this article appears at Wirecutter.com.

Supported byBy Nicole PerlrothSAN FRANCISCO — North Korean hackers who have targeted American and European businesses for 18 months kept up their attacks last week even as President Trump was meeting with North Korea’s leader in Hanoi.The attacks, which include efforts to hack into banks, utilities and oil and gas companies, began in 2017, according to researchers at the cybersecurity company McAfee, a time when tensions between North Korea and the United States were flaring. But even though both sides have toned down their fiery threats and begun nuclear disarmament talks, the attacks persist.In 2017, Mr. Trump mocked Kim Jong-un as “rocket man” in a speech at the United Nations, while North Korea tested missiles capable of delivering a nuclear warhead to the United States. The attacks began soon after that. Though the two sides failed to reach an agreement last week, Mr. Trump struck a conciliatory tone toward his North Korean counterpart.The revelation of North Korea’s most recent hacking activity adds new details to the tensions surrounding the summit meeting last week, which ended abruptly without any deals. After their first meeting, about eight months earlier, North Korea had agreed to stop test-firing its missiles.“For 15 months, they haven’t tested weapons because of this negotiation but over those same 15 months they have not stopped their cyber activity,” said Victor Cha, the Korea chairman at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington.With the help of an unnamed foreign law enforcement agency, the McAfee researchers gained access to one of the main computer servers used by the North Korean hackers to stage their attacks.The McAfee researchers said they watched, in real time, as the North Koreans attacked the computer networks of more than a hundred companies in the United States and around the globe. Last month, they expanded their targets to companies in Turkey, operating from a block of internet addresses traced to Namibia, one of the few countries that still maintains friendly relations with Pyongyang.“They are very, very, very active. It’s been nonstop,” said Raj Samani, McAfee’s chief scientist. “We’ve seen them hit in excess of 100 victims.”The exact motive of the attacks was not clear. They were well-researched and highly focused and, in many cases, aimed at engineers and executives who had broad access to their companies’ computer networks and intellectual property.McAfee, which is based in Santa Clara, Calif., would not name the targets of the attacks and said it would make its finding public Sunday. But the firm did provide a map of North Korean hackers’ targets.The vast majority were in the United States, with the most frequent marks in Houston, an oil and gas hub, and New York, a finance hub. Other major targets included London, Madrid, Tokyo, Tel Aviv, Rome, Bangkok, Taipei, Seoul and Hong Kong. Russia and mainland China, two countries that have maintained cordial relations with North Korea, were relatively untouched.North Korea, like the United States and many other countries, has long been accused of using hackers to further its national interests. In 2014, apparently in retaliation for a movie that mocked Mr. Kim, North Korean hackers hit Sony Pictures Entertainment. They destroyed Sony’s computer servers, paralyzed the studio’s operations and eventually leaked embarrassing emails from executives, in what would become a playbook for the Russian attacks and leaks of emails ahead of the 2016 elections.North Korean hackers have been tied to attacks on banks all around the world for financial gain — a rarity among government-affiliated hackers but not surprising for a country ravaged by economic sanctions. The “WannaCry” attack, which paralyzed more than 150 organizations around the globe in 2017, was also traced to North Korea.Mr. Cha, of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, said cyberattacks remained the “third leg” of North Korea’s overall military strategy. “They’re never going to compete with the United States and South Korea soldier to soldier, tank for tank,” he said. “So they have moved to an asymmetric strategy of nuclear weapons, ballistic missiles and the third leg is cyber, that we really didn’t become aware of until Sony.”Since the Sony attack, McAfee’s researchers said North Korea’s hackers had significantly improved their capabilities: They are much better at hiding their tracks and researching their targets. And in many of the attacks McAfee witnessed, North Korean hackers had done their homework.They scoured the Microsoft-owned business site LinkedIn, for example, to find the profiles of industry job recruiters. They sent emails that appeared to come from those recruiters’ accounts, often in perfect English, promoting job opportunities.When a target clicked on an attachment or link in the email, the hackers gained access to the target’s computer.“The campaign was clearly really well prepared,” said Christiaan Beek, McAfee’s senior principal engineer and lead scientist. “It was very well researched and very targeted. They knew the individuals they were going for, and they drafted emails in such a way that their targets clicked on them.”The tools they used to implant malware in the recent attacks, which McAfee’s researchers called “Rising Sun” because of a reference in the code, were also starkly improved.Though the implants shared code with previous North Korean attacks, McAfee’s researchers said the hackers added new functions to lift data off infected machines. They also went to great lengths to delete their digital movements and encrypt their traffic.Mr. Beek and Mr. Samani said their team at McAfee was able to follow the hackers’ movements only because of their access to the North Koreans’ server. “The more code we saw, the more links we could see to more and more attacks,” Mr. Beek said.Considering other recent North Korean hacking campaigns that McAfee’s researchers have tracked — notably against the 2018 Winter Olympics and a separate spate of attacks on banks last year — Mr. Beek said North Korea showed no signs of slowing this activity.Security experts said the attacks would have to be addressed at some point if the two countries should continue talks.“Their very aggressive cyberactivity will have to be addressed in future discussions,” Mr. Cha said. “They are extremely active and, it’s clear to me at least, they’ve stopped missile testing because of the ongoing negotiations, but they’re not stopping in cyber.”Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article misstated the length of time between the first and second summit meetings between President Trump and Kim Jong-un, North Korea’s leader. It was about eight months, not 15.Follow Nicole Perlroth on Twitter: @nicoleperlroth

Supported byBy Matthew GoldsteinCompanies use the Securities and Exchange Commission’s corporate filing system to share market-moving news with investors and the public. Getting an early peek at those filings would be very helpful to a thief.That was the motivation for two computer hackers who tried to penetrate the system, known as Edgar, according to an indictment unsealed on Tuesday by federal prosecutors in New Jersey.The authorities charged two men, both of whom are believed to be Ukrainian nationals, in a scheme to hack into the commission’s database and steal secret information that they could either trade on or sell to others.Prosecutors said that by hacking into the Edgar system, the men, Artem Radchenko and Oleksandr Ieremenko, had stolen “annual, quarterly and current reports of publicly traded companies before the reports were disseminated to the investing public.”The scheme, prosecutors said, took place from roughly February 2016 to March 2017. Federal authorities had previously charged Mr. Ieremenko in 2015 with hacking into the databases of business newswire companies to steal corporate news releases in order to make profitable trades.A spokesman for Craig Carpenito, the United States attorney for New Jersey, said that neither Mr. Radchenko nor Mr. Ieremenko was in federal custody.The S.E.C., which has been operating with a skeleton staff because of the partial government shutdown, said in a related civil complaint that the scheme had generated about $4.1 million in illegal profits.In addition to Mr. Ieremenko, six individuals, most of whom have addresses in Russia or Ukraine, and two entities were also named as defendants.One of the defendants, David Kwon, who is charged with securities fraud, is believed to live in Los Angeles, according to the complaint. Securities regulators contend that Mr. Kwon, 44, traded at least 18 times on information stolen from Edgar. He did not respond to a request for comment.Another defendant listed in the commission’s complaint, Sungjin Cho, who lives in Los Angeles, is accused of making at least 66 trades. Sean Prosser, a lawyer for Mr. Cho, declined to comment on the charges.To gain access to the system, prosecutors said, the hackers sent so-called phishing emails to commission employees and then infected some of the agency’s computers with malware.The scheme targeted “test filings” that companies can submit to Edgar before actual filings that are intended to be made public. Such test filings often contain information similar to that in the actual filings.The criminal indictment said the defendants had stolen test filings submitted by at least five companies and then traded on the information or sold it to unnamed co-conspirators. Edgar has been compromised before. In 2015, the commission charged a Bulgarian man with creating a company in order to get an access code to the system. He then submitted bogus takeover bids for two companies, Avon Products and Rocky Mountain Chocolate Factory, in an effort to manipulate their stock prices.

Supported byBy Melissa EddyBERLIN — A 20-year-old German student took advantage of passwords as weak as “Iloveyou” and “1234” to hack into online accounts of hundreds of lawmakers and personalities whose political stances he disliked, officials revealed Tuesday, shaking Berlin’s political establishment and raising questions about data security in Europe’s leading economy.Working from his computer in his parents’ home, the young man used relatively simple techniques to hack into successive accounts, the authorities said. There, he stole the users’ personal information and published it through Twitter over the course of December.But it was not until late on Jan. 3 that an employee in the office of Andrea Nahles, leader of the center-left Social Democratic Party, finally noticed the hack and informed security officials, who then scrambled to track the source of the leaks.At a time when Western officials are increasingly wary of digital interference in institutions and elections, and just months before European elections, the revelation of a widespread data breach that took a month to detect has prompted harsh assessments of the preparedness of a nation that for decades has prided itself on its technological prowess. The news that a single person, using unsophisticated methods, was responsible, only compounded those concerns.On Tuesday, Chancellor Angela Merkel’s interior minister, Horst Seehofer, and senior security officials pushed back against accusations they had been too slow to respond or had failed in their mission to keep Germans safe online. They insisted they had organized a response within minutes of learning of the hack and said they had informed lawmakers about the risk of security breaches after a 2015 hack on the government network.“This incident is painful, but our reaction shows the security of the German people is ensured around the clock, also in the cybersphere,” Mr. Seehofer told reporters.Holger Münch, the head of Germany’s federal police, said the young man, whose identity was not released because he was being treated as a juvenile, had admitted during questioning to stealing the personal data of an array of public figures. Most of them are politicians, from all of Germany’s leading political parties — save for the far-right Alternative for Germany, or AfD.“Based on our assessment so far, we believe he acted alone,” Mr. Münch told reporters, adding that so far, investigators had no evidence that the hacker had any affiliation with a political party or other groups. “He acted out of a general discontent with politicians, or journalists, or public figures, who he wanted to expose. That was his motive.”The man was detained on Sunday on suspicion of spying and illegally publishing personal information, crimes that carry a sentence of up to three years each. But because he has no previous criminal record and is being treated as a juvenile, it is likely that he would receive a much lighter sentence.He has since been released on grounds there was not sufficient reason to hold him in detention pending the outcome of the investigation, said Georg Ungefuk, a prosecutor with the Frankfurt-based office responsible for cybercrimes, which is carrying out the investigation.Germany’s main government network was breached by hackers in 2015, and the authorities worried that information obtained then would be used against politicians leading up to the 2017 election. Those fears were largely unfounded, but Mr. Seehofer, the interior minister, warned that last month’s breach should be a warning to everyone, especially ahead of the European parliamentary election in May.“We must be prepared that outside actors may want to influence this election and take every precaution to prevent this and do what we can to recognize such an action as early as possible,” he said. “It could be a very different perpetrator.”Despite the shock that a single person was able to agitate and alarm the country’s political establishment, Mr. Münch pointed out that many young people had committed crimes from computers in their bedrooms, citing examples of teens who had been caught selling weapons or drugs over the “dark web,” areas of the internet hidden from the view of most users.Dirk Engling, spokesman for the Chaos Computer Club, a German collective of hackers, said the hack itself wasn’t technically difficult, but required a great deal of patience in order to learn the necessary passwords.He listed previous examples in Germany of such hacks where an individual’s private information was stolen for the purposes of publishing online, known in the tech world as “doxxing,” but pointed out that they had largely gone ignored by policymakers.“Now that they have been snatched from their online accounts, suddenly it seems to have changed some minds,” Mr. Engling said.The authorities said that on learning of the breaches on Jan. 3, they immediately began coordinating efforts to find the source and request that Twitter take down the offending account, which happened the following morning.The Twitter account announced in November that the leaks were coming, and on Dec. 1 it began posting the data, but apparently few people noticed until weeks later. The authorities said they were still evaluating hard drives and personal papers confiscated in a raid on the man’s home.Of the nearly 1,000 people whose information was leaked, 949 were politicians, roughly half of them from the governing Christian Democratic Union, Mr. Münch said. While some of the information published was already public, there were 116 cases of personal documents that were illegally made public, he said.Opposition lawmakers and members of Ms. Nahles’ S.P.D., which governs in a coalition with the Christian Democrats, have criticized the country’s cybersecurity office and Mr. Seehofer for failing to discover the incursion earlier. The hacker released the information through links and passwords posted on Twitter in the form of an Advent calendar, where a window is opened each day leading up to Christmas, revealing a treat.Early postings involved the personal information of rappers, journalists and YouTube video bloggers, but from Dec. 20, information on members of five of the six political parties with seats in the German Parliament was released. It was not clear why AfD politicians were spared.The attack raised new questions about whether the government had structures in place to adequately help users safeguard their computers and sensitive personal information.Katarina Barley, the justice minister, said her office was looking into whether it made sense to further tighten the country’s already strict privacy laws, or those requiring software providers and companies running internet platforms to respond more swiftly to requests for data to be taken down.“We are examining whether tightening the laws would make sense or be necessary,” Ms. Barley said. She and Mr. Seehofer encouraged Germans to use strong passwords, avoid using the same password for multiple accounts and two-step verification to access to their online accounts as their best.“It can happen anywhere,” said Mr. Engling said of hacks on personal information. “It’s easy to always blame the Chinese and Russia, but using private email for business or political matters makes you susceptible.”Follow Melissa Eddy on Twitter: @meddynyt.Adam Satariano contributed reporting from London.

Supported byBy Karen WeiseSEATTLE — Jeff Bezos’ security consultant accused the Saudi government of gaining unauthorized access to the Amazon chief executive’s phone, as part of an effort to harm the world’s richest man.In an opinion article in The Daily Beast on Saturday, Gavin de Becker, Mr. Bezos’ security chief, alleged the Saudis wanted to hurt Mr. Bezos because he owns The Washington Post. The Post has aggressively reported on the murder of Jamal Khashoggi, one of its columnists, who was killed last year in Turkey. United States officials have concluded Mr. Khashoggi, who was critical of Saudi leaders, was killed on the orders of the Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman.Mr. de Becker said he had turned over his findings about the Saudis and their role against Mr. Bezos to law enforcement.“Our investigators and several experts concluded with high confidence that the Saudis had access to Bezos’ phone, and gained private information,” Mr. de Becker wrote.Mr. de Becker’s claims about the Saudis are difficult to verify and raise many questions. Throughout his article, the security consultant was vague on details. He did not reveal direct evidence of his accusations and wrote that he would not speak again publicly on the issue.On Sunday, American Media Inc., the parent company of The National Enquirer, which first reported earlier this year that Mr. Bezos was having an extramarital affair, issued a statement denying “the false and unsubstantiated claims of Mr. de Becker.”Amazon did not immediately have a comment about Mr. Bezos. An official with the Saudi embassy in Washington declined to comment on Saturday.Mr. de Becker’s allegations are the latest twist in a bizarre situation that has embroiled the largest U.S. tabloid publisher and Mr. Bezos, who runs Amazon and owns The Post. The unusual set of circumstances began in January, when Mr. Bezos announced that he and his wife, MacKenzie Bezos, were divorcing. The next day, The Enquirer published an exposé revealing that Mr. Bezos was romantically involved with Lauren Sanchez, a former Los Angeles TV anchor.Then in February, Mr. Bezos published a post on Medium accusing AMI of “extortion and blackmail.” Mr. Bezos said AMI had threatened to publish graphic photographs of him, including a “below-the-belt selfie,” if he did not publicly affirm that The Enquirer’s reporting on his affair was not motivated by political concerns. He said AMI, which has had ties to the Saudis, was “apoplectic” about The Post’s reporting on the Saudis.Mr. Bezos added that he had asked Mr. de Becker, his longtime security consultant, to investigate who had leaked information and photos about him.Earlier this month, The New York Times reported that two people with direct knowledge of The Enquirer’s reporting said that everything the tabloid received on Mr. Bezos’ affair, including the “below-the-belt selfie,” came from a single source. The Wall Street Journal later reported that AMI had paid Ms. Sanchez’s brother, Michael Sanchez, $200,000 for the texts.In its statement on Sunday, AMI said directly that its source was Mr. Sanchez. “The fact of the matter is, it was Michael Sanchez who tipped the National Enquirer off to the affair on Sept. 10, 2018, and over the course of four months provided all of the materials for our investigation.” AMI added, “There was no involvement by any other third party whatsover.”Mr. de Becker on Saturday said that the effort against Mr. Bezos went beyond Mr. Sanchez and also involved the Saudis. Mr. de Becker pointed to an article published on Saturday by The New York Post in which Mr. Sanchez said The Enquirer “had seen text exchanges between the secret couple” before he was in touch with the tabloid on the matter.“Reality is complicated, and can’t always be boiled down to a simple narrative like ‘the brother did it,’” Mr. de Becker wrote.Mr. de Becker said his investigation included interviews with cybersecurity experts and “people who personally know the Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman.” But he stopped short of saying what methods he believed the Saudis may have used to access Mr. Bezos’ personal information.He added that AMI had wanted him to make a public statement “saying that my investigation had concluded they hadn’t relied upon ‘any form of electronic eavesdropping or hacking in their news-gathering process,’” and that the tabloid’s story was not “instigated, dictated or influenced in any manner by external forces, political or otherwise.”Mr. de Becker said he told AMI in a recorded call that those claims were “not my truth.”Follow Karen Weise on Twitter: @KYWeise.Amy Chozick and David Kirkpatrick contributed reporting.

Supported byBy Nicole PerlrothSAN FRANCISCO — The Democratic National Committee believes it was targeted in a hacking attempt by a Russian group in the weeks after the midterm elections last year, according to court documents filed late Thursday.On Nov. 14, the documents say, dozens of D.N.C. email addresses were on the receiving end of a so-called spearphishing campaign by one of two Russian organizations believed to be responsible for hacking into the committee’s computers during the 2016 presidential race. There is no evidence that the most recent attack was successful.The documents, filed in federal court in New York, were part of an amended complaint in a lawsuit filed in April that claimed the committee was the victim of a conspiracy by Russian intelligence agents, President Trump’s 2016 campaign and WikiLeaks to damage Hillary Clinton’s presidential run.The new court filings say the time stamps and contents of the spearphishing emails received in November were consistent with separate cyberattacks around the same time tied to the Russian hacking group known as Cozy Bear, one of the two Russian groups suspected of breaching D.N.C. computers in 2016.Security researchers believe the hacking attempt against the D.N.C. in November was part of a broader campaign that used decoy emails that appeared to come from the State Department.That campaign had more than a dozen targets, including government agencies, think tanks, law enforcement officials, journalists, military personnel, defense contractors, pharmaceutical companies and transportation officials, according to a report by the cybersecurity firm FireEye. Researchers believe the goal was to ferret out American foreign policy, particularly related to Africa; Democratic policy positions; and the platforms of 2020 Democratic presidential hopefuls.FireEye said the attempted hacking of the D.N.C. in November resembled other recent attacks attributed to Cozy Bear, including in its “deliberate reuse” of old phishing tactics and reliance on a similar list of victims. But there were a few new wrinkles, including new decoy email addresses and different obfuscation techniques.The hackers sent some targets of the broader campaign three phishing emails at most. In other instances, they were more aggressive, sending as many as 136 emails to a single organization. In some cases, the malware-laced emails were successful. And once they gained access to a computer network, it was only a matter of hours before they were deploying stealthier hacking tools.The attackers in November compromised a hospital email server to launch their phishing emails, a common tactic of the Cozy Bear group, said Nick Carr, a senior manager at FireEye.Cozy Bear hackers are skilled at rummaging through a network without drawing attention, said Matthew Dunwoody, a FireEye security researcher. Once in, they often swap out their phishing tools for malware that can be hard to detect, he said.FireEye said that although Cozy Bear was the likeliest culprit, the firm could not firmly establish who was responsible for the 2018 campaign against the D.N.C. and other targets. CrowdStrike, another cybersecurity firm, also noted an uptick in hacking activity in November, but it could not say definitively that Cozy Bear was to blame.Cozy Bear, also known by security firms as APT 29 or the Dukes, was one of two Russian groups involved in the 2016 hacking of the D.N.C. It has not attracted the same scrutiny as the other group, Fancy Bear, or APT 28, which has been linked to a string of cyberattacks against the D.N.C., the International Olympic Committee and other international organizations.Cozy Bear has been active since 2016, security researchers say, and has been linked to a coordinated wave of hacking attacks on Democratic Party officials.The D.N.C. says in the amended complaint that the November campaign was consistent with a continuing push by Russian hackers to target Democratic candidates and party leaders. In 2017, Russian hackers are believed to have attempted a hack of the computer network of former Senator Claire McCaskill of Missouri and the networks of at least two other candidates in the midterm elections.Mr. Trump has long denied any collusion with Russia, and in December several defendants named in the D.N.C.’s lawsuit argued that it should be dismissed because the committee was using it to try to “explain away” the Democratic “candidate’s defeat in the 2016 presidential campaign.”On Friday, Geoffrey A. Graber, a D.N.C. lawyer, said the committee expected defendants named in the case to file another motion for dismissal soon.The Russian government has consistently denied hacking the D.N.C. In a “statement of immunity” from Russia’s Ministry of Justice, Russian authorities argued that even if it were responsible for the hacking, such a “sovereign act” would be considered a “military action” protected by a 1976 law that offers some immunity from lawsuits regarding foreign governments’ actions in the United States.Follow Nicole Perlroth on Twitter: @nicoleperlroth.Sheera Frenkel contributed reporting.

Supported byBy David E. Sanger and Emily CochraneWASHINGTON — The campaign committee for House Republicans discovered in April that the email accounts of several of its senior officials had been hacked by what analysts later concluded was a “foreign entity,” people who have been briefed on the case said on Tuesday, highlighting the continued vulnerability of the United States to interference in its elections.The hack of the organization, the National Republican Congressional Committee, exposed thousands of emails from four senior aides for months, and perhaps longer. The hack was terminated when the staff members, alerted to the intrusion, changed their passwords. The committee called in the F.B.I. to investigate.But the committee waited eight months — until after Republicans lost 40 seats and control of the House of Representatives in the midterm elections — to disclose publicly what had happened. It remains unclear who was behind the hack.Over the weekend, Defense Secretary Jim Mattis told a defense forum at the Reagan Library in California that President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia “tried again to muck around in our elections this last month, and we are seeing a continued effort along those lines.” But he gave no indication whether he was referring to the Republican committee email breach or other activity including a disinformation campaign.By all accounts, the hack was not as widespread or sophisticated as the Russian effort to take over the computer systems of the Democratic National Committee in 2016. In that instance, the Russians implanted malware into the computer server that ran many of the Democratic committee’s operations and had free run of its communications networks. It was an operation American intelligence officials have testified was personally ordered by Mr. Putin.The breach of the Republican campaign committee, first reported by Politico, appears to have been more limited. The intrusion into the four email accounts was detected in April by a vendor for the committee.“The N.R.C.C. can confirm that it was the victim of a cyberintrusion by an unknown entity,” Ian Prior, a spokesman for the organization, said in a statement. “The cybersecurity of the committee’s data is paramount, and upon learning of the intrusion, the N.R.C.C. immediately launched an internal investigation and notified the F.B.I., which is now investigating the matter.”Mr. Prior declined to comment further, citing the continuing investigation. None of the emails appear to have been published. That could suggest that the hackers were just testing to see if they could break into the committee, or that they found the trove of stolen material insufficiently interesting.This was not the first time the Republicans had been a target. In 2016, Russian hackers broke into the servers of an outside vendor who appeared to have largely outdated documents from past presidential campaigns, James B. Comey, then the director of the F.B.I., told Congress in January 2017.Mr. Comey said that Russian hackers executed “limited penetration” of old Republican National Committee computer systems that were “no longer in use.”Until then, Republican officials — led by Sean Spicer, who later became Mr. Trump’s first press secretary — denied that the Russians had gotten into the party’s systems. Mr. Trump himself mocked the Democrats for the breach they suffered, saying Republicans had far stronger cybersecurity.The hack of the Republican campaign committee discovered this spring came after years in which cybersecurity and the risk of interference by foreign governments or other malicious actors have loomed large in American politics, putting both parties on guard.In this case, senior House Republicans, including Speaker Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin; Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the House majority leader; and Representative Steve Scalise of Louisiana, the majority whip, were not aware of the breach until Politico reporters contacted them, a person familiar with the investigation said.The person said that the techniques used by the hacker or hackers suggested that the breach was carried out by “a sophisticated actor.” The chief evidence was the lengths to which the hacker or hackers went to cover their tracks, another person familiar with the investigation said. “It was not a very broad or big hack,” that person added, “but it was skillful.”That alone would suggest that the hackers might be state sponsored, or at least experienced. But often it is difficult to tell whom hackers are working for, and state-sponsored hackers often go to considerable lengths to hide that information.Until the announcement on Tuesday, Republicans had little to say about continued Russian activity in the midterm elections. While top national security leaders had warned before the November elections that Russia was engaged in a “pervasive” campaign to sow discord and influence American voters, Congress appropriated relatively few funds to protect election systems. And a once-bipartisan effort to pass legislation that was intended to ensure that state officials had the resources to protect machines and voter-registration systems failed before the bill even made it out of committee.Ever since the 2016 events, Democrats and Republicans have tried, and failed, to come to some kind of agreement over whether their candidates would exploit the revelation of emails or other hacked materials about their opponents. The talks have always broken down.In a statement, the incoming chairwoman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, Cheri Bustos, said that “we condemn all cyberattacks in the strongest possible terms, and we continue to urge all political committees and campaigns to agree publicly never to use stolen hacked materials for political gain.”

Supported byBy David M. Halbfinger and Ronen BergmanNAHAL OZ, Israel — Benny Gantz, Israel’s former army chief, is campaigning to lead his country as the clean, moral alternative to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who faces indictment in a corruption scandal.But less than a month before the election, Mr. Gantz found himself fielding seamy-sounding questions late Friday about whether he had committed adultery, opened himself up to possible extortion or sandbagged his political allies to advance his own career.The awkward news appearance here at a kibbutz near the Gaza Strip followed a report on Israeli television that Mr. Gantz’s cellphone had been hacked by Iranian intelligence after his entry into politics in December and that personal and professional information had been stolen.Mr. Gantz retired from the military in 2015, so the issue is not whether classified information might now be in enemy hands, but that he could be vulnerable to blackmail if elected. The hack threatened to set back his bid, which polls have shown has the strongest chance of any opposition politician to depose Mr. Netanyahu. With rumors flying about what might have been harvested from Mr. Gantz’s cellphone, his party, the Blue and White, issued a statement saying the stolen data included “no security information, no embarrassing videos, and he was never a target of blackmail.”That was not enough to put a lid on the speculation, however, and so the laconic Mr. Gantz, whose campaign strategy has entailed saying as little as possible, hastily arranged his first news conference.His backdrop was the Gaza border, where a wave of Israeli airstrikes hit early Friday after two Hamas rockets had reached Tel Aviv for the first time since the summerlong war of 2014. That allowed Mr. Gantz, who prosecuted that war as army chief, to try to shame the Israeli press into focusing on more sober matters.“We are here in a story of an ongoing security event,” Mr. Gantz said, glowering in front of a barbed-wire fence, to dozens of journalists who had trekked the hour from Tel Aviv or Jerusalem shortly before the start of the Sabbath. “And in the reality we are in, someone suddenly broke some political, gossipy and completely delusional story.”Given that his party’s statement said there were no videos, he was asked, might there be embarrassing photos or correspondence? “I’m not going to stoop to that place,” he said, calling it “unethical nosiness.”Did he ever have a relationship with a woman that could be the basis for extortion? another reporter ventured. “I’m not subject to extortion under any circumstances,” he said, again refusing to go there.Mr. Gantz’s centrist Blue and White party is leading Mr. Netanyahu’s Likud in the polls in terms of the number of Parliament’s 120 seats it is expected to win. But the prime ministership is determined based on which leader can forge a majority governing coalition, a measure on which Mr. Gantz and his partners trail the incumbent and his right-wing allies.On Friday, Mr. Gantz flatly accused the prime minister of being “behind the reports about the telephone.”Mr. Gantz was informed of the hacking in early February by the Shin Bet, Israel’s domestic security service. That was before he joined forces with Yair Lapid, a former finance minister whose Yesh Atid party was trailing Mr. Gantz in the polls. Mr. Lapid agreed to let Mr. Gantz sit at the top of the ticket under an agreement that would have them swap the prime ministership midstream if they win.But Mr. Gantz did not apprise Mr. Lapid of the Iranian hack before striking that deal. In fact, Blue and White party officials said on Friday, Mr. Lapid and the two other former army chiefs of staff running alongside Mr. Gantz, Moshe Yaalon and Gabi Ashkenazi, were not informed of the breach until shortly before Thursday’s television report.Asked why he had not apprised his political brethren sooner, Mr. Gantz was dismissive. “Yair and the others aren’t relevant to this story,” he said.None of his three comrades, who have routinely campaigned alongside Mr. Gantz, joined him at the late-Friday news conference — though all three publicly echoed his contention that Mr. Netanyahu, who oversees the Shin Bet, had orchestrated the leak to damage him.Mr. Lapid said Mr. Netanyahu’s “use of sensitive security material to try to smear Benny Gantz proves he is scared of him.” And Mr. Yaalon told a TV interviewer that Mr. Netanyahu wanted to distract attention from the criminal cases in which he is accused of bribery, fraud and breach of trust.The prime minister’s office said that the chief of the Shin Bet, who reports directly to Mr. Netanyahu, had not briefed him or his aides about the hacking. His Likud party denied any hand in the leak.A security official involved in the matter said that Iran’s Ministry of Intelligence and Security, which has been engaged in a long-running spy-vs.-spy battle with Israel’s Mossad on multiple continents, had hacked Mr. Gantz’s phone and was behind a series of other cyber attacks against Israel.The incident was reminiscent of one early in Mr. Netanyahu’s rise to power. In 1993, he admitted to having an extramarital affair after he said anonymous rivals had threatened to release a compromising videotape. No tape was ever produced, and Mr. Netanyahu accused an archrival of being behind the scandal.David M. Halbfinger reported from Nahal Oz, Israel, and Ronen Bergman from Tel Aviv.

Supported byBy Tariq PanjaA computer hacker who for years published the innermost secrets of the global soccer industry — revelations that have shed light on questionable behavior by some of the sport’s most influential figures and top clubs — was told on Tuesday that he would be extradited to Portugal, where he faces charges linked to his activities.Lawyers for the man, Rui Pinto, 30, immediately said they planned to appeal the decision made by a court in Budapest, where he was arrested in January. They argued that his whistle-blowing activities far outweighed any crimes he might have committed in securing the documents. In Portugal, Mr. Pinto is charged with an extortion attempt in 2015 on a secretive investment fund that had bet millions of dollars in the player transfer market.The leaks first emerged in 2015, on a website called Football Leaks, before Mr. Pinto, a year later, joined with the German newsmagazine Der Spiegel and a group of other European news media organizations to slowly disseminate related news articles. They painted an unflattering picture of an industry troubled by questionable efforts to avoid millions of dollars in tax, flagrant rule breaking by some top clubs and an alleged sexual assault by one of soccer’s biggest stars, Cristiano Ronaldo.While the Portuguese authorities want to put Mr. Pinto on trial, their counterparts in France and Belgium have said they want to work with him, to gain access to the enormous database he has compiled as they continue investigations into figures in the soccer world. The ruling in Hungary makes that difficult, said Francisco Teixeira da Mota, who is part of a legal team that includes William Bourdon, a French lawyer who previously represented the national security whistle-blower Edward Snowden.Hungarian officials seized all of Mr. Pinto’s computer equipment, including hard drives containing the soccer industry data, when he was arrested. The Hungarian judge ruled that all of that can be sent to Portuguese authorities. That will chill efforts by the authorities in other countries, and make it impossible for further revelations to emerge, Mr. Teixeira da Mota said.“We think if he’s extradited to Portugal it would put a stop to all that,” he said, adding that the Portuguese case is limited to Mr. Pinto’s conduct in relation to the investment fund Doyen Sports and the soccer team Sporting Clube de Portugal.It is not clear how much of the data Der Spiegel possesses and how much of it the news weekly is prepared to share with investigators.While being hailed as a whistle-blower by many, Mr. Pinto’s past conduct has raised questions about his motives. He reached an out-of-court settlement with the Caledonian Bank after being accused of hacking into its systems and transferring thousands of dollars from one of its client accounts. Mr. Pinto denies he stole any of the money, but citing a nondisclosure agreement, he has declined to provide further details.As he awaits his fate, news media groups with access to his data continue to publish new revelations. As recently as last weekend, details emerged of an apparent effort by the Premier League giant Manchester City to circumvent fiscal rules set by European soccer’s governing body by disguising sponsorship payments, and another alleged scheme by the same club to run an off-the-books player recruitment fund.Mr. Pinto’s appeal is likely to take up to two weeks to be settled, his lawyer said.

Supported byBy Jamie TarabaySYDNEY, Australia — Prime Minister Scott Morrison of Australia on Monday blamed a “sophisticated state actor” for the recent hacking of Parliament’s computer network, raising the specter of foreign interference in the country’s politics weeks before a national election.The government has not identified the country behind the attack, but Mr. Morrison said that along with Parliament, the networks of the major political parties were also affected.Mr. Morrison did not detail how the country’s security agencies had detected or dealt with the malicious activity, but he insisted that “there is no evidence of any electoral interference.”Cybersecurity experts, he said, briefed the country’s electoral commissions and met with state and territory officials. “They have also worked with global antivirus companies to ensure Australia’s friends and allies have the capacity to detect this malicious activity,” he said.Alastair MacGibbon, the national cybersecurity adviser, said on Monday that the government had not learned the identity of the hacker before it acted to block the activity.That defensive action, he said, “also does other unpleasant things, like remove some of the forensic evidence we’re interested in.”A government cybersecurity expert said one difficulty in identifying the perpetrators was that the hackers used tools that had not previously been seen.The nations most likely to carry out such an attack are China and Russia, security experts said, though Iran, Israel and North Korea also have sophisticated cyberwarfare capabilities.Australia has frequently warned of Chinese interference in its politics. Last year, the government barred the Chinese technology giant Huawei from building a 5G telecommunications network. In a speech in October, the head of the Australian Signals Directorate, an intelligence agency, hinted that the decision was about maintaining the integrity of data and critical infrastructure.“If it is China, then I think it’s important for the public to know that,” said Alex Joske, a researcher at the International Cyber Policy Center in Canberra. “Discussions about Huawei and influence will be issues during the election, and letting the public know that the Chinese Communist Party was in our system is important knowledge.”Mr. Joske said Russia, which interfered in the 2016 United States presidential election, had less interest in the Australian election.After the American experience in 2016, Western democracies should be increasingly aware of the vulnerability of their institutions, said Roderick Jones, founder and president of the cybersecurity firm Rubica in San Francisco.“It is gross negligence to have any significant breach of a system at this point, given everything that’s happened around the world, to have a penetration of a parliamentary system is just negligent,” he said.The Australian hack was above all designed to damage voter confidence, Mr. Jones said.“People are suddenly questioning electronic voting, some of those processes get brought into focus and people stop having trust in them. Every Western election has had interference, every one has been damaged in some way. Russia and China are more allied than ever to destroy confidence in the system,” he said.The prime minister’s acknowledgment of the hack represented a departure from past policy, in which the government has been reluctant to single-handedly call out cyberattacks by foreign governments. Last April, Australia, the United States and Britain accused Russia of state-sponsored hacking. In December, Australia followed the United States in condemning Chinese hackers for trying to steal intellectual property.The Australian government’s conundrum now is what it will do once it has uncovered the identity of the foreign state actor, said Fergus Hanson, head of the International Cyber Policy Center.“This sets up Australia for its first attribution without a coalition, it’s never had the confidence to say that for an attack that just affected Australia,” he said. “In a couple of months’ time, they’re going to have to come out and say who was behind it and then they’ll have to react to it.”How the Australian government responds will be closely watched, not least by the other members of the Five Eyes intelligence-sharing alliance: the United States, Britain, Canada and New Zealand.“Will Australia fall out of the intelligence-sharing community if it doesn’t act, or is shown to have less than robust cybersecurity around key infrastructure?” asked Mr. Jones of Rubica. “There’s not a lot Australia can do, but that’s the point of alliances.”Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article misstated the nationality of Roderick Jones, founder and president of the cybersecurity firm Rubica. He is British, not American.Want more Australia coverage and discussion? Sign up for the weekly Australia Letter, start your day with your local Morning Briefing and join us in our Facebook group.

Supported byCalifornia TodayBy Jill CowanGood morning.(Here’s the sign-up, if you don’t already get California Today by email.)Attorney General Xavier Becerra added one more lawsuit yesterday to the several dozen he’s filed against the Trump administration. This one aims to block moves that would effectively strip millions of dollars in federal funding from reproductive health care providers that perform abortions or abortion referrals.For those still keeping count, the total is now 47. It’s a figure that has placed Mr. Becerra squarely at the center of California’s resistance, along with Gov. Gavin Newsom, who’s also taken rhetorical aim at the president’s policies on immigration and the environment.Last night, the police detained a longtime Sacramento Bee reporter and arrested dozens of demonstrators protesting District Attorney Anne Marie Schubert’s announcement that she wouldn’t criminally prosecute two officers who shot and killed Stephon Clark, a 22-year-old black man whom they said they believed had a gun, but was unarmed.Mr. Clark’s family and activists called on Mr. Becerra — who, as I wrote yesterday, wields considerable power to pick his battles — to file charges instead, or face political consequences.Unless you work in the field, it’s easy to forget that all around the state, scientists are working to solve the universe’s toughest puzzles, or hurtling toward world-changing discoveries.Recently, I talked to a team of researchers at U.C. Irvine and U.C. Riverside who managed to make a finding that could be world-changing — and it’s kind of terrifying.It’s possible to record the subtle sounds of a DNA synthesis machine working in a lab and then reverse-engineer whatever genetic materials the machine is making.In other words, it’s possible to hack such a machine by, in effect, listening to it.The idea for the project, said Mohammad Al Faruque, an associate professor of electrical engineering and computer science at U.C.I., stemmed from his previous work stealing blueprints for things printed by a 3-D printer.“If you can eavesdrop on a machine, you can understand what it’s making,” he said. “And with the 3-D printer, we demonstrated that.”But if what you’re stealing is a genetic blueprint, the stakes are much higher. It could be health information or pharmaceuticals — or the recipe for a biological weapon.Philip Brisk, a U.C. Riverside associate professor of computer science and engineering, said that because Microsoft was working on DNA data storage, the finding could have implications for information security.And William Grover, a U.C. Riverside assistant professor of bioengineering, said that while not everybody has a 3-D printer or a DNA synthesizer, lots of people have Alexas or Google Homes.“Everybody makes noises in their day-to-day business, which can be vulnerable to side-channel attacks,” he said. And medical machines like the ones in health care offices also make noise.Still, before you get the urge to wrap your house in tinfoil, team members said the research was encouraging.First, Mr. Al Faruque said, as engineering as a discipline undergoes “a paradigm shift,” research is the result of a new kind of collaboration that will be necessary to solve increasingly multifaceted problems. The team, for example, needed bioengineering experts as well as computer engineers.“We had the right grouping of players,” he said.Second, doing research that highlights vulnerabilities makes it possible to design products with solutions in mind.Mr. Brisk said that right now, cost is often the top priority in designing labs and products. But this kind of research, he said, forces designers and engineers to pay attention to security, too.“You could optimize so that there’s less information bouncing around,” he said. “I’m sure the right type of engineering expertise exists somewhere.”(We often link to sites that limit access for nonsubscribers. We appreciate your reading Times stories, but we’d also encourage you to support local news if you can.)• Thousands of students and teachers returned to school in Oakland on Monday after a deal to give teachers a raise and improve some school conditions ended a seven-day strike. But protests continued yesterday as district officials cut $21.75 million from the budget for things like administrative jobs and restorative justice programs. [The East Bay Times]• A year ago at the Conservative Political Action Conference, the political right’s annual extravaganza, Google hosted a lavish hospitality suite and Facebook passed out emoji cookies. This year, big tech is a boogeyman and its representatives are nowhere to be found. [The New York Times]• The state Supreme Court handed down an important pension decision yesterday. All sides are claiming a win. Here’s what that means. [CALmatters]• San Francisco’s mayor, London Breed, wants the city’s largest and newest homeless service center to be built at a port-owned property with a great view. [The San Francisco Chronicle]• Federal officials have charged a Long Beach man with causing an explosion at an Aliso Viejo spa last year that killed the man’s ex-girlfriend. [NBC News]• At the 40th anniversary of San Francisco mainstay Zuni Café, the restaurant still serves a sublime burger and a killer margarita. Check out recipes. [The New York Times]• “When I started, the biggest challenge was not to be afraid of cutting a Napoleon wrong.” Here’s how Porto’s Bakery employees are getting ready to open a new West Covina store. (It’s bound to be crazy busy.) [Los Angeles Daily News]• A LeBron James-led team might not make the playoffs. [The New York Times]• Luke Perry, who created a teen heartthrob archetype on “Beverly Hills, 90210,” died yesterday after having a stroke. He was 52. Tributes flowed. [The New York Times]Sacramento has an “active turkey season.” It’s right now. And according to The Sacramento Bee, the fowl are strutting all over town.Wild turkeys near the Capitol. Wild turkeys in the street. A wild turkey enamored with its own reflection at the California Department of Social Services building. Wild turkeys pecking at shiny cars.And lest you think that they’re friendly creatures, a spokeswoman for the city said they’re not.“Sometimes they’re nasty, they’ll chase you.”Still, there are things you can do if you run across a rafter of turkeys. Mostly, you should just leave them alone. If they won’t leave you alone, a spray of water or a loud noise might send them waddling away.California Today goes live at 6:30 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.Jill Cowan grew up in Orange County, went to school at U.C. Berkeley and has reported all over the state, including the Bay Area, Bakersfield and Los Angeles — but she always wants to see more. Follow along here or on Twitter, @jillcowan.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.

Supported byletterA reader suggests that some of the good guys may in fact be bad guys when it serves their purpose.To the Editor:“Avoiding Hacking Stereotypes”  (Inside The Times, Sept. 24), like other reporting on the subject, classifies hackers into two groups: the “good” guys and the “bad” guys. The good guys, the cybersecurity professionals, some of whom are former bad guys, work for companies and organizations to bolster defenses against the bad guys, who hack with nefarious intent. But how can we know that these respected and lauded good guys are always good? Human nature being what it is, some of the good guys may not always be immune to the pressures and greed that may result in working a cybersecurity gig by day and operating illicitly at night.The public and the companies that have critical information on their computers and devices always need to be vigilant and on guard even if they employ cybersecurity experts.Robert GordonHouston

Supported byBy Melissa EddyBERLIN — After hackers, later determined to be working for Russia, broke into Parliament’s main computer network three years ago, the government vowed to fortify its cybersecurity. The authorities schooled lawmakers about changing passwords, using two-step identification and other measures to protect online data.But on Friday, nearly 1,000 lawmakers and other prominent Germans, including rappers, journalists and internet personalities, awoke to find links to their street and email addresses, private chats from social media, bank account details and pictures of their children published on Twitter, in another major breach aimed at the country’s political establishment.All those attacked had a history of criticizing the far right, whose politicians appeared to be spared, raising suspicion that the hacker or hackers were sympathetic to their agenda, though the authorities said they had no indication yet who was behind the attack.The breach spread a fresh round of alarm in Germany, a country where citizens especially covet their privacy, and once again raised the disconcerting question of whether even the most vigilant and sophisticated individuals and governments can safeguard their computers and the valuable personal, financial and other sensitive information that resides there.Even beyond Germany, the attack fit into a building pattern of breaches with the seeming aim of shaking confidence in the political establishment or undermining important players in it.The weaponization of hacked information has become an increasingly common theme in politics, said Jonas Kaiser, a Harvard University expert who studies online misinformation.“A lot of leaks and hacking campaigns have become a more normal part of the political discourse,” he said.The most notable examples were emails from the Democratic National Committee that were stolen during the 2016 election in the United States and have become part of the investigation into whether Russia sought to tilt the vote in President Trump’s favor. On the eve of voting in France’s 2017 elections, hackers similarly made a public dump of what was presumed to be a mix of real and fake emails from the campaign of Emmanuel Macron, now the president.This time, the leaks went on for more than a month as the hackers teased and dribbled out their bounty. It was only late Thursday, when the Twitter account of a popular German YouTuber, Simon Unge, who has some two million followers, was hijacked that the extent of the attacks finally came into fuller light.Mr. Kaiser said the authorities would try to determine whether the attack was perpetrated by a state-backed group. The release of personal information by an individual or small group would generate a different response than one done by a government, he said.Cybersecurity experts said the hacker or hackers appeared to have taken considerable effort to collect and spread the looted information across different servers in an attempt to make tracing them and taking down the data more difficult.Angela Merkel’s government vowed a thorough investigation. “The German government takes this incident very seriously,” said Martina Fietz, a spokeswoman for the chancellor.As the country’s main cybersecurity defense team called a crisis meeting to coordinate with domestic and foreign intelligence agencies early Friday, Twitter took down the accounts used by a hacker calling himself GOd that had been broadcasting links to the information since early last month.The hacker released the information through links published on Twitter in the form of an Advent calendar, where a window is opened every day leading up to Christmas, revealing a picture or treat.“The first window is for a very special beloved moderator who everyone knows,” read the entry for Dec. 1, which included links to private information from the comedian Jan Böhmermann, who several months ago had started an initiative to discredit a group of far-right internet trolls.Starting on Dec. 20, Germany’s established political parties appeared, beginning with the Free Democrats and followed by the Left, the Greens and Social Democrats.Dec. 24 — the final day in the calendar — was reserved for the conservative Christian Democrats and Christian Social Union. The published link led to servers hosting lists of personal information ranging from internal party documents to screen shots of private chat exchanges to images of a personal ID card, front and back.Only the main opposition force in Parliament, the far-right Alternative for Germany, or AfD, was excluded. Stephan Brandner, a member of Parliament with the party responsible for justice affairs, condemned the hack. “Protection of private data goes for everyone, including politicians, regardless of which party they belong to,” he said.Germans prize personal privacy — a legacy of abuses by the Nazi- and Communist-era secret police — and the country has long had some of the world’s strictest laws protecting personal information. Germany was the first country to force Google to allow individuals to blur images of their homes on its Street View mapping service, following outrage over the amount of data the company was collecting.But German defenses have not caught up to German fears, rendering the country exceedingly vulnerable to attacks.Although the Twitter accounts used for disseminating the information were taken down early Friday, several hours later, many of the servers hosting the information remained accessible.Lukasz Olejnik, an independent cybersecurity and privacy adviser, said the attack showed deliberate planning. Dispersing the content among servers across the internet made it more likely the information would remain accessible even after Twitter shut down the account that initially published the links, he said.“The attacker’s intent is not clear at this moment but it is clear that a considerable effort was put in,” said Mr. Olejnik, who is also a research associate at the Center for Technology and Global Affairs at Oxford University. “It was work intensive.”Germany’s cybersecurity office said it was investigating whether the data was harvested in a central attack, a series of separate ones originating from different services, or in private communications.“At this time, there is no indication that the government network was breached,” the office, known by its German initials B.S.I., said in a statement.Beyond Germany, the hacking adds to concerns about the security of European parliamentary elections in May, which many officials fear are vulnerable to digital interference and disinformation campaigns by hackers or state-backed groups. Last month, European Union officials announced a plan to better coordinate responses to false messages around the elections.Leading members of the Greens and the Social Democrats said they filed criminal charges against unknown individuals for illegally publishing their personal data. A spokesman for the Left party confirmed that the information of some of its members had been exposed, including that of Dietmar Bartsch, the leader of its caucus in the lower house of Parliament.Mr. Böhmermann, the first person targeted in the leak, tried several months ago to organize opposition to the far-right group Reconquista Germanica, which spreads disinformation and harasses, provokes and belittles opponents.The data, which included Mr. Böhmermann’s phone numbers, personal chats and photographs of his two young sons, was advertised as, “Nice things that you can have fun with.”Germany’s main government network was breached by hackers in 2015, and the authorities worried that information obtained then would be used against politicians leading up to the 2017 election. Those fears were largely unfounded.Hackers appeared to have again penetrated the German government’s main data network last March — a system that was supposed to be particularly secure and is used by the chancellor’s office, ministries and Parliament.Luca Hammer, an independent German social media analyst who studies activity on Twitter, said that because no right-wing troll chat groups had picked up the leak, the hacker may have been a single individual.“They had to get into a popular Twitter account to get noticed,” he said over Twitter. “Therefore I assume they acted alone. But I don’t know.”The attack prompted warnings in German media about the need for greater vigilance by the government and of how individuals can better protect themselves online.A commentary in Süddeutsche Zeitung drew a parallel between the cyberattack and terrorism. “Even if in this case nobody has been injured or killed,” the aim of the hack was to trigger “a diffuse fear” in German society at large.“The question of whether public spaces are safe for the individual turns out to be the same for Facebook and the Outlook mailbox as it is for soccer stadiums and the Oktoberfest,” the paper wrote.Adam Satariano contributed reporting from London.Follow Melissa Eddy on Twitter: @meddynyt.

Supported byBy Azam AhmedMEXICO CITY — The messages arrived at a familiar moment of crisis for Mexico’s fragile journalist community — another reporter killed in the line of duty.Javier Valdez, a prominent investigative reporter, had been shot dead only a day earlier. Then came a sudden breakthrough: According to a text message received by his colleagues, his killers had been detained.Despite the tragedy, his co-workers were suspicious. More than 90 percent of murders go unsolved in Mexico. How did the authorities solve the case so soon?More likely, they worried, the text messages were an attempt to infiltrate their smartphones — part of a pattern of hacking attempts involving sophisticated spying technology bought by the Mexican government.They were right.The messages were infected with a spyware known as Pegasus, which the Mexican government purchased from an Israeli cyber arms dealer called the NSO Group, according to a forensic analysis by the Citizen Lab at the Munk School at the University of Toronto.A simple click on the links embedded in the messages would have infected the cellphones with spyware powerful enough to break through encrypted messaging, monitor emails and remotely activate the camera and microphone.Someone was trying to spy on Mr. Valdez’s closest friends and colleagues the day after he was killed last year — most likely the Mexican government, according to those targeted.“I believe they wanted to search our conversations and messages for clues to the murder of Javier, but we are absolutely against this,” said Ismael Bojórquez, the co-founder and news director of Rio Doce, the news organization where Mr. Valdez worked. “Nothing obtained illegally should be used in an investigation, and especially not from those who are involved professionally and emotionally to the victim.”The illegal use of the surveillance technology in Mexico first emerged during the administration of Mr. Peña Nieto, which bought the spyware on the condition that it be used only to target terrorists and criminals.But in the last year and a half, the Citizen Lab has confirmed nearly two dozen highly questionable targets, including some of Mexico’s most prominent journalists, human rights lawyers and anticorruption activists.When news of the surveillance erupted last year, the Mexican government denounced the spying and opened a federal investigation into any misuse of the technology.But the federal investigation has gone nowhere. Not a single individual has been punished for abusing the system.Well aware of the scandal, Mr. Bojórquez said he had little faith in the messages he was receiving. He and another target — the news director, Andres Villareal — refused to click on the links. They had reason to be suspicious.The men were running one of the few independent news groups in the nation, dedicated to covering organized crime and exposing the underbelly of Mexico’s vast nexus of crime and corruption.Their work made them few friends. Threats came with the territory, and not just from organized crime. Government data show that public officials are responsible for the greatest number of assaults and attacks on journalists.But Mr. Valdez’s work and international profile, they figured, protected him. He was known and beloved by local and foreign journalists alike, and was the recipient of awards and recognition globally.His death and the subsequent targeting of newsroom leaders exposed two of the most devastating risks to the freedom of expression in Mexico today.One is the physical threats to journalists and, by extension, freedom of speech in Mexico. More than 47 journalists have been killed since Mr. Peña Nieto took office in late 2012, 15 of them after Mr. Valdez’s death in May of last year, according to Article 19, a journalist protection group.“We believed that a journalist as prestigious as Javier was untouchable,” Mr. Bojórquez said.“When they killed Javier, we understood from that point on that they could kill anyone,” he added. “We understood that the paradigm had been broken.”The second risk is a separate but connected facet of the rule of law in Mexico: There is essentially near total impunity when it comes to how it is broken or applied — a dynamic underscored by the use of illegal spyware to intimidate and spy on pro-democracy voices.Dating back to 2016, the target list has been a who’s who of Mexico’s most prominent voices aiming to bring accountability to the nation, including the directors at Rio Doce.Mr. Bojórquez said he and others had become aware of the government’s potent spyware in February 2017, when the Citizen Lab and The New York Times published articles outlining its illicit use against backers of a nationwide soda tax.The investigations detailed the purchase of the spyware by the Mexican government, and included details about its proper use. The Israeli company claimed it had sold the software only to governments, and said it had measures in place to ensure that its clients followed the ethical guidelines stipulated in purchasing agreements.Mexico’s government was deeply embarrassed by the scandal. And yet months after the attempted hacking of doctors and activists promoting a tax on sugary drinks in Mexico, which is suffering a diabetes crisis, the targeting did not stop.“These infection attempts are reckless, and probably indefensible,” said John Scott-Railton, a senior researcher at Citizen Lab, adding that the company had already been exposed for abuses previously. “Where was the internal oversight? And where was NSO’s oversight?”“We hold ourselves to a rigorous standard of ethics and regulatory compliance and take any accusation seriously, no matter the source,” a spokesperson for NSO said. “We do not tolerate misuse of our products against civil rights activists, journalists or any innocent person. If there is suspicion of misuse, we investigate it and take the appropriate actions, including suspending or terminating a contract.”Mexico has become an emblem of problematic use of spyware. In a series of articles in 2017, The Times and the Citizen Lab detailed the extensive use of the malware against journalists, minors, human rights lawyers, politicians and anticorruption activists. It also included critics of the president.The NSO Group claimed that it monitored abuses of its software and intervened to stop clients from targeting people who did not fall within the permitted categories.But even after suspicious targeting was unveiled in February 2017, operators in Mexico continued their illicit spying.Mr. Peña Nieto’s tenure has been marked by scandals: the questionable purchase of a multimillion-dollar home by his wife from a favored government contractor; the unsolved disappearance of 43 students; and the widespread hacking of the nation’s nascent pro-democracy movement. His six years in office has also seen an unusual rise in homicides.By this summer, Mr. Peña Nieto’s long-dominant Institutional Revolutionary Party, which has governed for nearly a century with few interruptions, was practically broken. Across both houses of Congress and in the race for the presidency, it suffered devastating losses.In response to the latest reports about the targeting of Mr. Valdez’s colleagues in the aftermath of his murder, the government had little to say.Government officials did not comment on the specifics of the continuing investigation, but said that the government was open to collaborating with the victims and remains committed to pursuing any charges should evidence emerge.A new government comes into office in the next week, arriving on a wave of popular support. But whether the status of journalists will change in the country, and whether their targeting and abuse, and state overreach will subside, is an open question.“A change in government does not mean there will be a change in the context of impunity or aggressions against journalists,” Mr. Bojórquez said. “If there is no change to the impunity, the murder of journalists will continue.”

Supported byBy David E. SangerWASHINGTON — Marriott International said on Friday that the biggest hacking of personal information in history was not quite as big as first feared, but for the first time conceded that its Starwood hotel unit did not encrypt the passport numbers for roughly five million guests. Those passport numbers were lost in an attack that many outside experts believe was carried out by Chinese intelligence agencies.When the attack was first reported by Marriott at the end of November, it said that information on upward of 500 million guests may have been stolen, all from the reservations database of Starwood, a major hotel chain Marriot had acquired. But at the time, the company said that the figure was a worst-case scenario because it included millions of duplicate records.On Friday the firm said that teams of forensic and data analysts had identified “approximately 383 million records as the upper limit” for the total number of guest reservations records lost, though the company still says it has no idea who carried out the attack, and it suggested the figure would decline over time as more duplicate records are identified. The revised figure is still the largest loss in history, greater than the attack on Equifax, the consumer credit-reporting agency, which lost the driver’s license and Social Security numbers of roughly 145.5 million Americans in 2017, leading to the ouster of its chief executive and a huge loss of confidence in the firm.What made the Starwood attack different was the presence of passport numbers, which could make it far easier for an intelligence service to track people who cross borders. That is particularly important in this case: In December, The New York Times reported that the attack was part of a Chinese intelligence gathering effort that, reaching back to 2014, also hacked American health insurers and the Office of Personnel Management, which keeps security clearance files on millions of Americans.Taken together, the attack appeared to be part of a broader effort by China’s Ministry of State Security to compile a huge database of Americans and others with sensitive government or industry positions — including where they worked, the names of their colleagues, foreign contacts and friends, and where they travel.“Big data is the new wave for counterintelligence,” James A. Lewis, a cybersecurity expert who runs the technology policy program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, said last month.One top official of the Chinese Ministry of State Security was arrested in Belgium late last year and extradited to the United States on charges of playing a central role in the hacking of American defense-related firms, and others were identified in a Justice Department indictment in December. But those cases were unrelated to the Marriott attack, which the F.B.I. is still investigating.China has denied any knowledge of the Marriott attack. In December, Geng Shuang, a spokesman for its Ministry of Foreign Affairs, said, “China firmly opposes all forms of cyberattack and cracks down on it in accordance with the law.”“If offered evidence, the relevant Chinese departments will carry out investigations according to the law,” the spokesman added.The Marriott investigation has revealed a new vulnerability in hotel systems: What happens to passport data when a customer makes a reservation or checks into a hotel, usually abroad, and hands over a passport to the desk clerk. Marriott said for the first time that 5.25 million passport numbers were kept in the Starwood system in plain, unencrypted data files — meaning they were easily read by anyone inside the reservation system. An additional 20.3 million passport numbers were kept in encrypted files, which would require a master encryption key to read. It is unclear how many of those involved American passports, and how many come from other countries.“There is no evidence that the unauthorized third party accessed the master encryption key needed to decrypt the encrypted passport numbers,” Marriott said in a statement.It was not immediately clear why some numbers were encrypted and others were not — other than that hotels in each country, and sometimes each property, had different protocols for handling the passport information. Intelligence experts note that American intelligence agencies often seek the passport numbers of foreigners they are tracking outside the United States, which may explain why the United States government has not insisted on stronger encryption of passport data worldwide.Asked how Marriott was handling the information now that it has merged Starwood’s data into the Marriott reservations system — a merger that was just completed at the end of 2018 — Connie Kim, a company spokeswoman, said: “We are looking into our ability to move to universal encryption of passport numbers and will be working with our systems vendors to better understand their capabilities, as well as reviewing applicable national and local regulations.”The State Department issued a statement last month telling passport holders not to panic, because the number alone would not enable someone to create a fake passport. Marriott has said it would pay for a new passport for anyone whose passport information, hacked from their systems, was found to be involved in a fraud. But that was something of a corporate sleight of hand, since it provided no coverage for guests who wanted a new passport simply because their data had been taken by foreign spies.So far the company has ducked addressing that issue by saying it has no evidence about who the attackers were, and the United States has not formally accused China in the case. But private cyberintelligence groups that have looked at the breach have seen strong parallels with the other, Chinese-related attacks underway at the time. The company’s president and chief executive, Arne Sorenson, has not answered questions about the hacking in public, and Marriott said he was traveling and declined a request from The Times to talk about hacking.The company also said that about 8.6 million credit and debit cards were “involved” in the incident, but those are all encrypted — and all but 354,000 cards had expired by September 2018, when the hacking, which went on for years, was discovered.So far, there are no known cases in which stolen passport or credit card information was found in fraudulent transactions. But to cyberattack investigators, that is just another sign that the hacking was conducted by intelligence agencies, not criminals. The agencies would want to use the data for their own purposes — building databases and tracking government or industrial surveillance targets — rather than exploiting the data for economic profit.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.

Supported byBy David E. Sanger, Nicole Perlroth, Glenn Thrush and Alan RappeportWASHINGTON — The cyberattack on the Marriott hotel chain that collected personal details of roughly 500 million guests was part of a Chinese intelligence-gathering effort that also hacked health insurers and the security clearance files of millions more Americans, according to two people briefed on the investigation.The hackers, they said, are suspected of working on behalf of the Ministry of State Security, the country’s Communist-controlled civilian spy agency. The discovery comes as the Trump administration is planning actions targeting China’s trade, cyber and economic policies, perhaps within days.Those moves include indictments against Chinese hackers working for the intelligence services and the military, according to four government officials who spoke on the condition of anonymity. The Trump administration also plans to declassify intelligence reports to reveal Chinese efforts dating to at least 2014 to build a database containing names of executives and American government officials with security clearances.Other options include an executive order intended to make it harder for Chinese companies to obtain critical components for telecommunications equipment, a senior American official with knowledge of the plans said.The moves stem from a growing concern within the administration that the 90-day trade truce negotiated two weeks ago by President Trump and President Xi Jinping in Buenos Aires might do little to change China’s behavior — including the coercion of American companies to hand over valuable technology if they seek to enter the Chinese market, as well as the theft of industrial secrets on behalf of state-owned companies.The hacking of Marriott’s Starwood chain, which was discovered only in September and revealed late last month, is not expected to be part of the coming indictments. But two of the government officials said that it has added urgency to the administration’s crackdown, given that Marriott is the top hotel provider for American government and military personnel.It also is a prime example of what has vexed the Trump administration as China has reverted over the past 18 months to the kind of intrusions into American companies and government agencies that President Barack Obama thought he had ended in 2015 in an agreement with Mr. Xi.Geng Shuang, a spokesman for China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs, denied any knowledge of the Marriott hacking. “China firmly opposes all forms of cyberattack and cracks down on it in accordance with the law,” he said. “If offered evidence, the relevant Chinese departments will carry out investigations according to the law.”Trade negotiators on both sides of the Pacific have been working on an agreement under which China would commit to purchasing $1.2 trillion more of American goods and services over the next several years, and would address intellectual property concerns.Mr. Trump said Tuesday that the United States and China were having “very productive conversations” as top American and Chinese officials held their first talks via telephone since the two countries agreed to a truce on Dec. 1.But while top administration officials insist that the trade talks are proceeding on a separate track, the broader crackdown on China could undermine Mr. Trump’s ability to reach an agreement with Mr. Xi.American charges against senior members of China’s intelligence services risk hardening opposition in Beijing to negotiations with Mr. Trump. Another obstacle is the targeting of high-profile technology executives, like Meng Wanzhou, the chief financial officer of the communications giant Huawei and daughter of its founder.The arrest of Ms. Meng, who has been detained in Canada on suspicion of fraud involving violations of United States sanctions against Iran, has angered China. She was granted bail of 10 million Canadian dollars, or $7.5 million, while awaiting extradition to the United States, a Canadian judge ruled on Tuesday.Mr. Trump, in an interview on Tuesday with Reuters, said that he would consider intervening in the Huawei case if it would help serve national security and help get a trade deal done with China. Such a move would essentially pit Mr. Trump against his own Justice Department, which coordinated with Canada to arrest Ms. Meng as she changed planes in Vancouver, British Columbia.“If I think it’s good for what will be certainly the largest trade deal ever made — which is a very important thing — what’s good for national security — I would certainly intervene if I thought it was necessary,” Mr. Trump said.American business leaders have been bracing for retaliation from China, which has demanded the immediate release of Ms. Meng and accused both the United States and Canada of violating her rights.On Tuesday, the International Crisis Group said that one of its employees, a former Canadian diplomat, had been detained in China. The disappearance of the former diplomat, Michael Kovrig, could further inflame tensions between China and Canada.“We are doing everything possible to secure additional information on Michael’s whereabouts, as well as his prompt and safe release,” the group said in a statement on its website.From the first revelation that the Marriott chain’s computer systems had been breached, there was widespread suspicion in both Washington and among cybersecurity firms that the hacking was not a matter of commercial espionage, but part of a much broader spy campaign to amass Americans’ personal data.While American intelligence agencies have not reached a final assessment of who performed the hacking, a range of firms brought in to assess the damage quickly saw computer code and patterns familiar to operations by Chinese actors.The Marriott database contains not only credit card information but passport data. Lisa Monaco, a former homeland security adviser under Mr. Obama, noted last week at a conference that passport information would be particularly valuable in tracking who is crossing borders and what they look like, among other key data.But officials on Tuesday said it was only part of an aggressive operation whose centerpiece was the 2014 hacking into the Office of Personnel Management. At the time, the government bureau loosely guarded the detailed forms that Americans fill out to get security clearances — forms that contain financial data; information about spouses, children and past romantic relationships; and any meetings with foreigners.Such information is exactly what the Chinese use to root out spies, recruit intelligence agents and build a rich repository of Americans’ personal data for future targeting. With those details and more that were stolen from insurers like Anthem, the Marriott data adds another critical element to the intelligence profile: travel habits.James A. Lewis, a cybersecurity expert at the Center for Strategic Studies in Washington, said the Chinese have collected “huge pots of data” to feed a Ministry of State Security database seeking to identify American spies — and the Chinese people talking to them.“Big data is the new wave for counterintelligence,” Mr. Lewis said.“It’s big-data hoovering,” said Dmitri Alperovitch, the chief technology officer at CrowdStrike, who first highlighted Chinese hacking as a threat researcher in 2011. “This data is all going back to a data lake that can be used for counterintelligence, recruiting new assets, anticorruption campaigns or future targeting of individuals or organizations.”In the Marriott case, Chinese spies stole passport numbers for up to 327 million people — many of whom stayed at Sheraton, Westin and W hotels and at other Starwood-branded properties. But Marriott has not said if it would pay to replace those passports, an undertaking that would cost tens of billions of dollars.Instead, Connie Kim, a Marriott spokeswoman, said the hotel chain would cover the cost of replacement if “fraud has taken place.” That means the company would not cover the cost of having exposed private data to the Chinese intelligence agencies if they did not use it to conduct commercial transactions — even though that is a breach of privacy and, perhaps, security.And even for those guests who did not have passport information on file with the hotels, their phone numbers, birth dates and itineraries remain vulnerable.That data, Mr. Lewis and others said, can be used to track which Chinese citizens visited the same city, or hotel, as an American intelligence agent who was identified in data taken from the Office of Personnel Management or from American health insurers that document patients’ medical histories and Social Security numbers.The effort to amass Americans’ personal information so alarmed government officials that in 2016, the Obama administration threatened to block a $14 billion bid by China’s Anbang Insurance Group Co. to acquire Starwood Hotel &amp; Resorts Worldwide, according to one former official familiar with the work of the Committee on Foreign Investments in the United States, a secretive government body that reviews foreign acquisitions.Ultimately, the failed bid cleared the way later that year for Marriott Hotels to acquire Starwood for $13.6 billion, becoming the world’s largest hotel chain.As it turned out, it was too late: Starwood’s data had already been stolen by Chinese state hackers, though the breach was not discovered until this past summer, and was disclosed by Marriott on Nov. 30.It is unclear that any kind of trade agreement reached with China by the Trump administration can address this kind of theft.The Chinese regard intrusions into hotel chain databases as a standard kind of espionage. So does the United States, which has often seized guest data from foreign hotels.Even the Office of Personnel Management hacking was viewed by American intelligence officials with some admiration. “If we had the opportunity to do the same thing, we’d probably do it,” James R. Clapper Jr., the former director of national intelligence, told Congress afterward.“One thing is very clear to me, and it is that they are not going to stop this,” Mr. Alperovitch said. “This is what any nation-state intelligence agency would do. No nation-state is going to handcuff themselves and say, ‘You can’t do this,’ because they all engage in similar detection.”Since 2012, analysts at the National Security Agency and its British counterpart, the GCHQ, have watched with growing alarm as sophisticated Chinese hackers, based in Tianjin, began switching targets from companies and government agencies in the defense, energy and aerospace sectors to organizations that housed troves of Americans’ personal information.At the time, one classified National Security Agency report noted that the hackers’ “exact affiliation with Chinese government entities is not known, but their activities indicate a probable intelligence requirement feed” from China’s Ministry of State Security.David E. Sanger, Glenn Thrush and Alan Rappeport reported from Washington, and Nicole Perlroth from San Francisco. Katie Benner contributed reporting from Washington.

Supported byGood Friday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today._____________________• After seven years of hiding in the Ecuadorean Embassy in London, Julian Assange, the founder of WikiLeaks, was arrested on Thursday after Ecuador revoked his asylum status. Mr. Assange faces a charge in the United States of conspiring to hack a Pentagon computer as part of the 2010 release of secret American documents by Chelsea Manning.• Mr. Assange’s indictment makes no mention of the central role WikiLeaks played in the Russian campaign to undermine the 2016 presidential election. It remains unclear whether his arrest will be a key to unlocking any of the lingering mysteries surrounding Russia and the Trump campaign.• At the tiny Ecuadorean Embassy, he ran WikiLeaks, held news conferences, rode his skateboard in the halls and hosted visitors like Pamela Anderson. Here’s the story of Mr. Assange’s seven years in isolation.• The creation of WikiLeaks empowered a generation of whistle-blowers, enraging the powerful in many countries. But Mr. Assange himself became a highly problematic champion for the principles of freedom of the press and the public’s right to information.• Gregory B. Craig, a former aide to President Barack Obama, was charged with lying to the Justice Department and concealing information about work he did for the Russia-aligned government of Ukraine in 2012.• The former F.B.I. director James B. Comey said he knew of no electronic surveillance aimed at the Trump campaign during the 2016 election, contradicting Attorney General William P. Barr’s speculations that the bureau had spied on the campaign.• As the United States and China edge closer to a trade agreement, securing a firm commitment from China to hold up its end of the deal will help determine whether it's seen as a real win for President Trump or just a capitulation.• Congress is leaving for a two-week spring recess without fulfilling the most pressing item on its agenda: aid to victims of floods, fires, and hurricanes. The biggest point of contention? Helping Puerto Rico.• During the House Democrats’ annual retreat, the leadership criticized the president on immigration and his choices for the Federal Reserve, but also hoped to cut deals with him and Senate Republicans that will allow them to deliver on their campaign promises.• At least four Republican senators indicated they wouldn’t support Herman Cain, Mr. Trump’s choice for the Fed board, leaving the former pizza magnate’s chances all but dead.• Mr. Trump said Thursday that he would be open to a third summit meeting with North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un. He hopes to resuscitate negotiations that foundered six weeks ago in Vietnam._____________________Today’s On Politics briefing was compiled by Isabella Grullón Paz in New York.Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox.Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.

Supported byBy David E. Sanger and Steven ErlangerWASHINGTON — Updated Wednesday, Dec. 19: The United Nations spokesman has issued a comment about the breach and the National Security Agency said it would decline to comment. Both are included in the story below. Hackers infiltrated the European Union’s diplomatic communications network for years, downloading thousands of cables that reveal concerns about an unpredictable Trump administration and struggles to deal with Russia and China and the risk that Iran would revive its nuclear program.In one cable, European diplomats described a meeting between President Trump and President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia in Helsinki, Finland, as “successful (at least for Putin).”Another cable, written after a July 16 meeting, relayed a detailed report and analysis of a discussion between European officials and President Xi Jinping of China, who was quoted comparing Mr. Trump’s “bullying” of Beijing to a “no-rules freestyle boxing match.”The techniques that the hackers deployed over a three-year period resembled those long used by an elite unit of China’s People’s Liberation Army. The cables were copied from the secure network and posted to an open internet site that the hackers set up in the course of their attack, according to Area 1, the firm that discovered the breach.Area 1 made more than 1,100 of the hacked European Union cables available to The New York Times. The White House National Security Council did not have an immediate comment on Tuesday.[Read a selection of the cables here.]The compromised material provides insight into Europe’s struggle to understand the political turmoil engulfing three continents. It includes memorandums of conversations with leaders in Saudi Arabia, Israel and other countries that were shared across the European Union.But it also revealed the huge appetite by hackers to sweep up even the most obscure details of international negotiations.The cyberintruders also infiltrated the networks of the United Nations, the A.F.L.-C.I.O., and ministries of foreign affairs and finance worldwide. The hack of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. focused on issues surrounding the negotiations over the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a trade deal that excluded Beijing.Part of the United Nations material focuses on months in 2016, when North Korea was actively launching missiles, and appears to include references to private meetings of the world body’s secretary-general and his deputies with Asian leaders. The United Nations “has no information about “a possible cyber breach at the U.N. allegedly carried out by Chinese hackers,” said a spokesman, Stephane Dujarric de la Riviere. He said cyberattacks are “only reported internally, and for most incidents the United Nations does not have sufficient information to conclusively attribute such attacks.”Some of the more than 100 organizations and institutions were targeted years ago. But many were not aware of the breach until a few days ago, when some were alerted by Area 1, a firm founded by three former officials of the National Security Agency.The cables include extensive reports by European diplomats of Russia’s moves to undermine Ukraine, including a warning on Feb. 8 that Crimea, which Moscow annexed four years ago, had been turned into a “hot zone where nuclear warheads might have already been deployed.” American officials say they have not seen evidence of nuclear warheads in Crimea.The European diplomats’ account of their private meeting in July with Mr. Xi quoted the Chinese president vowing that his country “would not submit to bullying” from the United States, “even if a trade war hurt everybody.”“China was not a backward country anymore,” the European note taker described Mr. Xi as saying.In their conversations with American officials after the Helsinki meeting in July, European diplomats described efforts by the White House to engage in damage control after Mr. Trump had gone off-script during a joint news conference with Mr. Putin.Mr. Trump appeared to agree to allow Russians to question former American diplomats in exchange for the American interrogation of Russians who had been indicted by Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel. According to a July 20 document describing their private exchanges, White House officials assured the Europeans that Mr. Trump’s agreement would be “nipped down” to prevent the questioning of Americans.A March 7 cable summarized the difficulties in relations between the United States and the European Union that had developed during the Trump administration. In it, a senior European official in Washington spoke of “messaging efforts” to deal “with the negative attitude to the E.U. in the beginning, which had created a lot of insecurity.”The official, Caroline Vicini, deputy head of the European Union mission in Washington, recommended that diplomats from the 28 member nations describe the United States as “our most important partner” even as it stood up to Mr. Trump “in areas where we disagreed with the U.S. (e.g., on climate, trade, Iran nuclear deal).”The cable also recommended working around Mr. Trump by dealing directly with Congress, and urged European diplomats in Washington to emphasize member state interest when pushing on a host of issues, including trade, renewable energy and Brexit.In a statement on Tuesday night, the European Union’s secretariat said it “is aware of allegations regarding a potential leak of sensitive information and is actively investigating the issue.”But it seemed to avoid the issues raised by the disclosure, saying it “does not comment on allegations nor on matters relating to operational security.”The trove of European cables is reminiscent of the WikiLeaks publication of 250,000 State Department cables in 2010. But they are not as extensive and consist of low-level classified documents that were labeled limited and restricted.The more secretive communications — including a level known as “tres secret” — were kept on a separate system that is being upgraded and replaced, according to European officials. And cables that focused on decisions about world powers’ 2015 nuclear deal with Iran — from which Mr. Trump withdrew the United States in May — are walled off from the internet in an entirely different system.Unlike WikiLeaks in 2010 or the Russian hack of the Democratic National Committee and other Democratic Party leaders in 2016, the cyberattack on the European Union made no effort to publish the stolen material. Instead, it was a matter of pure espionage, said one former senior intelligence official familiar with the issue who spoke on the condition of anonymity.It also displayed the remarkably poor protection of routine exchanges among European Union officials after years of embarrassing government leaks around the world.In this case, the cables were exposed after a run-of-the-mill phishing campaign aimed at diplomats in Cyprus pierced the island nation’s systems, said Oren Falkowitz, the chief executive of Area 1.“People talk about sophisticated hackers, but there was nothing really sophisticated about this,” Mr. Falkowitz said. After getting into the Cyprus system, the hackers had access to passwords that were needed to connect to the European Union’s entire database of exchanges.Area 1’s investigators said they believed the hackers worked for the Strategic Support Force of the People’s Liberation Army, part of an organization that emerged from the Chinese signals intelligence agency that was once called 3PLA.“After over a decade of experience countering Chinese cyberoperations and extensive technical analysis, there is no doubt this campaign is connected to the Chinese government,” said Blake Darche, one of the Area 1’s experts.The Chinese Embassy in Washington did not return calls for comment on Tuesday.After burrowing into the European network, called COREU (or Courtesy), the hackers had the run of communications linking the European Union’s 28 countries, on topics ranging from trade and tariffs to terrorism to summaries of summit meetings, from the vital to the insignificant.Many of the reports were the ordinary business of diplomacy — weekly reports from missions from places like Kosovo, Serbia, Albania, Russia, China, Ukraine and Washington, and included descriptions of conversations with leaders and other diplomats or visits to non-European countries.Among the cables were requests for authorization to finance exports to Iran, as well as details of efforts throughout 2018 to continue economic arrangements that might entice Tehran to comply with the terms of the 2015 nuclear agreement’s terms, even after Mr. Trump abandoned it.There was also an inquiry about whether to allow Dmitry O. Rogozin, a former Russian deputy foreign minister who had called for the annexation of Crimea, to travel to Austria for an international meeting on “the peaceful uses of outer space.” At the time, Mr. Rogozin was under European financial sanctions.There was much analysis in the cables of foreign policy and of Europe’s strategies on issues of trade, counterterrorism, migration and enlargement that could be picked apart by China and other countries looking for an advantage.Asked about the hack, the National Security Agency said on Wednesday it would decline to comment. But the former senior intelligence official said that the European Union had been warned, repeatedly, that its aging communications system was highly vulnerable to hacking by China, Russia, Iran and other states.The official said the warnings were usually received with a shrug.European officials said they are now trying to overhaul their outdated and vulnerable networks — an expensive process in which technological improvements usually cannot protect against flawed human judgment. They insisted that confidential, secret and “tres secret” material is handled differently than the cables seized by the hackers and noted that a new system, known as EC3IS, is being developed to handle the more sensitive documents that are shared among the diplomats.For communications in capitals like Moscow and Beijing, yet another network, known as Zeus, is being installed for delegations of member states.The Europeans appear, belatedly, to be waking up to the threat. Its senior staff members increasingly use encrypted telephones, and isolated “speech rooms” of Lucite are being installed in key posts. One such room is already used for a daily 8:30 a.m. meeting of senior staff members, and another is in use in the European Council building in Brussels for intelligence briefings.“Of course no security system is foolproof, and they must constantly be upgraded,” one senior E.U. official said.David E. Sanger reported from Washington, and Steven Erlanger from Brussels.

Supported byBy Tariq PanjaLONDON — FIFA acknowledged this week that its computer systems were hacked earlier this year for the second time, and officials from European soccer’s governing body fear they also might have suffered a data breach.The hack on FIFA, world soccer’s governing body, occurred in March and is not thought to be connected to a cyberattack orchestrated by a group linked to Russia’s intelligence agency in 2017. That incident led to the publication of a list of failed drug tests by soccer players.The information that was compromised in the second cyberattack on FIFA is not yet clear, but a consortium of European media organizations plans to publish a series of stories based in part on the internal documents as early as Friday. The group Football Leaks originally obtained the documents.UEFA officials were targeted in a so-called phishing operation in which third parties fool their targets into giving up password-protected login details, though the organization has been unable to find traces of a hack in its computer systems.In recent weeks, both FIFA and UEFA have received hundreds of questions, including several related to information contained in confidential documents. FIFA’s president, Gianni Infantino, was UEFA’s most senior administrator before being elected to lead global soccer in 2016.FIFA officials discussed the prospect of a new hack, and more uncomfortable revelations in the news media, on the edges of the FIFA Council meeting last week in Kigali, Rwanda.Information published by Football Leaks has rattled global soccer since 2015, when stolen documents emerged on a specially created website. Since the initial leak, a trove of emails, contracts and private messages have been obtained exclusively by the German weekly newsmagazine Der Spiegel. Der Spiegel has sought to deal with the volume of information it received by sharing it with an investigative reporting consortium called European Investigative Collaborations.The leaks have uncovered some of soccer’s biggest secrets, shining light on dubious practices that have led to tougher regulations in soccer and in some cases, criminal prosecutions. FIFA earlier this year announced planned changes to the $6 billion transfer market, in part as a response to dealing unveiled by Football Leaks, and Spanish authorities have successfully prosecuted top players and coaches for tax evasion.Most recently, information obtained from the leak led to articles in Der Spiegel that revealed the details of a nondisclosure agreement Cristiano Ronaldo signed with a Las Vegas woman who accused the Portuguese star of sexually assaulting her in 2009. Ronaldo has denied the charges and, though his lawyers, threatened to sue the magazine.A coordinator with E.I.C. said he could not comment on the content of the next batch of articles, or even if any would be published. FIFA issued a statement criticizing the leaks of stolen information.“FIFA condemns any attempts to compromise the confidentiality, integrity and availability of data in any organization using unlawful practices,” FIFA said.Asked about the leaks, Infantino said he had tried to do his work honestly. That has meant having discussions and sharing ideas and documents with numerous people, he added.“If then this is being portrayed as something bad then I think there’s not much I can do other than my job,” he said during a conversation in Kigali last week. “We are not stealing.”Details of the person or group behind Football Leaks were presented in a book written by two reporters from Der Spiegel and published earlier this year. The group told the authors that its aim is to cleanse world soccer by exposing bad actors.Football Leaks is not the only major data breach that has roiled soccer, or global sports. In October, the United States Department of Justice announced charges against seven Russian intelligence officers who it said had successfully compromised the networks of organizations including FIFA and The International Olympic Committee.And for most of the past year, confidential emails belonging to the Portuguese club Benfica have surfaced on the internet. Those leaks have highlighted how the club has tried to influence senior figures in soccer and forged close links to officials responsible for refereeing. Benfica has denied wrongdoing and sought Google’s help in identifying those who have republished the documents.

Supported byEven if not a single voting machine has been compromised, we’re in trouble.By Zeynep TufekciDr. Tufekci is the author of “Twitter and Tear Gas: The Power and Fragility of Networked Protest.” As the 2018 midterm election nears, an ominous question looms: Will this election be hacked?The answer is: Yes, it has already been hacked.This election has already been hacked even if not a single voting machine has been compromised. It has already been hacked even if not another ruble has been spent on spreading disinformation. It has already been hacked even if voter registration information has been undisturbed and no vote tallies are altered.Why? Because the legitimacy of an election depends on the electorate accepting that it was fair, that everyone who tried to vote got to vote and that every vote counted. Lose that, and your voting system might as well have suffered a devastating technological attack.Unfortunately, in much of the United States, we are no longer able to assure people that none of those things has happened. A recent poll shows that 46 percent of the American electorate do not think their votes will be counted fairly, and about a third think it is likely that a foreign country will tamper with the results.That loss of trust has itself become a form of voter discouragement. Why vote, when you feel it may not matter? Why register, when you fear you may be tossed off the rolls?Creating or allowing the loss of trust in democratic institutions is a great facilitator of authoritarianism. It works though a vicious cycle: The more that you can convince people that democratic institutions aren’t working, the less that people will fight to protect and improve them — and the less that people fight to protect and improve democratic institutions, the worse they will perform.The actual problems in the electoral infrastructure are considerable. For example, just three companies produce all the voting machines. Such centralization would be dangerous even if the machines weren’t so vulnerable — which, unfortunately, they are.But apart from such clearly urgent concerns, there is a bewildering array of concerns of a less valid nature, ranging from the uncertain to the dubious to the exaggerated to the outright baseless. On social media, I regularly come across all of these. I can’t blame people even for the baseless concerns. As someone who has studied electoral infrastructure for years, I, too, sometimes struggle to differentiate the grounded worries from the ungrounded ones. Yes, Georgia is running its election on old Windows 2000 machines (so old that Microsoft no longer supports the operating system for security updates), with no means of voter verification, audits or recounts. No, people in Georgia whose names aren’t exact matches between voter rolls and other forms of identification will not be blocked from voting in this election — thanks to a federal judge who ruled on Friday that the state’s “exact match” rules for registration won’t apply for this election. But yes, they could be removed from the voter rolls for the next election. And so on.If experts have to scramble to stay abreast of the latest news, how are most voters supposed to know what’s what?We have done something even worse than letting our electoral infrastructure crumble, something even worse than allowing the instruments of the voting process (voter registration data, polling places) to become political weapons. We have gotten ourselves into a place where the mechanisms of accountability and transparency that are the bedrock of any sensible election process no longer operate in many parts of the country.This has all the makings of a political crisis. It needs to be stopped now, before the vicious cycle spins beyond our control.Stopping it will require embracing every democratic institution that is failing to some degree (electoral infrastructure, media, local government) and trying to fix it. That means fighting cynicism — standing up for important institutions even as they are letting us down.It also means voting, even in an imperfect system. Voting remains the key tool of legitimacy for any government. If it didn’t matter, it wouldn’t be so much under attack. Even dictatorships hold mock votes, because “we won the election” remains the strongest argument for legitimacy of rule. Voting is so powerful that even a hollowed-out version holds sway.But overhauling the electoral infrastructure has to be a priority. The voting process should be overseen by nonpartisan officials or monitored through an adversarial process (with input from representatives of all parties). Recently, the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine released a comprehensive study, “Securing the Vote,” which offers extensive practical recommendations. Luckily, fewer and fewer electronic voting machines remain in use around the country; they should be replaced with optical-scan ballots. Meaningful audit processes should be instituted nationwide. States need federal money to upgrade their voting machines, train their poll workers and secure and upgrade their pollbooks (which maintain voter identification information).Paradoxically, the crumbling, mismatched and patchwork nature of our electoral infrastructure makes it unlikely that we will see large-scale computerized hacking that alters the political landscape. The failure to vote because of cynicism and mistrust is the bigger threat to the integrity of our elections.To fix that, we need to elect politicians whose platforms include the need for demonstrably fair elections. And that requires voting — warts, failings and everything else aside. Sometimes, working with what you have, rather than surrendering to cynicism, is the only strategy.Zeynep Tufekci (@zeynep) is an associate professor at the School of Information and Library Science at the University of North Carolina, the author of “Twitter and Tear Gas: The Power and Fragility of Networked Protest” and a contributing opinion writer.

Supported byBy Tariq PanjaOver the past four years, some of the most damning secrets of the professional soccer industry have been exposed by a deluge of leaks that have shined an unflattering light on some of the sport’s most popular clubs, players and coaches.Last week the man behind the leaks, a 30-year-old Portuguese citizen named Rui Pinto, was arrested in Budapest, Hungary. He faces extradition to his home country on the charges, which include an extortion attempt in 2015 on a secretive investment fund that had bet millions of dollars in the player transfer market.For the moment, though, Pinto’s fate depends on a far narrower matter: whether his team of lawyers can successfully argue that he is a whistle-blower under Hungarian law — a defendant whose actions to expose malpractice and, potentially, a raft of financial and other crimes in soccer outweigh any offenses he might have committed.In the view of the Portuguese authorities, Pinto is guilty of extortion and violation of secrecy in relation to his contact with the investment fund, Doyen Sports. They and Doyen have accused him of threatening to publish internal company documents — revealing transfer fees and secret payments — unless the fund paid him to keep the documents private.Those documents, which offered a window into both Doyen’s business model and its bank accounts, were later published on the website known as Football Leaks. The revelations, along with a number of player contracts posted on the site, exposed a murky world of soccer finance that was at best unsavory and at worst in violation of national and international soccer regulations.Ultimately, Pinto turned over about 70 million documents and 3.4 terabytes of information to a German newsmagazine, Der Spiegel, which shared documents with a select group of news media outlets who published reports on their contents.Now that Pinto has been arrested on a Portuguese warrant, his case represents a high-profile test of a Hungarian law passed in 2014 that affords special protection to whistle-blowers. His lawyers plan to argue that the leads his leaked documents provided to a variety of European law enforcement organizations outweigh Pinto’s actions.“Based on the leaks, there have been some extremely important criminal investigations opened with prosecutions in various countries,” said William Bourdon, Pinto’s lawyer, who previously has represented the national-security whistle-blower Edward Snowden. “Without Pinto, this wouldn’t have been possible.”Those investigations include several tax cases in Spain, where top soccer stars, including Cristiano Ronaldo, have been prosecuted for tax evasion after Football Leaks revealed details of the complicated structures through which they received millions of dollars in salaries and image rights. (Pinto’s lawyers said that he also has been in contact with French financial crimes prosecutors since late 2016.)More recently, Football Leaks disclosures have targeted the FIFA president, Gianni Infantino, and the ways some top clubs might have circumvented the sport’s financial regulations. The revelations also led to the reopening of a sexual assault case against Ronaldo.Unlike in most whistle-blower cases, however, Pinto has no official connection with the soccer industry — no access to clubs’ books or a players’ contracts — beyond being a fan of the game.“For me, it doesn’t make a difference considering what is the basis of whistle-blower protection: the intensity of the contribution to the public interest,” Bourdon said. “This is the key point.”Bourdon said Pinto already had agreed to assist the authorities in Switzerland, and that Germany’s tax agency was seeking access to his information, too. But it is the decision of a Hungarian judge that matters most to him at the moment, since that will determine whether or not he avoids extradition to Portugal.“We expect the Hungarian judge to be sensitive to the paradoxical situation,” Bourdon said, “that on one hand he’s being prosecuted in Portugal, while on the other he has been providing assistance to prosecutors in other countries.”Bourdon said that he sees little difference between Pinto and one of his former clients, Hervé Falciani, who leaked account details of clients of the British bank HSBC while he worked in Geneva. Falciani’s disclosures, which shook the secretive world of Swiss banking, revealed accounts containing more than $100 billion, and led to the bank’s agreeing to pay 300 million euros (about $340 million) to French authorities to settle a tax-evasion investigation.Spain’s high court last September rejected an extradition request for Falciani — once labeled the Edward Snowden of banking — from Switzerland.In addition to Pinto’s extradition, the Portuguese police have demanded the entirety of the computer equipment seized from him in Hungary. Bourdon called that an overreach because their case is limited to the suspected 2015 extortion attempt.Bourdon acknowledged that Pinto had attempted to make contact with Doyen once he had the company’s documents, but he said the extortion charges were not valid because Pinto ultimately “didn’t follow through” with an operation to secure a payment.Bourdon described the charges as “a tool to criminalize him, to target him as an offender and not a whistle-blower.”Little is known about Pinto. A Der Spiegel reporter, Rafael Buschman, is the only journalist known to have contact with an individual connected with Football Leaks. Buschman has written a series of breathless accounts and a book detailing his relationship with a man he referred to as “John.” Der Spiegel has not confirmed Pinto is its source.But a September report by the Portuguese magazine Sabado reported Pinto was the “computer genius” behind Football Leaks. Shortly after its article was published, a message was posted on Football Leaks’ Facebook page that appeared to taunt Portuguese authorities, signing off with “#catchmeifyoucan.”In a video posted to websites including YouTube after a court appearance in Budapest last week, Pinto, dressed in a brown leather jacket and jeans, appeared relaxed as he sat on a wooden bench outside the courtroom with his hands cuffed in front of him. Pinto’s lawyers managed to secure house arrest for him until the judge delivers a verdict.“Jurisprudence and regulations say there is a question of proportionality between the seriousness of the offense and the importance to public interest,” Bourdon said. “You could violate the law, could be hacking, or stealing, and if the contribution is tremendous then it’s not a crime.“It will be a historic decision for a Hungarian judge to make.”

Supported byYour MoneyThe hotel chain hasn’t said how many of the 500 million customers affected by a data breach had their passport numbers stolen. But the State Department and privacy experts disagree on the danger.By Ron LieberIt has become a familiar dance: A company reports a data breach, and you dutifully change your passwords, ask for a new credit card and hope your information doesn’t end up for sale on the dark web. But the hack that last week engulfed Marriott — and 500 million of its customers — has added a new step: Your passport might be at risk, too. Whether those customers should go get a new passport is perhaps the most complicated consumer question hanging out there in the wake of the news that millions of Starwood Hotels customers had their data stolen in a breach that began as early as 2014. Brands like Westin, Sheraton, Aloft and W are affected, but not Marriott brands that predate the company’s acquisition of Starwood in 2016. Besides passport information, the thieves took names, addresses, dates of birth, and credit or debit card numbers, though it’s possible that they did not get access to every bit of information for each person in the company database.Given how often bank card fraud occurs, Starwood customers may have obtained a new number in the past few years, anyway. But a subset of Starwood customers — those who traveled abroad and had to turn over their passport numbers at the check-in desk — face a question that few breach victims have faced before: What is the likelihood that someone might use that number to acquire a new passport and use it for no good?[After almost two months of picket lines, Marriott workers have agreed to a settlement.]The State Department says there isn’t much of a chance. The World Privacy Forum and the Identity Theft Resource Center say there is — with a mild qualification. If you’re among the Starwood customers who had to hand over passport information, your decision will hang on your taste for the very long odds of very bad people doing horrible things with a passport they acquired in your name.The thieves — the hackers have not been identified, but the stolen information has not turned up on the dark web, which experts said suggested the work of a state actor — were able to access passport numbers because local or national rules sometimes require hotels to collect them. Depending on where you go in the world, officials in the place you are visiting may require your hotel to examine your passport and perhaps transmit passport information to local authorities.It is unclear how long Marriott had held on to the information and if it held it longer than it had to. A spokeswoman said the company was not certain about these details yet.A Hilton spokesman said that when its hotels are required to gather passport information, they often upload it via third-party software to the relevant authorities. The length of time such information is retained depends on the location of the hotel. A Hyatt spokeswoman said that it collects the minimum amount of personal information necessary to provide services that guests say they want or to comply with local rules.It is also not clear how many former Starwood customers have a decision to make about their passports. A Marriott spokeswoman would only say that it believed that the number would be a “very small subset” of the larger group but that it did not have a precise number just yet. But even a small subset of 500 million can be a very big number: If two-tenths of a percent of customers are affected, that would be one million people.The State Department does not believe those people need new passports. The logic goes like this: Nobody can access your travel records using a passport number, nor can anyone travel in your name simply by presenting those digits. If the thieves try to obtain a replacement in your name, they’ll run into difficulty: Unable to present a lost or expired passport, they would need a sheaf of other documents to prove that they are you.But that’s where the danger lies, said Pam Dixon, executive director of the World Privacy Forum. Sophisticated thieves can clear those hurdles, she said. “The Marriott breach is risky precisely because they had the passport number plus all of the demographic information,” she said of the thieves. She worried in particular about an emerging form of fraud called “morphing” — in which determined thieves create fake supporting documents and then try to obtain a passport in your name. Part of the process involves creating an image by merging a photo of you that they find online with a photo of a thief — similar to the “deepfake” videos that can already be found on the internet. Ms. Dixon said she would replace her passport once she finished a pending trip abroad. Eva Velasquez, president of the Identity Theft Resource Center, said that she would do the same if she received notification from Marriott indicating that thieves retrieved useful information like her address and date of birth in addition to her passport number. (Marriott is just beginning the process of informing customers if their data is on the loose.)To be clear: Thieves probably won’t be making a few million passports. For any one person to become a victim, the thieves would need to be in the business of faking identities in the first place. That may not be their endgame at all. Then, they’d have to pick on your data and be successful in getting a passport in your name. Then, they’d have to choose to use it.The odds of all that happening are low. In the world of payment cards — where fraud is not nearly as complicated — it’s still a small portion of customers that have to deal with it. A Visa spokeswoman said that as its algorithms improved and companies became more sophisticated, it has seen fraud rates on at-risk card accounts falling below 5 percent.That won’t keep some people from wanting to do anything they can to avoid even rock-bottom odds of, say, landing in jail when they try to enter another country someday. So they’ll get a new passport, which comes with a new passport number.For now, Marriott doesn’t want to pay for that peace of mind. Instead, it’s setting up a process to work with guests who may one day experience passport fraud that they believe was a result of this breach. Then and only then will it reimburse people for the costs involved with getting a new passport. On Sunday, Senator Chuck Schumer, Democrat of New York, called on the company to reimburse people who choose to obtain new passports.Marriott is offering customers free enrollment in a service called Web Watcher from the security company Kroll, which scans the dark web for information that thieves may be trying to sell. You can give the service your passport number and ask it to watch out for those figures out there in the blackness — but the membership expires after a year.But breach anxiety can be forever, or at least 10 years: the standard renewal period for adults’ passports.So why can’t a company, just once, say something like the following? “We’re sorry. And we’re going to protect you for as long as you feel like you need protecting.”Stacy Cowley contributed reporting. Ron Lieber is the Your Money columnist and author of “The Opposite of Spoiled.” He previously helped develop the personal finance web site FiLife and wrote for The Wall Street Journal, Fast Company and Fortune.  @ronlieber • Facebook 

Supported byThe system’s vulnerabilities are real, but please do not stay home.By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.Will November’s election be hacked? A quick sampling of news stories over the past couple of years offers little comfort. In the months before the 2016 presidential election, Russian hackers tried to infiltrate voting systems in dozens of states. They succeeded in at least one, gaining access to tens of thousands of voter-registration records in Illinois.In April, the nation’s top voting machine manufacturer told Senator Ron Wyden of Oregon that it had installed remote-access software on election-management systems that it sold from 2000 to 2006. Senator Wyden called it “the worst decision for security short of leaving ballot boxes on a Moscow street corner.”At a hacking convention last summer, an 11-year-old boy who had been coached on finding the vulnerabilities in a mock-up of Florida’s state election website broke into the fake site and altered the vote totals recorded there. It took him less than 10 minutes.All along, the nation’s top intelligence and law enforcement officials have been sounding the alarm, warning that Russia is engaged in a “24/7, 365-days-a-year” effort to disrupt the upcoming midterm elections and imploring Congress and the White House to take more decisive action.President Trump may not believe that the risk is real, but the American people do. An overwhelming majority say they are concerned about election security, and more than 60 percent say the Trump administration should be doing more to protect the vote from foreign interference. Numbers like these suggest that whether or not hackers manage to gain access to voting systems, they have already achieved their main goal, which is to sow pervasive doubt over the integrity of American elections. Whoever wins, this lack of confidence is as damaging to the nation’s democracy as it is to its national security. And it drives down turnout at the polls, as voters who are already skeptical of the political process begin to believe not just that their vote won’t count, but that it literally won’t be counted.Meanwhile, the Russians show no signs of slowing their efforts to disrupt American elections through disinformation campaigns. On Friday, the Justice Department charged a Russian woman working for a close ally of President Vladimir Putin with participating in a plot “to spread distrust toward candidates for U.S. political office and the U.S. political system.”What to make of it all?First, the bad news. America’s voting systems, like all large and complex computerized systems, are highly vulnerable to cyberattack — whether by altering or deleting voter-registration data, or even by changing vote counts. “The vast majority of technical infrastructure for our voting is absolutely, without doubt, woefully insecure,” said Matt Blaze, a University of Pennsylvania computer-science professor who studies voting machine security. Both of the primary methods by which Americans cast their ballots — optical-scan machines and touch-screen monitors — can be tampered with fairly easily.The handful of companies that design and make nearly all of America’s voting machines insist that their equipment is cordoned off from bad actors on the internet, but in fact there are multiple ways in for anyone who is motivated, persistent and willing to commit a federal crime.These manufacturers could choose to share information in order to help researchers and experts identify security weaknesses, but instead they have zealously guarded it as proprietary, even when the outcome of a presidential election has been at stake — as John Kerry found out when his 2004 presidential campaign attempted to look into voting irregularities in Ohio.Our reliance on these newer voting technologies is largely a result of the failures of older ones. In the weeks after the 2000 presidential election, the entire country sat on edge as Florida poll workers painstakingly examined butterfly ballots and hanging chads. Following that disaster, Congress passed the Help America Vote Act, which established a federal agency, the Election Assistance Commission, to serve as a resource and clearinghouse for state election officials. But the commission, which has been a political football since its creation, is perennially understaffed and underfunded. Most of the nearly $4 billion that it initially got from Congress was spent on new electronic machines that were designed without anticipation of the sort of coordinated cyberattacks America now faces. And these machines are now approaching the end of their useful life.Now for some good news. Elections officials have become acutely aware of these risks to America’s electoral security, especially after the wake-up call they got in 2016. In a rare example of bipartisanship, Republicans and Democrats are communicating with one another and with their counterparts around the country, sharing information and shoring up defenses where needed.Most encouraging, the key fixes are relatively simple, and everyone agrees on what they are.One, provide a paper trail for every vote. Hackers work most effectively in the dark, so they love voting machines that produce no paper verification. Currently, five states — Delaware, Georgia, Louisiana, New Jersey and South Carolina — run their elections entirely on paperless touch-screen machines. But all five states are considering a switch back to paper ballots in time for 2020. In this year’s midterms, 19 states and Washington, D.C., will use only paper ballots.Two, audit the vote. The best way to do this is known as a risk-limiting audit, which means comparing the digital tally to a manual count of a randomized sample of paper ballots. This type of audit can identify voting tabulation errors resulting from either malicious attacks or software failures.Three, give states more resources. After dragging its feet for years, Congress in March approved $380 million in grants to states for election security. A little more than a third of the money will be spent on enhancing cybersecurity. A little more than a quarter will go toward buying new voting equipment. The rest will be spent on improving voter-registration systems, running vote audits and communicating better with voters around election time.That money is good, but it’s far from enough. And while the states are spending it in the right ways, Congress could help even more by passing the Secure Elections Act, a bipartisan bill that appeared headed toward passage until it got hung up over the summer.What can voters do? For starters, take advantage of early voting if your state offers it. The sooner votes are in, the more time officials have to detect irregularities. “Every time someone votes early, they’re part of the fight against foreign interference,” said David Becker, who runs the Center for Election Innovation and Research.Most important, don’t stay home because you believe that cyberattacks will rig the results of the election. “It’s true that these systems are vulnerable,” said Mr. Blaze, the voting-security expert. “It’s also true that you should vote on Election Day. The worst outcome would be if people conclude that there’s no point in voting.”Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.An earlier version of this editorial mischaracterized the mock state-election website that young hackers were able to break into quickly. The site was a look-alike of the real site and was not protected in the same way. It was not a replica.

Supported byState of the ArtBy Farhad ManjooIn theory, Facebook’s announcement on Tuesday that it had discovered and shut down a wide-ranging Iranian misinformation campaign should make you feel better.The social network was slow to recognize such campaigns as threats before the 2016 presidential election, and it surely deserves some credit for what Mark Zuckerberg, its chief executive, described as the company’s shift from “reactive to proactive detection” of coordinated propaganda operations.But it was not just Iran, and not just Facebook.YouTube also said that it had removed content linked to the Iranian campaign. So did Twitter. And Facebook said that it had also removed pages stemming from a Russian propaganda operation that was unrelated to the Iranian campaign.And there’s more: Microsoft announced this week that it had discovered a Russian hacking campaign aimed at conservative think tanks in the United States. And on Wednesday there was news that hackers had this week tried to penetrate the Democratic National Committee’s voter database.All that in three days. (And Facebook took down another influence campaign last month that was of uncertain origin, but might have been operated by Russians.)Feeling better yet? Yeah, me neither.These drip-by-drip revelations inspire something like the opposite of confidence. Find one cockroach in the kitchen and you might feel better for having caught the sucker. Find another, and then another, and pretty soon you start to wonder if you should burn your house down.And these revelations of mischief underscore the novelty of the threats we are dealing with — and how unprepared we might be to handle them.Some of these disclosures are about actual criminal activity. But others, like the Iranian campaign, describe a more fuzzy kind of misbehavior, one that is not obviously illegal, and whose tactics amount to something that lots of people do everyday: Lying on the internet.Given the gray area some of these activities occupy, figuring out what to make of each revelation — how to assess its potential impact and our collective capacity to respond to it — is going to be the next great task of digital society. And the task is far bigger than any of us realize now.“The work you see now from Facebook, Microsoft and others to be more proactive is a trend that is positive — it’s part of the solution, and I would want to see that trend continue,” said Graham Brookie, director of the Digital Forensic Research Lab at the Atlantic Council, a think tank that has been working with Facebook on election-security issues.But Mr. Brookie added: “Is this a solution? No, definitely not.”A solution, he said, would involve a society-wide reckoning with the problem of the vulnerabilities that the internet has uncovered in democratic society. A solution would involve the federal government taking the lead in such an effort, which is not really happening at the moment. A solution would also involve citizens becoming far more vigilant about what they see online, how they respond to it, and the effect it has on their political lives.And even with all that, we may not really get an actual solution. Instead, the best we might hope for is something like an ongoing cat-and-mouse game between good and bad actors online: a fight that never ends, but whose damage we can at least hope to reduce.That’s the long game. The short game is rather more depressing.Consider the most pressing question: How confident should you be that the coming midterm elections will be safe from hacking and propaganda operations online? The most likely answer: Nobody knows for sure, but probably not very confident.Facebook and other tech companies are stepping up their efforts to police their sites before the midterms. But some of the threats they have spotted so far have little to do with the election. The Iranian operation, for example, has been going on for years, and to judge by some of the content posted by these Facebook pages, was not aimed squarely at American elections, but instead American policy.In a call with reporters on Tuesday, Mr. Zuckerberg argued that Facebook has been making progress on keeping elections safe, having learned from several races around the world since 2016.“There was the French election, the German election, the Alabama special election, the Mexican election — and in each of these elections, our systems have been able to find a lot of fake accounts that were attempting potentially to do bad things on the system,” he said.Each time the company finds something, Mr. Zuckerberg added, “We get better at identifying this kind of activity up front and putting barriers in place to those who would try to abuse these systems.”His words are somewhat reassuring, but only in that they feel like the bare minimum that a company like Facebook should do.Alex Stamos, who until recently was Facebook’s chief security officer, has a dimmer view.In an article published on Wednesday on Lawfare, a news site that covers national security, Mr. Stamos wrote that the string of attacks revealed by Facebook, Microsoft and others were evidence that “America’s adversaries believe that it is still both safe and effective to attack U.S. democracy using American technologies and the freedoms we cherish.”The government’s failure to address these threats have left the United States “unprepared to protect the 2018 elections,” Mr. Stamos said. He outlined a set of legislative, regulatory and law enforcement steps Americans might take to secure their digital house.If we move fast, he said, we might be able to salvage 2020.Email: farhad.manjoo@nytimes.com; Twitter: @fmanjoo.Interested in All Things Tech?  Get the Bits newsletter delivered to your inbox weekly for the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.

Supported bySurfacingAt Defcon, one of the world’s largest hacking conferences, new pressures are reshaping the community’s attitudes toward privacy and anonymity.By Stephen HiltnerLAS VEGAS — Ask any hacker who’s been around long enough, and there’s a good chance you’ll hear an archetypal story, tinged with regret, about the first time his or her real identity was publicly disclosed.After enjoying years of online anonymity, the hacker known as Grifter was unmasked by a less-than-scrupulous spouse. “Hey, Neil!” his wife called out at him, absent-mindedly, from across a crowded room, while accompanying him (for the very first time) at a hacking conference. “My beautiful wife, she outed me in front of the entire hacker community,” he said with a laugh.Dead Addict’s version of the story involves an employer who pushed him to apply for a patent — for which he was required to provide his full legal name. “The people who later doxxed me,” he said, using a term for publishing private information about someone, usually with malicious intent, “pointed to that patent.”Nico Sell managed to stay “ungoogleable,” she said, until around 2012, when, acting as chief executive of a secure-messaging company, Wickr, she felt she needed to become more of a public figure — if reluctantly. “My co-founders and I, we all drew straws,” she said, “and that was that.”I met Grifter, whose real name is Neil Wyler; Dead Addict, who, citing privacy concerns, spoke with me on the condition that I not share his real name; Nico Sell, which, while undeniably the name she uses publicly, may or may not be her legal name; and dozens of other self-described hackers in August at Defcon, an annual hacking convention — one of the world’s largest — held in Las Vegas.A lion’s share of the media attention devoted to hacking is often directed at deeply anonymous (and nefarious) hackers like Guccifer 2.0, a shadowy online avatar — alleged to have been controlled by Russian military intelligence officers — that revealed documents stolen from the Democratic National Committee in 2016. And, to be sure, a number of Defcon attendees, citing various concerns about privacy, still protect their identities. Many conceal their real names, instead using only pseudonyms or hacker aliases. Some wear fake beards, masks or other colorful disguises.But new pressures, especially for those who attend Defcon, seem to be reshaping the community’s attitudes toward privacy and anonymity. Many longtime hackers, like Ms. Sell and Mr. Wyler, have been drawn into the open by corporate demands, or have traded their anonymity for public roles as high-level cybersecurity experts. Others alluded to the ways in which a widespread professionalization and gamification of the hacking world — as evidenced by so-called bug bounty programs offered by companies like Facebook and Google, which pay (often handsomely) for hackers to hunt for and disclose cybersecurity gaps on their many platforms — have legitimized certain elements of the culture.“It’s probably fair to say that fewer and fewer people are hiding behind their handles,” said Melanie Ensign, a longtime Defcon attendee who works on security and privacy at Uber. “A lot of hackers who have been around for a while — they have families and mortgages now. At some point, you have to join the real world, and the real world does not run on anonymity.”“This is a profession for a lot of people now,” she added. “And you can’t fill out a W-9 with your hacker handle.”Defcon has grown exponentially since its founding in 1993, when Jeff Moss — or, as many of his hacker friends know him, The Dark Tangent, or simply D.T. — gathered about 100 of his hacker friends for a hastily assembled party. By contrast, this year’s convention, the 26th, drew some 27,000 attendees, including students, security researchers, government officials and children as young as 8.It’s difficult to characterize the conference without being reductive. One could describe all of its 28 constituent “villages” (including the Voting Machine Hacking Village, where attendees deconstructed and scrutinized the vulnerabilities of electronic voting machines, and the Lockpick Village, where visitors could tinker with locks and learn about hardware and physical security), offer a complete list of this year’s presentations (including one by Rob Joyce, a senior cybersecurity official at the National Security Agency), catalog its many contests and events (like the Tin Foil Hat Contest and Hacker Karaoke) and still not get at its essence.The ethos of Defcon is perhaps best embodied by a gentleman I encountered in a hallway toward the end of the conference. He was wearing an odd contraption on his back, with wires and antennas protruding from its frame and with a blinking black box at its center. An agribusiness giant, he said, had recently heralded the impenetrability of the security systems built into one of its new computing components. He had obtained a version of it — how, he wouldn’t say — and, having now subjected it to the ever-probing Defcon crowds, had disproved the company’s claims. “Turns out it’s not very secure after all,” he said with a grin, before vanishing around a corner.Mr. Moss, perhaps the epitome of a hacker who has jettisoned anonymity and entered the public sphere, has had an evolving relationship with aliases. Like many of his early online friends, he was interested in hacking and phone phreaking (the manipulation of telecommunications systems) — “stuff that wasn’t really legal,” he said. Aliases provided cover for such activity. And every once in a while, he explained — if a friend let slip your name, or if you outgrew a juvenile, silly alias — you’d have to burn your identity and come up with a new name.“In my case, I had a couple previous identities,” he said, “but when I changed to The Dark Tangent, I was making a clear break from my past. I’d learned how to manage identities; I’d learned how the scene worked.”He also remembers when everything changed. During the dot-com boom, many hackers transitioned to “real jobs,” he said, “and so they had to have real names, too.”“My address book doubled in size,” he said with a laugh. And in time, as Defcon’s popularity ballooned, his list of formal appointments grew, too: membership at the Council on Foreign Relations, a seat on President Obama’s Homeland Security Advisory Council.“The thing I worry about today,” he added, taking a more serious tone, “is that people don’t get do-overs.” Young people now have to contend with the real-name policy on Facebook, he said, along with the ever-hovering threats of facial-recognition software and aggregated data. “How are you going to learn to navigate in this world if you never get to make a mistake — and if every mistake you do make follows you forever?”Philippe Harewood, who is 30, represents a relatively new class of hackers. He is currently ranked second on Facebook’s public list of individuals who have responsibly disclosed security vulnerabilities for the site in 2018. And while he maintains an alias on Twitter (phwd), a vast majority of his hacking work is done under his real name — which is publicized on and by Facebook. He also maintains a blog (again, under his real name) where he analyzes and discusses his exploits.For Mr. Harewood, maintaining his alias is partly about creating a personal brand — a retro nod, in a sense, to the era when using a hacker handle was a more essential element of the trade. But it also has practical advantages. “People want to reach out all the time,” he said. “And I’m still not all that comfortable communicating with people on my Facebook profile, under my real name.”“In a way,” he said, “it just helps me filter my communications.”In the wake of the Cambridge Analytica scandal, Facebook expanded its existing bug bounty with a program that specifically targets data abuse. And just this week the company again widened the scope to help address vulnerabilities in third-party apps. Such efforts — coupled with the rise in recent years of companies like Bugcrowd and HackerOne, which mediate between hackers and companies interested in testing their online vulnerabilities — have created a broader marketplace for hackers interested in pursuing legitimate forms of compensation.Like Mr. Harewood, 11-year-old Emmett Brewer, who garnered national media attention at this year’s Defcon by hacking a mock-up of the Florida state election results website in 10 minutes, also alluded to the marketing appeal of his alias, p0wnyb0y.“I came up with it a couple years ago, when I first got included in a news article,” he said. “I think an alias helps you get more recognition — sort of like how The Dark Tangent has his.”“P0wnyb0y is shorter and catchier than my name,” he added. “And it just seems a lot cooler.”Emmett said his involvement with Defcon — he has attended for several years, accompanied by his father — has left him skeptical about the degree to which his peers share things online. “My friends put everything up on the internet,” he said, “but I’m more mindful.” Still, he said he wasn’t invested in keeping his real name separate from his alias. “I don’t see it as the end of the world” if people can easily link the two, he said. “But some other people take that stuff more seriously.”(About his hacking the simulated election results: “The goal was to modify with the candidates’ votes — to delete them or add new ones,” he said. “I changed everyone else’s votes to zero, added my name, then gave myself billions of votes.”)That’s not to say, though, that the younger generations of hackers are all comfortable operating so openly. Ms. Sell’s daughter, who spoke with me on the condition that I refer to her by her hacking handle, CyFi, was especially guarded about her identity.“When I was 9, I discovered a class of zero-day vulnerabilities,” said CyFi, who is now 17, referring to software bugs that developers are unaware of. She ultimately disclosed the bugs, she added, “but I didn’t want to risk being sued by all those companies — so hiding my identity was the best way to go.”As with Emmett, CyFi is wary of her generation’s penchant for oversharing online. “My friends have definitely been frustrated with my lack of social media,” she said. “But the less data there is about you out in the world, the less people can try to mess with you.”One of the most intriguing aspects of Defcon is the relationship between the hacker community and the attendees from the federal government, the complexities of which have ebbed and flowed over time. For many years, the tension resulted in a cat-and-mouse game called “Spot the Fed.”“In the early days, if a fed got spotted, it was pretty consequential,” Mr. Moss said. “Later on, they were outing each other,” he said with a laugh — because they wanted the T-shirt granted to both the fed and the person who outed them.Linton Wells II, a former principal deputy to the assistant secretary of defense for networks and information integration, began attending Defcon around 2003. He now volunteers as a “goon” — the term for the volunteers (roughly 450 this year) who help organize and run the conference.Mr. Wells said that governmental officials who attend Defcon fall into one of three categories. “One was the people who openly announced they were feds — either speakers who announced their affiliations, or there was a Meet the Fed panel,” he said. “There were others who wouldn’t deny it if you asked them, but who didn’t go out of their way to advertise it. And then there were those who were either officially or unofficially undercover.”The relationship hasn’t always been contentious, he added, noting that, in 2012, Keith Alexander, who was then director of the N.S.A., “came out here and spoke in a T-shirt and bluejeans.” Less than a year later, though, after the Edward Snowden leak, things soured. “For the next couple years,” Mr. Wells said, “the feds were — well, if not uninvited, then at least tacitly not particularly welcome.”Joe Grand, who for many years operated under his alias, Kingpin, understands the complexities of the relationship as well as anyone. Twenty years ago, in May 1998, Mr. Grand was one of seven computer hackers who testified before a congressional panel that included Senators John Glenn, Joseph Lieberman and Fred Thompson. The hackers, members of a collective called L0pht (pronounced “loft”), had recently boasted that they could shut down the internet in 30 minutes, and lawmakers had taken notice.“Due to the sensitivity of the work done at the L0pht,” Senator Thompson explained in his opening remarks — haltingly, as if for effect — “they’ll be using their hacker names of Mudge, Weld, Brian Oblivion, Kingpin, Space Rogue, Tan and Stefan.” Chuckles echoed through the room. Until then, staff members had told the L0pht hackers, the only witnesses to testify while using aliases had been members of the witness protection program. “I hope my grandkids don’t ask me who my witnesses were today,” Senator Thompson added, to another chorus of laughter.“It probably helped their agenda — by having these kids show up with fake names,” said Mr. Grand, who sat for an interview at Defcon. “It probably made it that much more intriguing.”“But using our handles,” he added, “was our natural way of communicating. And having that protection, it felt good. We were putting ourselves out there as hackers communicating with the government — which, at the time, was not something you did.”As with many longtime hackers, Mr. Grand — who became widely known after appearing on a Discovery Channel show called “Prototype This!” — has grown more comfortable operating in the open. But he still appreciates the value of anonymity. “Hiding behind a fake name doesn’t mean you’re doing something malicious, and it doesn’t mean you’re a bad person,” he said. “It means you’re trying to protect your privacy.”“And, in this day and age, you need to,” he added, “because everywhere you look, your privacy is being stripped away.”Keren Elazari, a cybersecurity expert whose 2014 TED talk has been viewed millions of times, expressed a similar sentiment — that hackers, by fighting to maintain their anonymity, can help push back against the trends of eroding online privacy. But she also described what she calls a “maturing of the industry and the community.”“More and more people who started hacking in the ’90s are now becoming icons and thought leaders — and, most importantly, role models for the younger generations of hackers,” she said.To help guide younger generations, elder hackers can often still use nicknames, she added. “But sometimes it makes it more powerful when they can speak up in their own voices.”Stephen Hiltner is a reporter and photographer for the Surfacing column. A graduate of the University of Oxford and the University of Virginia, he joined The Times as a staff editor in 2016 after editing for six years at The Paris Review.  @sahiltner • Facebook 

OpinionPolitical and technological disruption have fed off each other since the nation’s founding. Now they are dangerously out of whack.  CreditCreditAriel DavisSupported byBy Jill LeporeMs. Lepore is a historian at Harvard and a staff writer at The New Yorker.Every government is a machine, and every machine has its tinkerers — and its jams. From the start, machines have driven American democracy and, just as often, crippled it. The printing press, the telegraph, the radio, the television, the mainframe, cable TV, the internet: Each had wild-eyed boosters who promised that a machine could hold the republic together, or make it more efficient, or repair the damage caused by the last machine. Each time, this assertion would be both right and terribly wrong. But lately, it’s mainly wrong, chiefly because the rules that prevail on the internet were devised by people who fundamentally don’t believe in government.The Constitution itself was understood by its framers as a machine, a precisely constructed instrument whose measures — its separation of powers, its checks and balances — were mechanical devices, as intricate as the gears of a clock, designed to thwart tyrants, mobs and demagogues, and to prevent the forming of factions. Once those factions began to appear, it became clear that other machines would be needed to establish stable parties. “The engine is the press,” Thomas Jefferson, an inveterate inventor, wrote in 1799.The United States was founded as a political experiment; it seemed natural that it should advance and grow through technological experiment. Different technologies have offered different fixes. Equality was the promise of the penny press, newspapers so cheap that anyone could afford them. The New York Sun was first published in 1833. “It shines for all” was its common-man motto. Union was the promise of the telegraph. “The greatest revolution of modern times, and indeed of all time, for the amelioration of society, has been effected by the magnetic telegraph,” The Sun announced, proclaiming “the annihilation of space.”Time was being annihilated too. As The New York Herald pointed out, the telegraph appeared to make it possible for “the whole nation” to have “the same idea at the same moment.” Frederick Douglass was convinced that the great machines of the age were ushering in an era of worldwide political revolution. “Thanks to steam navigation and electric wires,” he wrote, “a revolution cannot be confined to the place or the people where it may commence but flashes with lightning speed from heart to heart.” Henry David Thoreau raised an eyebrow: “We are in great haste to construct a magnetic telegraph from Maine to Texas; but Maine and Texas, it may be, have nothing important to communicate.”Thoreau was as alone in his skepticism as he was in his cabin. “Doubt has been entertained by many patriotic minds how far the rapid, full and thorough intercommunication of thought and intelligence, so necessary to the people living under a common representative republic, could be expected to take place throughout such immense bounds,” a House member said in 1845, but “that doubt can no longer exist.” Less than 20 years later, a nation tied together by 50,000 miles of wire, 1,400 stations and 10,000 telegraph operators fell into civil war.Even that savage war didn’t diminish Americans’ faith that technology could solve the problem of political division. In the 1920s, Herbert Hoover, as secretary of commerce, rightly anticipated that radio, the nation’s next great mechanical experiment, would make it possible for political candidates and officeholders to speak to voters without the bother and expense of traveling to meet them. NBC began radio broadcasting in 1926, CBS in 1928. By the end of the decade, nearly every household would have a wireless. Hoover promised that radio would make Americans “literally one people.”That radio fulfilled this promise for as long as it did is the result of decisions made by Mr. Hoover, a Republican who believed that the government had a role to play in overseeing the airwaves by issuing licenses for frequencies to broadcasting companies and regulating their use. “The ether is a public medium,” he insisted, “and its use must be for the public benefit.” He pressed for passage of the Radio Act of 1927, one of the most consequential and underappreciated acts of Progressive reform — insisting that programmers had to answer to the public interest. That commitment was extended to television in 1949 when the Federal Communications Commission, the successor to the Federal Radio Commission, established the Fairness Doctrine, a standard for television news that required a “reasonably balanced presentation” of different political views.Radio, though, was also a tool of tyrants. Joseph Goebbels, Hitler’s minister of propaganda, had a device installed in his office that allowed him to pre-empt national programming. He also hoped to sow division in the United States, partly through a shortwave radio system, the ministry’s “long-range propaganda artillery.” It spread lies about a “Communist Jewish conspiracy” that sounded like news reports, which the newspapers at the time referred to as “fake news.”In 1938, Orson Welles tried to raise the alarm about fake news with his notorious radio broadcast of “War of the Worlds.” Fifteen minutes into the program, listeners began to call the station in terror, believing that the earth was really being invaded by Martians. A station supervisor asked Welles to halt the broadcast; Welles refused. Dorothy Thompson was grateful to him, writing in her column in The New York Herald-Tribune that Welles had “made a greater contribution to an understanding of Hitlerism, Mussolinism, Stalinism, anti-Semitism, and all the other terrorism of our times, more than will all the words about them that have been written.”After the war, computers that had been built by the military split the electorate into so many atoms. Univac, one of the first commercial computers, was completed in 1951 for the Census Bureau, to count and sort its data. The next year, CBS used the Univac on election night. “A Univac is a fabulous electronic machine, which we have borrowed to help us predict this election from the basis of early returns as they come in,” Charles Collingwood told his audience as the evening’s coverage began. Walter Cronkite read the early, East Coast returns; Edward R. Murrow provided the commentary. Around 9:30 p.m., when the Republican, Dwight Eisenhower, was ahead in the popular vote and the Democrat, Adlai E. Stevenson, was winning the electoral vote, Cronkite said, “And now to find out perhaps what this all means, at least in the electronic age, let’s turn to that electronic miracle, the electronic brain, Univac.”But when the camera turned to Collingwood, he could get no answer from Univac. Murrow ventured that perhaps the computer was cautious. At 10:30 p.m., Cronkite turned again to Collingwood. Univac was having “a little bit of trouble,” Collingwood said. Murrow called the election for Eisenhower. Fifteen minutes later, Univac made the same call. Cronkite smiled and said, “I might note that Univac is running a few moments behind Ed Murrow.” The next day, Murrow, speaking on CBS Radio, celebrated the triumph of man over machine: “We are in a measure released from the petty tyranny of those who assert that they can tell us what we think, what we believe, what we will do, what we hope and what we fear, without consulting us — all of us.”That release proved short-lived. By 1959, a team of Democratic strategists was developing a secret plan known as Project Macroscope. They wanted to build a machine that could predict voter responses to any conceivable issue or candidate, a Univac for politics. Newton Minow, an Adlai Stevenson campaign adviser who would soon become chairman of the F.C.C., wrote to the historian Arthur Schlesinger Jr., “My own opinion is that such a thing (a) cannot work, (b) is immoral, (c) should be declared illegal.” Project Macroscope went ahead anyway. We live, each minute of every day, within its clockwork, and under its giant, all-seeing eye.All of this history was forgotten or ignored by the people who wrote the rules of the internet and who peer out upon the world from their offices in Silicon Valley and boast of their disdain for the past. But the building of a new machinery of communications began even before the opening of the internet. In the 1980s, conservatives campaigned to end the Fairness Doctrine in favor of a public-interest-based rule for broadcasters, a market-based rule: If people liked it, broadcasters could broadcast it.In 1987, President Ronald Reagan finally succeeded in repealing the Fairness Doctrine — and he also vetoed a congressional effort to block the repeal. The repeal, which relieved licensed broadcasters of a public-interest obligation to represent opposing points of view, made possible a new kind of partisan talk radio. In 1987, there were some 240 talk radio stations in the country; by 1992, there were 900. Partisan cable television followed, as the repeal led also to the rise of MSNBC and Fox News in 1996.Meanwhile, a new generation of knowledge-worker-not-auto-worker Democrats abandoned the working class for the microchip. Known in the 1980s as Atari Democrats, they were soon reinvented as the New Democrats. “Thanks to the near-miraculous capabilities of microelectronics, we are vanquishing scarcity,” a New Democrat manifesto announced in 1995, damning “those who cannot and will not participate in the knowledge economy” as “losers.” The New Democrats’ technological utopianism blinded them to the consequences of abandoning public-interest-minded Progressive-era regulation, at a time when a co-founder of Wired, Louis Rossetto, a libertarian and former anarchist, was celebrating the arrival of a freewheeling New Media. In the magazine’s inaugural issue in 1993, Mr. Rossetto predicted that the internet would bring about “social changes so profound their only parallel is probably the discovery of fire.” The internet would create a new world order, except it wouldn’t be an order; it would be an open market, free of all government interference, a frontier, a Wild West — lawless and unaccountable.Wired began publishing the same year that the Newt Gingrich-affiliated Progress and Freedom Foundation was founded. Its key thinker was the irrepressible George Gilder, who in the 1970s had achieved celebrity as an anti-feminist and in the 1980s as a supply-sider. At a 1994 Progress and Freedom Foundation meeting in Aspen, Colo., Mr. Gilder, along with the futurists Alvin Toffler, Esther Dyson and George Keyworth, wrote a “Magna Carta for the Knowledge Age,” which called for “removing barriers to competition and massively deregulating the fast-growing telecommunications and computing industries.”The cyber Magna Carta served as the blueprint for the Telecommunications Act. The libertarians’ objective, which went much further than the repeal of the Fairness Doctrine, was to ensure that the internet would lie beyond the realm of government control. On Feb. 8, 1996, President Bill Clinton, New Democrat, signed the bill in the reading room of the Library of Congress, on paper, and then, electronically, with a digital pen, the first piece of legislation signed in cyberspace. The act deregulated the communications industry, lifting virtually all of its New Deal antimonopoly provisions, allowing for the subsequent consolidation of media companies and largely prohibiting regulation of the internet. Still, that the United States government would even presume to legislate the internet — even if only to promise not to regulate it — alarmed the libertarians.On the day Mr. Clinton signed the bill, John Perry Barlow, a bearded mystic who had written lyrics for the Grateful Dead and had helped found the Electronic Frontier Foundation, an ex-hippie who had become the darling of the Davos set, wrote a Declaration of the Independence of Cyberspace. “Governments of the industrial world, you weary giants of flesh and steel, I come from cyberspace, the new home of mind,” Mr. Barlow wrote, in a statement that he posted on the web, where it became one of the very first posts to spread, as was said, like a virus. “On behalf of the future, I ask you of the past to leave us alone,” he said. “Governments derive their just powers from the consent of the governed. You have neither solicited nor received ours. We did not invite you. You do not know us, nor do you know our world. Cyberspace does not lie within your borders.”In the spring of 2000, an article in Wired announced that the internet had already healed a divided America: “We are, as a nation, better educated, more tolerant, and more connected because of — not in spite of — the convergence of the internet and public life. Partisanship, religion, geography, race, gender, and other traditional political divisions are giving way to a new standard — wiredness — as an organizing principle for political and social attitudes.” Of all the dizzying technological boosterism in American history, from the penny press to the telegraph to the radio, no pronouncement was battier. In the years since, partisan divisions have become fully automated functions, those wires so many fetters. The machine is no longer precisely constructed, its every action no longer measured. The machine is fix upon fix, hack after hack, its safety mechanisms sawed off. It has no brake, no fail-safe, no checks, no balances. It clatters. It thunders. It crushes the Constitution in its gears. The smell of smoke wafts out of the engine room. The machine is on fire.Jill Lepore is a professor of American history at Harvard, a staff writer at The New Yorker and the author of “These Truths: A History of the United States,” from which parts of this essay are adapted.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 

Supported byTech We’re UsingSheera Frenkel, who writes about cybersecurity for The Times, explains how she safeguards her devices, and why passwords remain a weak link for more people. By Sheera FrenkelHow do New York Times journalists use technology in their jobs and in their personal lives? Sheera Frenkel, a technology reporter in San Francisco, discussed the tech she’s using.Q. You cover cybersecurity and are extra careful about the security of your devices, apps and communications. What does your setup look like?A. I go into this job every day assuming that I’ve already been hacked. Being on the defensive keeps me vigilant about where I’ve left myself vulnerable in my day-to-day use of my phone, laptop and other tech. If an email would be super embarrassing to me if it leaked, maybe I would be better off not writing it? If a photo or video of my family would leave my loved ones feeling exposed if it was made public, maybe I shouldn’t keep it on my work laptop? I know that’s not an easy way for everyone to live, but I’ve covered enough breaches to know that nobody expects to be hacked, and when they are, the first thing they say is that they wish they hadn’t left themselves so vulnerable.My setup is to basically have two systems: a work laptop, on which I try to keep everything professional so that if and when it is hacked the damage will be minimal, and then a second laptop, which I use for anything personal and never connect to my work system.On both laptops, I use a password manager and multifactor authentication, which means that I have to verify who I am before I can get access to anything from Twitter to Gmail.I think those precautions are the bare minimum of what we should all be doing. And even with all that, I just assume I’m going to be hacked any day.What could be better about it?My phone is probably the one place where I can’t keep to my own standards of separating work from personal life. I tried to have two phones for a while but found it impossible to keep them straight.I also can’t help but keep a few photos of my daughter on my work laptop. And she’s currently my desktop photo. She’s just too darn cute not to stare at every day.What are the worst information security practices that you see many people doing? Passwords! One day tech companies will invent something better than passwords for security, but for now they are still the weakest link in the average person’s setup. If I could get people to stop two practices, they would be: Don’t use an obvious password like your name, your kid’s name or your birthday, and don’t use the same password for everything.Most tech companies do a terrible job of educating people about their security, because they tend to just flood the zone with information and make it seem that if you aren’t doing everything, you are a failure. Most people I talk to say they are intimidated by what they think they need to do to stay safe online — and end up doing nothing at all.I wish there were a five-step program for online safety. It would start with basic things, like how to come up with a strong password and use a password manager, and build from there.What tech product are you and your family currently obsessed with at home?We aren’t a big tech family! We try really hard to keep tech out of sight of our 1-year-old daughter. Kids are funny, though — even though we don’t watch TV around her, she loves to carry the remote around the house. My iPhone is her favorite teething toy, and she has learned how to get my laptop out of my backpack and slide it across the floor until she can hide it under the sofa.So I would say the one piece of tech that has been really useful is the tracking function — Find My iPhone or Find My Mac — on both devices. I’ve had to put the Tile location devices, which are wireless trackers that help us keep tabs on items, on everything else.Over the last year, I’ve also been given a lot of internet-connected toys designed for kids and their parents. All of them were either returned or left in their boxes when I saw how bad the security was.You’ve written about juggling motherhood and a full-time job. Are there any tech tools that have helped? When I was pregnant, I used every app I could get my hands on to keep track of what was happening. I knew I was giving away a lot of data, but I loved how apps like Glow compared my growing baby to a piece of fruit every few week so I could visualize how she went from being the size of a blueberry to, well, a really large squash.When she was born, I thought those same apps were going to give me a sense of community where I could ask questions and get advice. Instead, I discovered a bottomless pit of mommy-shaming and weird niche parenting cliques that seemed aimed at making women feel that whatever they were doing wasn’t enough.So I went old school and spoke to women I knew who seemed to be handling motherhood and their careers in a way I admired. When it came time to find a nanny, I spoke to people I trusted and interviewed nannies in person until I met someone who made my daughter smile and seemed to fit into our family dynamic. There are plenty of apps for nannies and babysitters, but it wasn’t the sort of thing I wanted a crowd-aggregated score for.I’m sure the day will come when we have wonderful fuzzy robots that nurse babies for us and act as perfect nannies. But for now, I’ve found that good friends and family who are willing to drop everything to come over and help are really the most important thing.Oh, and an Amazon Prime membership.Sheera Frenkel covers cybersecurity from San Francisco. Previously, she spent over a decade in the Middle East as a foreign correspondent, reporting for BuzzFeed, NPR, The Times of London and McClatchy Newspapers.  @sheeraf 

Supported byBy Mike Isaac and Kate CongerSAN FRANCISCO — When Mark Zuckerberg introduced an online tool called Facebook Connect in 2008, he hailed it as a kind of digital passport to the rest of the internet. In just a few clicks, users would be able to log in to other apps and sites with their Facebook passwords.The tool was adopted by thousands of other firms, from mom-and-pop publishing companies to high-profile tech outfits like Airbnb and Uber.Now those outfits could have been exposed to the consequences of an attack on Facebook’s computer systems. On Friday, the company said the account entry keys of at least 50 million Facebook users had been stolen in the largest hack in the company’s 14-year history.But the impact could be significantly bigger since those stolen credentials could have been used to gain access to so many other sites. Companies that allow customers to log in with Facebook Connect are scrambling to figure out whether their own user accounts have been compromised.The hack and its fallout underscore the lengths to which Facebook has cemented itself as the identity of the internet, and what happens when the security systems of one company — trusted by so many — fail.“Just the sheer fact that this exists will magnify the scale of any hack,” said Jason Polakis, an assistant professor of computer science at the University of Illinois at Chicago.In Europe, where tough new data privacy regulations went into effect in May, the authorities are preparing an investigation of the Facebook breach. Ireland’s Data Protection Commission, which is responsible for overseeing Facebook in the region, said it was gathering information and establishing the scope of its inquiry.Tinder, the dating app, has found no evidence that accounts have been breached, based on the “limited information Facebook has provided,” Justine Sacco, a spokeswoman for Tinder and its parent company, the Match Group, said in a statement. Tinder, as well as other Match Group apps, rely on Facebook Connect as a method of logging in.Ms. Sacco added that Facebook could do more to help by providing a specific list of users hit by the attack.Over the past decade, Facebook has sold outside companies on Facebook Connect with a simple proposition: Connect to our platform, and we’ll make it faster and easier for people to use your apps.The Connect tool was about achieving ubiquity. Users would be more apt to sign up for new apps and sites if doing so was easier, Facebook argued. It also brought an added measure of security, since users wouldn’t need to create and remember new passwords every time they signed up for a new app.But in July 2017, that measure of security fell short. By exploiting three software bugs, attackers forged “access tokens,” digital keys used to gain entry to a user’s account. From there, the hackers were able to do anything users could do on their own Facebook accounts, including logging in to third-party apps.In a blog post on Tuesday evening, Facebook said a continuing investigation of the close to 50 million accounts that were compromised “has so far found no evidence that the attackers accessed any apps using Facebook Login.”But there are still questions about an additional 40 million Facebook accounts that may have been affected. Facebook forced those 40 million users to log out and reauthenticate their credentials. It was unclear whether these accounts used Facebook to connect to outside apps.Citing “an abundance of caution,” Facebook said it was building a tool to help outside developers identify users who were affected in the hack by pinpointing potentially compromised accounts on their services.In a conference call with reporters on Friday, Facebook said it had not assessed the scope of the breach, nor did the company discover who was responsible for the attack.The Facebook breach is reminiscent of a catastrophic attack on Yahoo that was disclosed in 2016. Yahoo said attackers had gotten access to the company’s code and used it to forge 32 million access tokens like those stolen from Facebook.Hackers often target large databases of credentials, which can provide access to other accounts if users created the same password for multiple sites or have logged in to third-party accounts with their Facebook account.Since Friday, Facebook has held calls with developers at other companies to explain steps they can take to assess the damage at their own organizations.The security team at Uber, the ride-hailing giant, is logging some users out of their accounts to be cautious, said Melanie Ensign, a spokeswoman for Uber. It is asking them to log back in — a preventive measure that would invalidate older, stolen access tokens.Uber has reviewed its login data from the past year and hasn’t found any indications that Facebook credentials were used improperly.“But we still have to go through the investigation,” Ms. Ensign said. “For those that are most at risk, we have logged them out, so they’ll have to log back in to the account.”Facebook faces fallout from regulators both at home and abroad. On Friday, Senators Mark Warner of Virginia and Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut, both Democrats, used the occasion to renew their calls for legislation reining in large tech companies.The European Union’s probe will be an early test of its new data-protection law, the General Data Protection Regulation. The law allows Facebook to be fined up to 4 percent of its global revenue, though many consider such an outcome unlikely.“G.D.P.R. was designed to address the big tech giants, who are enormous, have huge resources and do very complicated things with personal data,” said James Castro-Edwards, the head of the data-protection practice at the London law firm Wedlake Bell. “This is the sort of battle that G.D.P.R. was drafted to be used in.”As Facebook’s power has grown, some outside companies have become wary of relying on it too much.While Tinder originally relied exclusively on the Facebook login for several years, the dating company last year introduced a way for people to create new accounts without using Facebook. Since then, fewer than 25 percent of new users sign up for Tinder using Facebook Connect.Similarly, Netflix stopped allowing users to connect using their Facebook accounts three years ago, and new customers must create user names and passwords when they sign up.But for the thousands of other companies that rely on Facebook to serve customers, it is unclear whether or not they will know the extent of the damage.“So many websites support Facebook login, and it was vulnerable for so long that it’s hard to give an idea of the scope of this attack,” Mr. Polakis said.Follow Mike Isaac and Kate Conger on Twitter: @MikeIsaac and @kateconger.Adam Satariano contributed reporting from London.

Supported byBy Charlie Savage, Adam Goldman and Eileen SullivanWASHINGTON — The WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange was arrested on Thursday in London to face a charge in the United States of conspiring to hack into a Pentagon computer network in 2010, bringing to an abrupt end a seven-year saga in which he had holed up in Ecuador’s embassy in Britain to avoid capture.The Ecuadorean government suspended the citizenship it had granted Mr. Assange and evicted him on Thursday, clearing the way for his arrest. His hosts had displayed growing impatience, listing grievances including recent WikiLeaks releases they said interfered with other states’ internal affairs and personal discourtesies, like the failure of Mr. Assange to clean the bathroom and look after his cat.A bedraggled and shackled Mr. Assange, 47, was dragged out of the embassy. At a court hearing, a judge swiftly found him guilty of jumping bail, and he was detained partly in connection with an American extradition warrant. Mr. Assange indicated that he would fight extradition, and legal experts said that process could take years. He is likely to argue that the case is politically motivated rather than driven by legitimate legal concerns.Mr. Assange’s arrest brought to a head long-simmering tensions that have raised profound First Amendment press freedom issues. Since Mr. Assange began publishing archives of secret American military and diplomatic documents in 2010 — provided by the former Army intelligence analyst Chelsea Manning — senior officials in two administrations had weighed whether to try to put him out of business by charging him with a crime. Ms. Manning was convicted at a court-martial trial in 2013 of leaking the documents.The Obama administration had explored whether to bring charges against Mr. Assange but decided not to, in part because of fears of creating a precedent that could chill traditional journalism. But in November, an accidental court filing appeared to disclose that the Trump administration had secretly charged him with some unspecified offense.The indictment unsealed Thursday, however, revealed that prosecutors in Northern Virginia had not charged Mr. Assange under the Espionage Act for publishing government secrets. Instead, they charged him with conspiring to commit unlawful computer intrusion based on his alleged agreement to try to help Ms. Manning break an encoded portion of passcode that would have permitted her to log on to a classified military network under another user’s identity.Because traditional journalistic activity does not extend to helping a source break a code to gain illicit access to a classified network, the charge appeared to be an attempt by prosecutors to sidestep the potential First Amendment minefield of treating the act of publishing information as a crime. Nevertheless, journalists should still be worried, said Barry Pollack, a lawyer for Mr. Assange.“While the indictment against Julian Assange disclosed today charges a conspiracy to commit computer crimes, the factual allegations against Mr. Assange boil down to encouraging a source to provide him information and taking efforts to protect the identity of that source,” Mr. Pollack said. “Journalists around the world should be deeply troubled by these unprecedented criminal charges.”Spokesmen for the Justice Department’s National Security Division and for the United States attorney in the Eastern District of Virginia declined to comment.The indictment of Julian Assange, the founder of WikiLeaks, filed in federal District Court in Virginia. (PDF, 7 pages, 0.22 MB)Mr. Assange has been in the sights of the United States government since his organization began publishing Ms. Manning’s leaks in 2010, bringing to light many secrets — like revealing that more civilians had died in Iraq than official estimates showed, detailing the accusations against Guantánamo detainees and airing American diplomats’ unvarnished takes on what was happening around the world — vaulting WikiLeaks to fame. A grand jury in Virginia began investigating people with links to WikiLeaks.Most recently, Mr. Assange has been under attack for his organization’s release during the 2016 presidential campaign of thousands of Democratic emails stolen by Russian hackers. (Russian intelligence officers apparently adopted the guise of a hacker calling itself Guccifer 2.0 when providing the files to WikiLeaks.) But the conspiracy charge against Mr. Assange is not related to WikiLeaks’ role in Russia’s operations to sabotage the election.The internal government debate over whether to charge Mr. Assange continued under the Trump administration and was accelerated by Jeff Sessions, the attorney general at the time, according to former officials involved in the discussions. It centered on whether Mr. Assange was a journalist or whether at least some of his actions could be deemed crimes unrelated to journalism.A hacking offense cited in the indictment carries an eight-year statute of limitations, which may have played a role in spurring the Trump administration to decide whether to move forward: The unsealed court papers indicated that a grand jury returned the indictment on March 6, 2018 — almost eight years to the day that Mr. Assange is accused of agreeing to help Ms. Manning try to crack the password, court papers showed.The indictment says Mr. Assange made that agreement on March 8, 2010. Had they succeeded, prosecutors said, it would have helped Ms. Manning cover her tracks by making it harder for the government to later identify who had copied files. But Mr. Assange’s efforts evidently failed — he told Ms. Manning two days later, on March 10, that he had “no luck so far,” according to the court filing.Also on March 8, prosecutors said, Ms. Manning told Mr. Assange, “After this upload, that’s all I really have got left.” Mr. Assange replied, “Curious eyes never run dry in my experience.”That exchange came at a time when Ms. Manning had copied and sent to WikiLeaks archives of logs of significant events in the Iraq and Afghanistan wars and dossiers about Guantánamo Bay detainees, but she had not yet sent the group hundreds of thousands of diplomatic cables from American embassies around the world, the indictment said. Weeks later, she began copying and uploading the State Department messages to WikiLeaks, it said.The pair also tried to cover their tracks by removing user names from the disclosed information and deleting their chat logs, according to the indictment.During her court-martial, in which some of Mr. Assange’s efforts to help were also discussed, Ms. Manning took complete responsibility for her actions and said that Mr. Assange had not pushed her to take them.“No one associated with W.L.O.” — an abbreviation she used to refer to the WikiLeaks organization — “pressured me into sending any more information,” she said at the time. “I take full responsibility.”Ms. Manning was convicted and sentenced to 35 years in prison for leaking the files and served about seven — the longest of any convicted leaker in American history — before President Barack Obama commuted most of the remainder of her sentence shortly before leaving office in 2017.Ms. Manning is in jail again. A judge held her in civil contempt last month for refusing to testify before a grand jury about her interactions with WikiLeaks.If Mr. Assange is convicted on the conspiracy to hack offense alone, he could face up to five years in prison. The government could later seek to charge him with additional offenses, but because of extradition practices, any such superseding indictment would most likely need to come soon, before Britain formally decides whether to transfer custody of him.Until recently, Mr. Assange’s Ecuadorean citizenship, granted in 2017, presented a hurdle in President Lenín Moreno’s efforts to remove him from the embassy. Ecuador’s Constitution limits the government’s ability to turn over citizens to a foreign justice system, especially if they could face torture or the death penalty, which are outlawed in Ecuador.The country’s former foreign minister, María Fernanda Espinosa, originally granted Mr. Assange’s citizenship, citing a policy that allowed certain foreigners under “international protection” to be naturalized. She argued that Mr. Assange’s refuge at the embassy was a case that qualified.However, on Thursday, Ecuador’s current foreign minister, José Valencia, said Mr. Assange’s citizenship had been suspended because of irregularities, opening the door for him to be handed to the British authorities.Mr. Assange took refuge in the Ecuadorean Embassy in June 2012 to avoid extradition to Sweden, where he faced questions about sexual assault accusations, which he has denied. Sweden rescinded its arrest warrant for Mr. Assange in 2017, but he refused to leave the embassy.Under a previous president, Ecuador had offered Mr. Assange citizenship and open-ended refuge in its embassy. But its government soured on the relationship as the years kept passing, and it eventually began to impose limits on what Mr. Assange could say and do.The Ecuadorean government said last year that it had cut off Mr. Assange’s internet access, saying that he had violated an agreement to stop commenting on, or trying to influence, the politics of other countries. The government also imposed other restrictions, like limiting his visitors. He sued in October, claiming that it was violating his rights.On Thursday, Mr. Moreno, who became Ecuador’s president in 2017, said on Twitter that his country had decided to stop sheltering Mr. Assange after “his repeated violations to international conventions and daily-life protocols.”Reporting was contributed by Katie Benner from Washington; David D. Kirkpatrick and Richard Pérez-Peña from London; Nicholas Casey from New York; and Raphael Minder from Madrid.Follow Adam Goldman, Charlie Savage and Eileen Sullivan on Twitter: @adamgoldmanNYT, @charlie_savage and @esullivannyt.

Supported byWe can no longer leave online security to the market. By Bruce SchneierMr. Schneier is a fellow and lecturer at the Harvard Kennedy School.It's no secret that computers are insecure. Stories like the recent Facebook hack, the Equifax hack and the hacking of government agencies are remarkable for how unremarkable they really are. They might make headlines for a few days, but they're just the newsworthy tip of a very large iceberg. The risks are about to get worse, because computers are being embedded into physical devices and will affect lives, not just our data. Security is not a problem the market will solve. The government needs to step in and regulate this increasingly dangerous space.The primary reason computers are insecure is that most buyers aren’t willing to pay — in money, features, or time to market — for security to be built into the products and services they want. As a result, we are stuck with hackable internet protocols, computers that are riddled with vulnerabilities and networks that are easily penetrated. We have accepted this tenuous situation because, for a very long time, computer security has mostly been about data. Banking data stored by financial institutions might be important, but nobody dies when it’s stolen. Facebook account data might be important, but again, nobody dies when it’s stolen. Regardless of how bad these hacks are, it has historically been cheaper to accept the results than to fix the problems. But the nature of how we use computers is changing, and that comes with greater security risks. Many of today’s new computers are not just screens that we stare at, but objects in our world with which we interact. A refrigerator is now a computer that keeps things cold; a car is now a computer with four wheels and an engine. These computers sense us and our environment, and they affect us and our environment. They talk to each other over networks, they are autonomous, and they have physical agency. They drive our cars, pilot our planes, and run our power plants. They control traffic, administer drugs into our bodies, and dispatch emergency services. These connected computers and the network that connects them — collectively known as “the internet of things” — affect the world in a direct physical manner. We've already seen hacks against robot vacuum cleaners, ransomware that shut down hospitals and denied care to patients, and malware that shut down cars and power plants. These attacks will become more common, and more catastrophic. Computers fail differently than most other machines: It's not just that they can be attacked remotely — they can be attacked all at once. It’s impossible to take an old refrigerator and infect it with a virus or recruit it into a denial-of-service botnet, and a car without an internet connection simply can’t be hacked remotely. But that computer with four wheels and an engine? It — along with all other cars of the same make and model — can be made to run off the road, all at the same time. As the threats increase, our longstanding assumptions about security no longer work. The practice of patching a security vulnerability is a good example of this. Traditionally, we respond to the never-ending stream of computer vulnerabilities by regularly patching our systems, applying updates that fix the insecurities. This fails in low-cost devices, whose manufacturers don’t have security teams to write the patches: if you want to update your DVR or webcam for security reasons, you have to throw your old one away and buy a new one. Patching also fails in more expensive devices, and can be quite dangerous. Do we want to allow vulnerable automobiles on the streets and highways during the weeks before a new security patch is written, tested, and distributed?Another failing assumption is the security of our supply chains. We've started to see political battles about government-placed vulnerabilities in computers and software from Russia and China. But supply chain security is about more than where the suspect company is located: we need to be concerned about where the chips are made, where the software is written, who the programmers are, and everything else. Last week, Bloomberg reported that China inserted eavesdropping chips into hardware made for American companies like Amazon and Apple. The tech companies all denied the accuracy of this report, which precisely illustrates the problem. Everyone involved in the production of a computer must be trusted, because any one of them can subvert the security. As everything becomes a computer and those computers become embedded in national-security applications, supply-chain corruption will be impossible to ignore. These are problems that the market will not fix. Buyers can't differentiate between secure and insecure products, so sellers prefer to spend their money on features that buyers can see. The complexity of the internet and of our supply chains make it difficult to trace a particular vulnerability to a corresponding harm. The courts have traditionally not held software manufacturers liable for vulnerabilities. And, for most companies, it has generally been good business to skimp on security, rather than sell a product that costs more, does less, and is on the market a year later.The solution is complicated, and it’s one I devoted my latest book to answering. There are technological challenges, but they’re not insurmountable — the policy issues are far more difficult. We must engage with the future of internet security as a policy issue. Doing so requires a multifaceted approach, one that requires government involvement at every step. First, we need standards to ensure that unsafe products don’t harm others. We need to accept that the internet is global and regulations are local, and design accordingly. These standards will include some prescriptive rules for minimal acceptable security. California just enacted an Internet of Things security law that prohibits default passwords. This is just one of many security holes that need to be closed, but it’s a good start.We also need our standards to be flexible and easy to adapt to the needs of various companies, organizations, and industries. The National Institute of Standards and Technology’s Cybersecurity Framework is an excellent example of this, because its recommendations can be tailored to suit the individual needs and risks of organizations. The Cybersecurity Framework — which contains guidance on how to identify, prevent, recover, and respond to security risks — is voluntary at this point, which means nobody follows it. Making it mandatory for critical industries would be a great first step. An appropriate next step would be to implement more specific standards for industries like automobiles, medical devices, consumer goods, and critical infrastructure.Second, we need regulatory agencies to penalize companies with bad security, and a robust liability regime. The Federal Trade Commission is starting to do this, but it can do much more. It needs to make the cost of insecurity greater than the cost of security, which means that fines have to be substantial. The European Union is leading the way in this regard: they’ve passed a comprehensive privacy law, and are now turning to security and safety. The United States can and should do the same. We need to ensure that companies are held accountable for their products and services, and that those affected by insecurity can recover damages. Traditionally, United States courts have declined to enforce liabilities for software vulnerabilities, and those affected by data breaches have been unable to prove specific harm. Here, we need statutory damages — harms spelled out in the law that don’t require any further proof.Finally, we need to make it an overarching policy that security takes precedence over everything else. The internet is used globally, by everyone, and any improvements we make to security will necessarily help those we might prefer remain insecure: criminals, terrorists, rival governments. Here, we have no choice. The security we gain from making our computers less vulnerable far outweighs any security we might gain from leaving insecurities that we can exploit.Regulation is inevitable. Our choice is no longer between government regulation and no government regulation, but between smart government regulation and ill-advised government regulation. Government regulation is not something to fear. Regulation doesn’t stifle innovation, and I suspect that well-written regulation will spur innovation by creating a market for security technologies. No industry has significantly improved the security or safety of its products without the government stepping in to help. Cars, airplanes, pharmaceuticals, consumer goods, food, medical devices, workplaces, restaurants, and, most recently, financial products — all needed government regulation in order to become safe and secure.Getting internet safety and security right will depend on people: people who are willing to take the time and expense to do the right things; people who are determined to put the best possible law and policy into place. The internet is constantly growing and evolving; we still have time for our security to adapt, but we need to act quickly, before the next disaster strikes. It’s time for the government to jump in and help. Not tomorrow, not next week, not next year, not when the next big technology company or government agency is hacked, but now. Bruce Schneier is a fellow and lecturer at the Harvard Kennedy School. His latest book is "Click Here to Kill Everyone: Security and Survival in a Hyper-connected World."Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion).

Supported byBy David E. Sanger and William J. BroadWASHINGTON — Authorized hackers were quickly able to seize control of weapons systems being acquired by the American military in a test of the Pentagon’s digital vulnerabilities, according to a new and blistering government review.The report by the Government Accountability Office concluded that many of the weapons, or the systems that control them, could be neutralized within hours. In many cases, the military teams developing or testing the systems were oblivious to the hacking.A public version of the study, published on Tuesday, deleted all names and descriptions of which systems were attacked so the report could be published without tipping off American adversaries about the vulnerabilities. Congress is receiving the classified version of the report, which specifies which among the $1.6 trillion in weapons systems that the Pentagon is acquiring from defense contractors were affected.But even the declassified review painted a terrifying picture of weaknesses in a range of emerging weapons, from new generations of missiles and aircraft to prototypes of new delivery systems for nuclear weapons.“In one case, the test team took control of the operators’ terminals,” the report said. “They could see, in real time, what the operators were seeing on their screens and could manipulate the system” — a technique reminiscent of what Russian hackers did to a Ukrainian power grid two years ago.The Government Accountability Office, the investigative arm of Congress, described “red team” hackers who were pitted against cyberdefenders at the Pentagon. The tested weapons were among a total of 86 weapons systems under development; many were penetrated either through easy-to-crack passwords, or because they had few protections against “insiders” working on elements of the programs.Sometimes the testing teams toyed with their Pentagon targets. One team “reported that they caused a pop-up message to appear on users’ terminals instructing them to insert two quarters to continue operating.”The searing assessment comes after years of warnings about the vulnerabilities of the military systems — some of which the Government Accountability Office said were ignored — and just as President Trump gives American commanders more flexibility to deploy cyberweapons without obtaining presidential approval.It also suggests that the United States is vulnerable to cyberattacks when it seeks to disable enemy systems.The New York Times reported last year that former President Barack Obama had ordered accelerated cyberattacks on North Korea’s missile systems starting in 2014 — around the time, the report said, that the Pentagon belatedly began waking up to the holes in its own systems.In recent years, the Pentagon has begun to install “intrusion alarms” to warn weapons operators of signs of attacks. But the Government Accountability Office suggested that those alarms were about as effective as car alarms going off on the streets of New York: an event so common that everyone assumed it was a false alarm.“Intrusion detection systems correctly identified test team activities,” the report said. But, it added, the system “was always ‘red’” and “warnings were so common that operators were desensitized to them.”The congressional auditors called their findings the first time they have examined vulnerabilities of major weapon systems that the federal government is acquiring.That issue has become more urgent over the past decades. Older weapons used by the Pentagon, some dating to before the Vietnam War, were minimally dependent on computers or networks, making them naturally resistant to hacking.As the report made clear — and as admirals and generals have been discussing for years — the move to update systems introduces new vulnerabilities.“Today’s weapon systems are heavily computerized, which opens more attack opportunities for adversaries,” the review said.It also found that the “increasingly computerized and networked nature” of the systems was not the only problem; so was the Defense Department’s “past failure to prioritize weapon systems cybersecurity.”Compounding the problem are the millions of lines of software that are buried in parts and subsystems, creating vulnerabilities that weapons designers and contractors often do not fully grasp.“Weapon systems have a wide variety of interfaces, some of which are not obvious, that could be used as pathways for adversaries to access the systems,” the study concluded.Similar warnings have been sounded since 2013, when the government’s Defense Science Board raised the potential that sophisticated adversaries, led by Russia and China, would use cyberweapons to neutralize weapons systems even before battle.In the five years since, the Pentagon has been reluctant to discuss the subject beyond vague generalities, insisting that any public airing of the issue would only invite attacks.Included in the Government Accountability Office’s survey of vulnerabilities were submarines, missiles, cargo rockets, radars, fighter jets, refueling tankers, aircraft carriers, destroyers, satellites, helicopters and electronic jammers.In interviews, office officials said the acquisition programs under review included two of the three major classes of nuclear-weapons delivery systems: the Columbia-class submarine and the replacement for the nation’s aging Minuteman missiles, known as the Ground Based Strategic Deterrent.Not part of the $1.6 trillion total was the B-21 bomber, a new generation of stealth jet that could drop nuclear weapons.Nuclear weapons themselves were not included in the report; they are mostly controlled by the Energy Department, which oversees their design and testing. But nuclear weapons have become a focus of increasing scrutiny, both inside and outside the defense establishment.Last month, the Nuclear Threat Initiative, a group that studies nuclear threats, published a detailed report about the risks that nuclear weapons systems could be subject to cyberattacks. It warned that such attacks “could have catastrophic consequences,” including the risk that weapons could be used in response to “false warnings or miscalculation.”“The world’s most lethal weapons are vulnerable to stealthy attacks from stealthy enemies — attacks that could have catastrophic consequences,” former Energy Secretary Ernest J. Moniz, former Senator Sam Nunn and former Defense Minister Des Browne of Britain wrote in that report.“Today, that fact remains the chilling reality,” wrote the three Cold War veterans. “Cyberthreats are expanding and evolving at a breathtaking rate, and governments are not keeping pace. It is essential that the U.S. government and all nuclear-armed states catch up with — indeed, get ahead of and stay ahead of — this threat.”David E. Sanger reported from Washington, and William J. Broad from New York.

Supported byBy Nicholas KristofOpinion ColumnistIf you’re worried about terrorism, here’s a bigger threat to lose sleep over: an all-out cyberattack.Suddenly, the electricity goes out at the office. Cellphone networks and the internet have also gone black, along with subways and trains. The roads are jammed because traffic lights aren’t working. Credit cards are now just worthless bits of plastic, and A.T.M.s are nothing but hunks of metal. Gas stations can’t pump gas.Banks have lost records of depositors’ accounts. Dam floodgates mysteriously open. Water and sewage treatment plants stop working.People can’t reach loved ones. Phone systems are down, so 911 is useless. Looters roam the streets. Food and water soon run out in the cities. And that’s just the first week.Security experts have nightmares like that. Countries like Russia and China have implanted malicious software in the American electrical grid, nuclear power plants and water systems to have the capacity to mount such attacks — and we have done the same to them. Indeed, the U.S. prepared an extensive plan, Nitro Zeus, to unplug Iran through cyberattacks, but in the end we never implemented it.These are some of the issues explored in an important — and deeply sobering — new book about cyberwarfare, “The Perfect Weapon,” by my Times colleague David Sanger. I’ve known Sanger since we joined our college newspaper together at the beginning of freshman year, and he has spent the decades since exploring the intersections of technology and international security — and trying to alert us to our vulnerabilities.The risks aren’t just of a cyber-Pearl Harbor but also of a full spectrum of attacks. The Russian hack of Democratic emails should have been a wake-up call. A senior F.B.I. official told Sanger: “These D.N.C. guys were like Bambi walking in the woods, surrounded by hunters. They had zero chance of surviving an attack. Zero.”Even after the attacks we didn’t learn, and much of the U.S. is still like Bambi. The Russian hack of the U.S. elections in 2016 should have us on our toes for 2018, but the Trump administration has done little to prepare to fight off new hacking.Sanger describes a Russian cyberattack on the Ukrainian electrical grid shortly before Christmas 2015. Operators of the grid were bewildered: Nothing they clicked on their computers had any effect, and cursors dashed across their screens to disconnect circuits and delete backup systems. Finally, the hackers disconnected the backup electrical system, so that the operators in the control room were literally in the dark.Hackers are increasingly brazen. When Russian hackers infiltrated State Department and White House computer systems in 2014, National Security Agency specialists tried to uproot them — and the hackers fought back. “It was basically hand-to-hand combat in a network,” Rick Ledgett, a senior N.S.A. official, told Sanger.Cyber is the “perfect weapon,” in Sanger’s formulation, because attackers typically get off scot-free.If North Korea had responded to the Sony Pictures movie “The Interview” by blowing up cinemas, it might have faced a strong response. Instead, it hacked into Sony’s system, destroyed computers and paralyzed the company. In both the Sony and Democratic Party attacks, the hackers enlisted the American news media to magnify the damage; we in the media were used, and we should reflect on that.Later, North Korean hackers pilfered $81 million from the Bangladesh Central Bank (they might have gotten away with almost $1 billion, but someone misspelled “foundation”). For all this, North Korea faced no significant punishment.Sanger writes that American officials debated whether to punish Vladimir Putin for his hacks by exposing his links to oligarchs, or even by making some of his money disappear. But Barack Obama balked, fearful of what Putin might do next, and Donald Trump has also dithered.Gen. Paul Nakasone, head of the U.S. Cyber Command, was asked in his confirmation hearings this year what our adversaries think will happen if they attack us in cyberspace. “They do not think much will happen,” he replied. “They don’t fear us.”As Sanger writes, “Deterrence is not working in the cyber realm.” Why wouldn’t Putin interfere in our 2018 midterms since we’re both vulnerable and not serious about responding?We need to establish a cost to cyberattacks and help establish norms for cyber — a Geneva Convention for hacking. The problem is that the U.S. also uses cyberwarfare (to destroy Iranian centrifuges and, apparently, North Korean missiles), and we don’t want to constrain ourselves.Meanwhile, we are becoming ever more vulnerable, partly because daily life is becoming more dependent on computers, and partly because cyber-offense is far ahead of cyber-defense. The U.S. started with a huge advantage, but Russia and China have nearly caught up, and Iran and North Korea don’t seem far behind.In the 1990s, we were too complacent about the risks of terrorism; it took the twin towers collapsing to galvanize us. In the world of cyberspace, we’re still too complacent: Let’s stop playing Bambi!Gail Collins is on book leave.I invite you to sign up for my free, twice-weekly email newsletter. Please also join me on Facebook and Google+, watch my YouTube videos and follow me on Twitter (@NickKristof).

Supported byBy Laura M. HolsonA Connecticut man was sentenced on Wednesday to eight months in prison for his part in a hacking scandal in which nude photographs of the actress Jennifer Lawrence and other celebrities were made public on the internet, according to the man’s lawyer.The man, George Garofano, 26, had pleaded guilty in April to gaining access to about 240 Apple iCloud accounts and stealing users’ private information. He was one of four hackers involved in a 2014 phishing scheme that tricked people into revealing their usernames and passwords. The other three hackers have been sentenced.Mr. Garofano’s lawyer, Richard Lynch, said that Judge Victor A. Bolden, who oversaw sentencing in the United States District Court in Bridgeport, Conn., gave his client a lighter sentence than prosecutors had requested. Prosecutors in the case had argued that Mr. Garofano should serve at least 10 to 16 months in prison, saying the hacking was a serious crime.Mr. Lynch said he and his team asked the judge for a more lenient sentence: five months in prison and another five months of home confinement. “The judge listened,” he said. But, Mr. Lynch added, “it was a difficult case because of the number of victims.”After Mr. Garofano serves his sentence, he will be subject to three years of supervised release.Mr. Garofano, who is from North Branford, Conn., breached not only the accounts of celebrities like Ms. Lawrence, Kate Upton and Kirsten Dunst, but also those of users who were not famous. Ms. Lawrence told Vanity Fair in 2014 that she was worried about how the release of the stolen photos would affect her career.“Just because I’m a public figure, just because I’m an actress, does not mean that I asked for this,” she told the magazine. She called the hacking a “sex crime.”“It’s disgusting,” she added. “The law needs to be changed, and we need to change.”A spokeswoman for Ms. Lawrence said on Thursday that the actress declined to comment on the sentencing news.Mr. Lynch said his client was apologetic. “When he gets behind a computer, he forgets what he does impacts other people,” he said.

Supported byLetterTo the Editor:Re “12 Russian Agents Indicted in Mueller Investigation” (news article, nytimes.com, July 13):The indictment of 12 Russian intelligence officers on charges of hacking our elections, combined with previous indictments of 14 Russian nationals for similar offenses, should lead President Trump to demand an apology from Vladimir Putin in their one-on-one meeting in Helsinki.Mr. Trump should also demand that Mr. Putin hand over these defendants for trial and, if refused, should announce sanctions. Mr. Trump’s failure to do so would provide evidence that he is himself compromised by Russian intelligence.Congress and state governments should wake up to the dangers of a repeat performance of meddling in the midterm elections. Hearings should be held to ask what American officials have done to harden our systems against the Russian threat. Social media companies such as Facebook and Twitter should take action as well to protect their customers and our citizens.Late-night comedians notwithstanding, this is no joke. The United States has been and remains under attack. We must defend ourselves.ERIC W. ORTS, PHILADELPHIAThe writer is a professor of legal studies and business ethics at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania.

Supported byBy Mike IsaacSAN FRANCISCO — Facebook said Friday that an attack on its computer systems that was announced two weeks ago had affected 30 million users, about 20 million fewer than it estimated earlier.But the personal information that was exposed was far more intimate than originally thought, adding to Facebook’s challenges as it investigates what was probably the most substantial breach of its network in the company’s 14-year history.Detailed information was stolen from the Facebook profiles of about 14 million of the 30 million users. The data was as specific as the last 15 people or things they had searched for on Facebook and the last 10 physical locations they had “checked into.”Other personal details were also exposed, like gender, religious affiliation, telephone number, email addresses and the types of computing devices used to reach Facebook.Users’ names and contact information like telephone numbers were stolen from an additional 15 million profiles, Facebook said. The security tokens of about one million other people were stolen, but hackers did not get their profile information, the company said.The hackers did not gain access to account passwords or credit card information, Facebook said.“We have been working around the clock to investigate the security issue we discovered and fixed two weeks ago so we can help people understand what information the attackers may have accessed,” Guy Rosen, vice president of product management, wrote in a blog post on Friday.While Facebook has cautioned that the attack was not as large as it had originally anticipated — it forced 90 million users to log out so the security of their profiles would reset — the details of what was stolen worried security experts. The data can be used for all sorts of schemes by sophisticated hackers.“Hackers have some sort of a goal,” said Oren J. Falkowitz, chief executive of the cybersecurity company Area 1 Security and a former National Security Agency official. “It’s not that their motivation is to attack Facebook, but to use Facebook as a lily pad to conduct other attacks.”An attacker may use that information to conduct sophisticated “phishing attacks,” a method used to get into financial accounts, health records or other important personal databases, Mr. Falkowitz said.“Once you’ve become a target, it never ends,” he said.The breach was disclosed at the worst possible time for Facebook, which is grappling with a series of crises that have shaken user trust in the world’s largest social network.Over the last year, Facebook has faced repeated criticism that it hasn’t been doing enough to protect the personal information of its more than two billion regular users.[Read more on how to delete Facebook and Instagram.]In March, Facebook was hit by revelations that Cambridge Analytica, a British consulting firm that had worked for the Trump campaign, had gained access to the private information of up to 87 million users.The company is also dealing with concerns that disinformation on its platforms has affected elections and has even led to deaths in several countries. On Thursday, Facebook disclosed that it had removed hundreds of accounts and pages used to spread disinformation in the United States. While Russian agents had used Facebook and other social media to incite conflict before the 2016 election, domestic sources of false or misleading posts have jumped into the fray, the company said.Disinformation has had dire results outside the United States. In Sri Lanka, Myanmar and other countries, hundreds of people have been killed, partly because of the rampant spread of misinformation across social networks and other internet sites.Former employees have also taken to criticizing Facebook. Brian Acton, a co-founder of the Facebook-owned smartphone application WhatsApp, has called for people to delete their Facebook accounts.The breach could affect users’ willingness to use Facebook products. On Monday, Facebook debuted Portal, the company’s first hardware device built from the ground up, for high-definition video calls. The product asks users to install a camera in their living rooms.Facebook first found hints of suspicious activity across its network in early September when security engineers noticed a flurry of activity around the “View As” feature, a way for users to check on what information other people can see about them. It was built to give users move control over their privacy.More than a week later, Facebook determined that the activity was an attack on its systems, focused on three interconnected vulnerabilities in the company’s software.Those flaws were compounded by a bug in Facebook’s video-uploading program for birthday celebrations, a software feature that was introduced in July 2017. The flaw allowed the attackers to steal so-called access tokens — digital keys that allow access to an account.Facebook fixed the bugs and alerted users on Sept. 28 that the accounts of about 50 million users had been compromised.In the days since, Facebook has scrambled to figure out how things went wrong, who could be responsible for the attack and what the attackers planned to do with the information.In a conference call with reporters on Friday, Mr. Rosen declined to answer who might be responsible for the attack or how the information could be used.Facebook engineers are working closely with the Federal Bureau of Investigation on the hack. F.B.I. officials have asked Facebook not to share details on the suspected identities of the attackers for fear of compromising the investigation.Follow Mike Isaac on Twitter: @MikeIsaac.

Supported byBy David E. SangerA new study of the malicious computer code used in a botched attack on a Saudi petrochemical plant concludes that much of the effort was coordinated from inside a state-owned Russian scientific institute, one of the most direct links between official Russian hackers and a hostile intrusion on a major piece of infrastructure.The report, issued by FireEye, a major cybersecurity company, identifies the Central Scientific Research Institute of Chemistry and Mechanics, a technical research institute in Moscow with ties to Russian governments reaching back before the 1917 Bolshevik revolution. But it leaves unanswered the question of why Moscow would target a Middle Eastern plant, even given Russia’s rivalry with Saudi Arabia in the petroleum marketplace.FireEye did not identify the plant that was attacked, because of restrictions placed on it by the customer who sought the company’s help in recovering from the attack.But The New York Times identified the facility in March as a Saudi plant, at a time that there was wide consensus that the attack must have been initiated by Iran, Saudi Arabia’s great rival for regional influence.It still may have been that Iran was behind the attack — but the new research suggests that, if it was, Iran had a lot of Russian help, and that when the malware needed to be fine-tuned, the Russian institute provided the expertise.The attack marked one of the scariest moments so far in cyberattacks on critical infrastructure. It was the first known attempt to manipulate an emergency-shutdown system, which is designed to avoid disaster and protect human lives.But something went wrong with the attack, and it actually prompted a full shutdown of the plant, which appeared to be accidental as the malware was loaded into the plant’s computers. No industrial accident occurred.Nonetheless, the episode has captivated the attention of experts, who concluded that had things gone according to plan, the next stage of the attack was most likely intended to trigger an industrial accident. If that had happened, the shutdown system would have been disabled.“We don’t know why this facility was targeted,” said John Hultquist, who oversaw the study at FireEye. “They may have just been testing things out, just experimenting.”It was unclear why the Russians would have targeted a Saudi plant, other than the obvious fact that the two countries compete as oil and petrochemical producers.“Sometimes it makes no geopolitical sense,” Mr. Hultquist said, noting that Russian and other hackers “operate all over the globe.”The report did not assert that the Russians initiated the attack on the petrochemical facility, nor did it conclude who initiated the action. But it traced much of the code, and activity to maintain and rewrite elements of the malware, to the Russian institute in Moscow. The institute had not been seen before as a major player in the development of cyberweapons.At a moment when there is acute attention to whether the Russian government is seeking to influence the 2018 midterm elections, the report is a reminder that the bulk of Russia’s cyberactivity has been in more traditional arenas: placing malware in facilities that are critical to keeping a nation’s infrastructure running. In March, the Trump administration accused the Russians of placing malware in American nuclear and conventional power plants, as well as in water systems.In the probing of the utility sector in the United States, the Russians were placing “implants,” or malware that could be activated at a later date. That is essentially what FireEye concluded was happening in the Saudi case, where the Russian institute was helping to update and improve the malware.The Russian government has consistently denied that it is placing malware in foreign systems, and has often called for treaties or norms of behavior to govern cyberspace. But the United States has viewed Russia’s calls as a cynical way to attempt to limit American cyberactivity, while sending out surrogates to conduct operations on Russia’s behalf.

Supported byBy David E. Sanger and Sheera FrenkelBOSTON — The Russian military intelligence unit that sought to influence the 2016 election appears to have a new target: conservative American think tanks that have broken with President Trump and are seeking continued sanctions against Moscow, exposing oligarchs or pressing for human rights.In a report scheduled for release on Tuesday, Microsoft Corporation said that it detected and seized websites that were created in recent weeks by hackers linked to the Russian unit formerly known as the G.R.U. The sites appeared meant to trick people into thinking they were clicking through links managed by the Hudson Institute and the International Republican Institute, but were secretly redirected to web pages created by the hackers to steal passwords and other credentials.Microsoft also found websites imitating the United States Senate, but not specific Senate offices or political campaigns.The shift to attacking conservative think tanks underscores the Russian intelligence agency’s goals: to disrupt any institutions challenging Moscow and President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia.The Hudson Institute has promoted programs examining the rise of kleptocracy in governments around the world, with Russia as a prime target. The International Republican Institute, which receives some funding from the State Department and the United States Agency for International Development, has worked for decades in promoting democracy around the world.“We are now seeing another uptick in attacks. What is particular in this instance is the broadening of the type of websites they are going after,” Microsoft’s president, Brad Smith, said Monday in an interview.“These are organizations that are informally tied to Republicans,” he said, “so we see them broadening beyond the sites they have targeted in the past.”The International Republican Institute’s board of directors includes several Republican leaders who have been highly critical of Mr. Trump’s interactions with Mr. Putin, including a summit meeting last month between the two leaders in Helsinki, Finland.Among them are Senator John McCain of Arizona; Mitt Romney, a former presidential candidate; and — though he was silent on Mr. Trump’s appearance in Helsinki — Lt. Gen. H. R. McMaster, who was replaced in the spring as the White House national security adviser. General McMaster, who is now retired, had been the author of the national security strategy that called for treating Russia as a “revisionist power” and confronting it around the world.“This is another demonstration of the fact that the Russians aren’t really pursuing partisan attacks, they are pursuing attacks that they perceive in their own national self-interest,” said Eric Rosenbach, the director of the Defending Digital Democracy project at Harvard University, on Monday. “It’s about disrupting and diminishing any group that challenges how Putin’s Russia is operating at home and around the world.”The State Department has traditionally helped fund both Republican and Democratic groups that engage in promoting democracy.Daniel Twining, the president of the International Republican Institute, called the apparent “spear phishing” attempt “consistent with the campaign of meddling that the Kremlin has waged against organizations that support democracy and human rights.”“It is clearly designed to sow confusion, conflict and fear among those who criticize Mr. Putin’s authoritarian regime,” Mr. Twining said in a statement.The goal of the Russian hacking attempt was unclear, and Microsoft was able to catch the spoofed websites as they were set up.But Mr. Smith said that “these attempts are the newest security threats to groups connected with both American political parties” ahead of the 2018 midterm elections.“These attacks are seeking to disrupt and divide,” he said. “There is an asymmetric risk here for democratic societies. The kind of attacks we see from authoritarian regimes are seeking to fracture and splinter groups in our society.”On Sunday, the current national security adviser, John R. Bolton, suggested that Russia was not the only threat in the fall elections. He also named China, Iran and North Korea — the other most active cyberoperators among state adversaries — as threats.But so far Microsoft and other firms have not found extensive election-related actions by those nations.Senior United States intelligence officials have also warned that the midterm elections will be targeted by foreign governments looking to influence American voters.Speaking last month at the Aspen Security Forum, Christopher A. Wray, the F.B.I. director, said that his agency was seeing information operations “aimed at sowing discord and divisiveness in the country.”Only days later, in a report first released to members of Congress, Facebook revealed that it had discovered and eliminated an influence operation aimed at fueling divisions among Americans by targeting progressive groups. Facebook stopped short of naming Russia as the culprit of that campaign, although the social media company pointed to similarities between the influence operation and previous work by the Russian state-linked Internet Research Agency.The attempt revealed by Microsoft mirrored efforts by Russian state-backed hackers before the 2016 presidential election.After the 2016 vote, a number of cybersecurity companies discovered websites that had been created by Russian hackers to spoof, or mimic, those of well-known institutions. Among the think tanks targeted were the Council on Foreign Relations and the Eurasia Group, both based in New York; the Center for a New American Security in Washington; Transparency International in Berlin; and the London-based International Institute for Strategic Studies.A single letter, or even a punctuation mark, was often the only difference between the real and fake websites.The fake websites were used as the conduit for a number of attacks, including persuading victims to download harmful malware or to reveal passwords and other personal information. But for the past year, Microsoft has grown increasingly aggressive in countering them.In 2016, a federal judge in Virginia agreed that the group Microsoft calls “Strontium” and others call “APT 28,” for “advanced persistent threat,” would continue its attacks. The judge appointed a “special master” with the power to authorize Microsoft to seize fake websites as soon as they are registered. As a result, the hackers have lost control of many of the sites only days after creating them.But it is a constant cat-and-mouse game, as the Russian hackers seek new vectors of attack while Microsoft and others seek to cut them off.“These attacks keep happening because they work. They are successful again and again,” said Thomas Rid, a professor of strategic studies at Johns Hopkins University, who doubts whether anyone can stay ahead of the hackers.“Microsoft is playing whack-a-mole here,” Mr. Rid said. “These sites are easy to register and bring back up, and so they will keep doing so.”Last month, Microsoft announced that it had detected and helped block similar attacks against two senators who are up for re-election. Senator Claire McCaskill, Democrat of Missouri, who faces one of the toughest political challenges this year, acknowledged that her campaign was among them after months of keeping the news quiet — apparently to avoid alienating voters who doubt the Russian role in election interference.Microsoft says it is expanding its effort to help political candidates counter foreign influence. It is starting an initiative it calls “AccountGuard” to bolster protections to candidates and campaign offices at the federal, state and local level, as well as think tanks and political organizations.With the midterms less than three months away, Microsoft said greater cooperation was needed between tech companies and the federal government over efforts to interfere in the American elections.“Over the last year, the larger tech companies, in particular, have put into place stronger information-sharing practices where we have seen these threats emerge,” Mr. Smith said. “Those agreements, however, are informal.”David E. Sanger reported from Boston, and Sheera Frenkel from San Francisco.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.

Supported byBy Sheera Frenkel and Jonathan MartinSAN FRANCISCO — Update: The suspected hack of the Democratic National Committee’s voter database was a false alarm, D.N.C. officials said on Thursday, and the unusual activity that raised concern was merely a test. The updated article is here.The Democratic National Committee said Wednesday that it was alerted to an attempted hack of its voter database this week and that it had notified law enforcement.The effort to target the Democratic Party’s voter file, known as Votebuilder, was not successful, and a party official said the identities of the culprits were unclear. When the Democratic National Committee was hacked in 2016 during the presidential campaign, the incident was  traced to Russia.This week’s attempt was aggressive, two officials briefed on it said. The hackers set up a fake page that mimicked the party’s login page for its voter-registration website, a tactic that could gather names, passwords and other credentials of those using the voter database. The hackers also may have sent emails to people within the national committee to try to trick them into using the fake page, a tactic known as “spearphishing,” the officials said.The Federal Bureau of Investigation is looking into the incident, one of the officials said.“This attempt is further proof that there are constant threats as we head into midterm elections, and we must remain vigilant in order to prevent future attacks,” said Bob Lord, chief security officer for the Democratic National Committee. He called the voter file “the party’s most sensitive information.”The combination of this attack on the committee, continued influence operations by Russia and others using social media, and efforts to breach think tanks underscores that the cyber age has changed elections forever. So many systems are vulnerable to manipulation, from the voter-registration systems in the 50 states to the inner workings of the parties, that the opportunities for foreign and domestic manipulation are many.“The focus has gone from using the cyber realm to steal secrets to using it to impose national power,” Rob Joyce, the White House cybersecurity coordinator until the position was eliminated a few months ago, said this month at Defcon, an annual convention that focuses on hacking and defenses against it.Ahead of the midterms, political groups and government organizations have been on high alert for new hacks and foreign meddling. Microsoft said this week that it had detected that hackers tied to Russian intelligence targeted the Senate and conservative think tanks in the United States, also by creating fake websites.And after Facebook last month identified a political influence campaign aimed at potentially disrupting the midterms, the company said this week that it had uncovered other disinformation efforts targeting people around the world.On Sunday, John R. Bolton, the national security adviser, suggested that Russia was not the only threat in the November elections.“I can say definitively that it’s a sufficient national security concern about Chinese meddling, Iranian meddling and North Korean meddling that we’re taking steps to try and prevent it,” Mr. Bolton said in an interview with ABC.Many of the hacking attempts are mimicking the techniques that were used to penetrate the Democratic National Committee in 2016. At the time, Russian state-backed hackers used trick emails to take senior party officials, including Hillary Clinton’s campaign chairman, John D. Podesta, to a page that looked identical to a password screen for Google’s email service, Gmail. In fact, the page gave attackers access to the officials’ accounts.Many of the warnings the national committee received several years ago about potential attacks either were ignored or did not reach the right individuals.Since then, the committee has taken steps to improve its cybersecurity. This year, it hired Mr. Lord, who previously held top technology roles at Yahoo and Twitter, and Raffi Krikorian, a former Uber executive, as its chief technology officer.The party’s team has put new security practices into place and begun testing employees in spearphishing drills to see if they will click on the malicious emails. The national committee has also improved its cooperation with the F.B.I., according to law enforcement officials.The Votebuilder database is a particular prize for hackers because it contains personal details on Democratic voters that could be used to unlock other information, including personal email accounts and files. A successful penetration of the database could have set off other hacks in a domino effect, cybersecurity experts said.A cybersecurity researcher from a firm called Lookout contacted the Democratic National Committee on Tuesday about the attempted intrusion, the two officials briefed on the matter said. Lookout confirmed that it had been in touch with the committee, and the attempt was also detected by DigitalOcean, a cloud service provider. CNN earlier reported the new hacking attempt.Lookout first detected the fake website late Monday, using a newly built artificial intelligence system that spots fake sites as they are created, said Mike Murray, the company’s vice president of security intelligence.“We realized the significance,” he said. “Within hours, we started waking up people to get them on the phone.”Because the website was caught so quickly, it is impossible to know who the hackers were or how they planned to use the site, Mr. Murray said. Such attacks are easy, he said, because anyone with decent programming skills can make a fake website in a few hours.“The adversaries are becoming more sophisticated in how they use these websites, but the attack is the same,” he said.Mr. Lord said the White House also needed to get involved to improve cyberdefenses.“These threats are serious, and that’s why it’s critical that we all work together, but we can’t do this alone,” he said. “We need the administration to take more aggressive steps to protect our voting systems.”The attempted hack was revealed as the Department of Homeland Security’s cybersecurity division hailed its efforts to protect the nation’s election systems from foreign intrusions.During a tour of the agency’s National Cybersecurity and Communications Integration Center near Washington on Wednesday, Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, and Christopher C. Krebs, her top deputy for cybersecurity, said the department was more prepared than it had been during the 2016 elections.“We are better positioned than at any time in history,” Ms. Nielsen said, standing before a bank of computers and giant monitors showing real-time threats to the nation’s cyber and physical infrastructure.An earlier version of this article misstated what cybersecurity officials said about hackers’ efforts to gain access to the Democratic National Committee’s voter database. The officials said the hackers may have sent so-called spearphishing emails to D.N.C. officials, not that they did send such emails.Follow Sheera Frenkel and Jonathan Martin on Twitter: @sheeraf and @jmartNYT.Sheera Frenkel reported from San Francisco, and Jonathan Martin from Washington. David E. Sanger contributed reporting from Sydney, Australia, and Ron Nixon from Washington.Interested in All Things Tech?  Get the Bits newsletter delivered to your inbox weekly for the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.

Supported byBy Nicholas FandosWASHINGTON — House Republicans withdrew on Thursday from negotiations with Democrats over a pact that would have effectively barred both parties from using hacked or stolen material on the campaign trail this fall.Leaders of the National Republican Congressional Committee, the campaign arm of House Republicans, and their counterparts at the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee had labored for much of the summer over rules that would have governed the way the congressionally run committees and their candidates treated material like the thousands of pages of damaging Democratic documents stolen and leaked by Russian hackers in 2016.Instead, the two parties were left on Thursday exchanging shots just two months before Election Day; Republicans claimed that Democrats had negotiated in bad faith and violated an agreement not to speak about the negotiations publicly, and Democrats said that Republicans were merely searching for an excuse to pull out. It only fed the complaint by Democrats that Republican lawmakers have resisted bridging partisan divisions in the two years since Russia began its brazen attack on the American political system.“Negotiations are about trust. Once that trust is breached, there is simply no way to reach an agreement,” said Matt Gorman, a spokesman for the Republican committee. “We don’t need a pledge to do what we planned to do already. And we’re certainly not going to be a pawn in someone’s publicity stunt.”House Republicans “are not seeking hacked materials,” Mr. Gorman said. “We don’t want hacked materials. We have no intention of using hacked materials.”Democrats strongly rebutted that claim, accusing Republicans of slow-walking negotiations before pulling the plug based on a benign press interview.“We have been clear from Day 1 that the D.C.C.C. will not use stolen hacked materials for political gain, and have been negotiating in good faith for three months to get the N.R.C.C. on the same page,” said Representative Ben Ray Luján of New Mexico, the chairman of the Democratic committee. “The N.R.C.C. has needlessly delayed and made one excuse after another, and I’m incredibly disappointed that they have backed out of this commitment not to use stolen hacked materials. This is a sad day for our democracy.”The two sides had been close to reaching an agreement as recently as the past week or so, according to officials involved in the negotiations who spoke on the condition of anonymity to candidly discuss the talks. But a key difference of opinion remained over how to deal with hacked or stolen material that entered the public domain through news or other sources. Republicans argued that such material had to be fair game and that to ask candidates not to seize on news reports was unnecessarily prohibitive. Democrats countered that any agreement would be toothless without such a provision.As recently as Tuesday evening, Democrats proposed a draft of the agreement that would have required the two committees to pledge that they would not “use known stolen or hacked information, or promote or disseminate hacked materials to the press, regardless of the source,” according to an official familiar with the latest version.The draft’s other provisions included a pledge not to aid hacking efforts, not to seek out hacked or stolen materials, and to report any contacts with foreign actors to law enforcement authorities. The Democratic committee and its candidates plan to honor the draft’s provisions.But Republicans felt that Democrats had repeatedly tried to jam them into a premature agreement and ultimately that Mr. Luján violated the terms of the negotiations when he told The Wall Street Journal on Tuesday that the two parties hoped to announce final terms this week. (Representative Steve Stivers of Ohio, the Republican committee chairman, had publicly acknowledged the negotiations at an event in June.)Without a deal, the parties will be left to more or less set their own standards, as they have in past election cycles. Outside political advocacy groups, which are expected to spend tens of millions of dollars on House races this fall, would not have been subject to the pledge.The issue is hardly hypothetical. In addition to the more publicized intrusions into the Democratic National Committee, Russian actors in 2016 hacked into the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee servers and eventually shared thousands of pages of stolen information on candidates in nearly a dozen House races with bloggers and reporters. Their efforts appeared to target competitive races in states including Florida, Pennsylvania, New Hampshire, Ohio, Illinois, New Mexico and North Carolina.The hackers also released the home addresses, phone numbers and personal email addresses of Democratic House members.News outlets widely reported on the hacked campaign material, amplifying the impact of the Russian intrusion, in the run-up to the 2016 election. And after a Republican political advertisement aired that appeared to use hacked materials, Mr. Luján wrote a letter that August warning the Republican congressional committee that it would be complicit in Russia’s influence campaign if it continued to use hacked or stolen material.American intelligence officials and technology titans like Facebook and Microsoft said they have seen evidence that Russia continues to actively interfere in the American political process. But there has not been evidence made public to suggest that Russia or any other state actor has penetrated the networks of candidates or either campaign committee.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.

Supported byAt WarRecently the Times visited the Natick Soldier Systems Center outside Boston to check out the Army’s newest Meals, Ready to Eat (better known as an M.R.E.): a three-by-five-inch Sicilian-style pizza slice, topped with melt-proof shreds of mozzarella and mild pepperoni. So far it’s received mostly positive reviews from troops.The story inspired Sam Sifton, the Times food editor, to wonder what recipe hacks service members rely on to make their M.R.E.s more palatable. Tell us your favorite M.R.E. tricks and we’ll review them with Sam.Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of At War delivered to your inbox every week. For more coverage of conflict, visit nytimes.com/atwar.

Supported byBy Richard Fausset and Alan Blinder• Candidates are making a final pitch to voters across the United States.ATLANTA — For weeks, Brian Kemp, the Georgia secretary of state and Republican candidate for governor, has faced accusations that he is trying to suppress the minority vote in his race against Stacey Abrams. And just days ago, a federal judge ruled that the state needed to adjust elements of its so-called “exact match” voting requirement, calling them needlessly burdensome.Now, in what Democrats said was a desperate attempt to deflect attention just two days before a crucial midterm election, Mr. Kemp used his official position Sunday to announce, with scant evidence, that the Democrats were under investigation for allegedly trying to hack the state’s voter registration files.Democrats immediately denounced the claim as bogus and called it an abuse of power.The controversy over voting rights, and the basic mechanics of Georgia’s electoral process, has roiled one of the nation’s marquee races. Mr. Kemp is locked in a tight contest with Ms. Abrams, the Democratic nominee, who would become the first African-American woman to lead any state if she wins. For weeks she has been accusing him of trying to suppress the minority vote and called for him to step aside as secretary of state — something he has declined to do while calling allegations of suppression “a farce.”Mr. Kemp is a staunch supporter of President Trump, and appeared with him at a rally Sunday in Macon, Ga. In brief remarks before and during the rally, Mr. Kemp made no reference to the investigation. Mr. Trump, who has made numerous baseless claims of voter fraud in the past, spoke at length about voting issues, but did not mention the probe.Concerns about voter suppression, particularly in minority communities, have been raised again and again in states across the country in recent months. A North Dakota law requiring voters to have residential addresses has alarmed residents of Native American reservations, where houses often lack numbers. In Kansas, the one polling place in majority-Hispanic Dodge City, was moved outside the town limits, leading to a lawsuit by the American Civil Liberties Union. And in Texas, a federal appeals court upheld a law requiring voters to show ID before they cast a ballot, saying it did not discriminate against African-Americans and Hispanics.But the controversy over voting rights has been most heated in the Georgia race, especially after The Associated Press reported more than 50,000 voters were stuck in a “pending’’ status because their registration forms did not precisely match personal information on government databases — under a system that can flag voters simply because of a missing hyphen. Nearly 70 percent of the registrants were African-American, the news agency found.The initial announcement of the Georgia inquiry did not cite any supporting evidence. Later Sunday, Candice Broce, a spokeswoman for Mr. Kemp’s office, said that the inquiry was set off by an email that Mr. Kemp’s office had obtained that showed a person named Rachel Small “talking about trying to hack the Secretary of State’s system.” The email was sent to Sara Ghazal, the Democrats’ voter protection director, Ms. Broce said.In the early evening, the state Democratic Party in Georgia released what it said were the email exchanges Ms. Broce was referring to. They appeared to be rooted in efforts to find troubling weaknesses in Georgia’s election system.Critics have raised concerns about the system’s vulnerability after two breaches in recent years that exposed the data of millions of voters, and Democrats have pointed to such breaches as proof of what they call Mr. Kemp’s “incompetence” as secretary of state.In the first email, a man named Richard Wright, who Democrats say is not affiliated with the party, writes to Ms. Small, whom officials identified as a Democratic Party volunteer.In the email, Mr. Wright describes how “any file on the system” on a Georgia voter information page can be accessed through a place on the site meant for downloading sample ballots and poll cards. He also shows how an online voter registration site can be used to “download anyones[sic] data.”The Democratic Party statement says that Ms. Small forwarded that email to Ms. Ghazal. The party said that it was “abundantly clear” that Ms. Small did not attempt to manipulate the site.“The Kemp campaign has no case and must immediately retract their defamatory accusations,” the Democratic statement said.Ryan Mahoney, Mr. Kemp’s campaign spokesman, said in a statement late Sunday that the effort to “expose vulnerabilities” in the voter system was an “act of desperation” by Democrats.“This was a 4th quarter Hail Mary pass that was intercepted in the end zone,” he said. “Thanks to the systems and protocols established by Secretary of State Brian Kemp, no personal information was breached. These power-hungry radicals should be held accountable for their criminal behavior.”[Read more about how voting became a key issue in Georgia.]Voting rights and suppression are particularly combustible issues in Georgia, a Deep South state with a long history of denying the franchise to people of color; its voting procedures and laws have been subject to numerous legal challenges and formal complaints leading up to Election Day. Ms. Abrams and Georgia Democrats have assailed Mr. Kemp, whom opponents have portrayed as a “master of voter suppression” because of purges of voter rolls and additional limits on voting.As recently as Friday, a judge sided with critics of Mr. Kemp in one case, stating that the procedures for verifying the eligibility of voters whose citizenship was in question was “creating confusion as Election Day looms.”Concerns about the integrity of the voting system are rampant. A poll, released last week and commissioned by The Atlanta Journal-Constitution and WSB-TV, said that 44 percent of respondents believed it was likely or very likely that someone would attempt to tamper with Georgia’s voting system. The survey had a margin of error of three percentage points.The secretary of state’s investigation is also likely to further inflame the rancorous national debate over Republicans’ allegations of electoral fraud — many of which have proven to be baseless — and whether those claims are being used to unfairly harm the Democrats’ electoral chances.Mr. Kemp, who is white, has served as secretary of state since 2010. His office has overseen legal purges of more than two million inactive voters from the rolls since 2012 and stalled more than 50,000 applications filed by voters, most of them black. But he has vehemently denied charges of suppression and said he had “made it easier to vote and harder to cheat in our state,” noting that Georgia has added a million voters to the rolls since he took office.Mr. Kemp’s office said in a statement Sunday that it had opened its inquiry “after receiving information from our legal team about failed efforts to breach the online voter registration and My Voter Page.” The office said it had formally requested the assistance of the F.B.I., and that state officials were “working with our private sector vendors and investigators to review data logs.”Kevin Rowson, a spokesman in the F.B.I.’s Atlanta field office, said the bureau had no comment. When the F.B.I. receives referrals, agents then decide whether to proceed with an investigation. The bureau does not comment on the existence of investigations, and it has traditionally avoided taking public actions that would affect elections.The announcement by the secretary of state’s office was a distinctly odd one. Usually investigations begin by determining if there was a cyber intrusion or an action taken by an attacker to bring down networks or wipe out information, or whether data was changed or stolen. Only then would investigators turn to gathering forensic evidence on who might have conducted an attack — a foreign government, a political rival, maybe a group of teenagers.Mr. Kemp has made similar accusations of vote hacking in the past. In December 2016, he accused the Department of Homeland Security of hacking into Georgia’s voter registration records, as well as the Georgia secretary of state’s computer systems. An independent investigation by the department’s inspector general, which operates independently from the department’s chain of command, found that the activity Mr. Kemp believed was suspicious was, in fact, normal behavior between computer systems.Voter registration records, which are kept on a state-by-state basis, are an alluring target for hackers. The records provide details on voters, yet are often kept in insecure databases or computers with outdated systems. During the 2016 presidential elections, Russian state actors probed the voting registration records of at least 20 states, according to the Department of Homeland Security.Hey, I’m Alex Burns, a politics correspondent for The Times. Send me your questions using the NYT app. I’ll give you the latest intel from the campaign trail.Some Democratic voters, like Dawson Zimmerman, a 28-year-old high school teacher, said Sunday that they questioned the timing of the announcement.“I think, given the documented attempts at voting purges from the standpoint of Kemp, I can’t help but be skeptical about the timing and lack of evidence provided at this time,” Mr. Zimmerman said.As people began gathering Sunday afternoon for Mr. Trump’s rally, several supporters of the Republican ticket in Georgia said they had already heard about the allegations against the Democratic Party.Although there were scattered doubts about whether the election would be fair, some voters still expressed confidence in the security of Tuesday’s balloting. Shawn McClellan, who was resting against a barricade and wearing a red-and-white “USA” shirt, said he believed the swirl of allegations about the election would sort themselves out.“The integrity of the political system takes care of itself,” said Mr. McClellan, a teacher from suburban Atlanta. “I think it’s good that there are challenges on both sides — it keeps them on their toes.”He expected complaints by Wednesday morning, no matter the outcome in the governor’s race.“One side or the other, whoever loses, they’re going to squawk,” he said.Alan Blinder reported from Macon, Ga. Sheera Frenkel, Adam Goldman, David Sanger, Liam Stack and Susan Chira contributed reporting.



      By KAREN YOURISH

JULY 13, 2018

On Friday, the special counsel investigating Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election indicted 12 Russian intelligence officers for hacking the Democratic National Committee and Hillary Clinton’s campaign.According to the indictment …Russian  Intelligence OfficersOn July 27: Tried to break into personal servers of …2. Hacked into computer networks of …1. Hacked email accounts of campaign of …3. Used online personas and a website …Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee and D.N.C.Hillary Clinton(Also onJuly 27, Donald J.Trump publicly encouraged Russia to hack Mrs. Clinton’s emails.)Guccifer 2.0DCLeaksWikiLeaks4. To release stolen emails and documents.Russian  Intelligence OfficersOn July 27: Tried for first time to break into personal servers of …1. Hacked email accounts of campaign of …2. Hacked into computer networks of …3. Used online personas and a website …DemocraticCongressional CampaignCommittee and D.N.C.Guccifer 2.0DCLeaksWikiLeaksHillary Clinton(Also on July 27, Donald J. Trump publicly encouraged Russia to hack Mrs. Clinton’s emails.)4. To release stolen emails and documents.Russian  Intelligence OfficersOn July 27: Tried for first time to break into personal servers of …1. Hacked email accounts of campaign of …2. Hacked into computer networks of …3. Used online personas and a website …DemocraticCongressional CampaignCommittee and D.N.C.Guccifer 2.0DCLeaksWikiLeaksHillary Clinton(Also on July 27, Donald J. Trump publicly encouraged Russia to hack Mrs. Clinton’s emails.)4. To release stolen emails and documents.Russian  Intelligence OfficersOn July 27: Tried for first time to break into personal servers of …1. Hacked email accounts of campaign of …2. Hacked into computer networks of …3. Used online personas and a website …DemocraticCongressional CampaignCommittee and D.N.C.Guccifer 2.0DCLeaksWikiLeaksHillary Clinton(Also on July 27, Donald J. Trump publicly encouraged Russia to hack Mrs. Clinton’s emails.)4. To release stolen emails and documents.

Supported byTimes InsiderBy Stephen HiltnerAs one of The New York Times’s three Surfacing residents, I’ve grown accustomed to entering unfamiliar places. My job is to shed light on the world’s offbeat and often misunderstood communities and subcultures, and that necessarily means stepping outside what’s familiar. Still, when I decided to attend Defcon, a freewheeling hacking and cybersecurity conference held each year in Las Vegas, disconcerting advice began pouring in from all sides.Bring a loaner laptop, said Runa Sandvik, the senior director of information security for The Times, referring to a temporary machine that could be wiped clean upon my return.Be wary of the A.T.M.s in and around the conference, said Rachel Tobac, a Defcon veteran who first suggested the story idea to me. (In the past, nearby A.T.M.s have been targeted; in 2009, a fraudulent A.T.M., aimed at stealing data, was discovered at the Riviera Hotel Casino.) Oh, and make sure all your software is up-to-date, she added.Above all else: Avoid the public Wi-Fi, several people cautioned. It can make you an easy target.The anxiety surrounding Defcon and its crowds is, of course, partly justified. (See above regarding the A.T.M.) But the general public’s apprehension about the hacking world is also a result of a persistent and pervasive characterization — in the news, in films, in novels — of hackers as uniformly nefarious characters, prone to stealing our banking information and weaponizing our private data.As is often the case, the truth is much more nuanced.Within a few hours of arriving in Vegas, I found myself seated at the front of a conference room with Chris Hadnagy, a pioneer in the field of social engineering — a branch of hacking that involves manipulating people (instead of just computer systems) to gain access to information. A social-engineering hacker, for example, might call up your cellular provider and impersonate your spouse, in hopes of hijacking your text messages — which could then be used to bypass the two-step authentication on your email account.Mr. Hadnagy, who for many years operated under the alias loganWHD, now works as a cybersecurity professional, consulting with and training companies to bolster their defenses. He also founded a nonprofit organization, Innocent Lives Foundation, that combats child predation.In other words: In a world that tends to focus on villainous hackers, he’s one of the good guys.The transition that people like Mr. Hadnagy have made — from underground hacking, using aliases, to aboveboard forms of hacking, using their real names — is the main thrust of the article that resulted from my attending Defcon. “Our clients are the Fortune 500 companies of the world,” Mr. Hadnagy said, referring to his consulting work. “You’re not going to get a giant bank to pay you if they’re hiring ‘loganWHD.’”But as is true with many of our Surfacing pieces, another goal was to broaden reader appreciation of something that’s become increasingly apparent to me this year: that many of the world’s underrepresented communities are all too often painted with a broad brush. When reporting on what’s different, it’s easy to be distracted by what’s dramatic — and to suggest that the most dramatic elements of a community represent the whole. This trap can sometimes result in reporting that caricatures and stereotypes.Engaging with virtuous hackers hasn’t blinded me to the threat of cyber criminals. The reach of Russian hackers during the 2016 presidential election, for example, is truly stunning — and the details are still coming to light. But now, every time I imagine a nefarious hacker targeting a voting database to commit a crime, I can counterbalance the thought by recalling a thoughtful conversation I had with Nick Bishop and Mike Westmacott, two hackers I met at Defcon who were diligently taking apart and testing a Diebold voting machine in an attempt to identify — and increase awareness of — its vulnerabilities.They weren’t wearing masks, nor were they hoping to undermine anyone’s vote. Freely offering up their names, they said that their goal was to help ensure the integrity of our elections.And what made our conversation dangerous wasn’t the looming threat of the public Wi-Fi. It was the power I had to misrepresent their community.Keep up with Times Insider stories on Twitter, via the Reader Center: @ReaderCenter.

Supported byThe Queens Democratic Party machine seemed to be nominating candidates without their consent. I needed to find them. But how? By Andy NewmanTimes Insider delivers behind-the-scenes insights into how news, features and opinion come together at The New York Times.Reporters get a lot of crazy tips. Some are so nuts that your first inclination is to dismiss them out of hand.Like the one that led to Friday’s story about Democratic Party bosses in Queens running many candidates for office without bothering to tell them. Last month, a friend emailed me.Her sister-in-law was running for an entry-level Democratic Party post in Queens called County Committee member, as an anti-establishment “reformer.” She noticed that one of the party machine’s candidates was a woman she knew who was not involved in politics. The sister-in-law called the woman to ask her about this. The woman had no idea what she was talking about.The party bosses, the sister-in-law also noticed, were running a lot more candidates this year to fill county committee seats, of which there are more than 2,700.“I have no doubt that if one name was used without permission there are others who don’t know they are on the ballot as well,” the sister-in-law told her.To me this sounded like a leap, a lefty conspiracy theory. But I owed my friend a polite response.“Jillian, this is very interesting though I don’t quite get it,” I wrote. If party leaders are putting people on the ballot without their knowledge, “What do they expect these people to do when they find out?”What they would do, it turns out, was yell at the reporter who told them.But that came later. First I did a little research and found out that this kind of thing had happened before in New York City, where dirty tricks and politics go back a very long way. It wasn’t so far-fetched.I needed to call candidates. But the party machine had nominated more than 1,300 of them, most presumably legitimate. Where to begin? I tried to think like a corrupt party hack. Scammers prey on the elderly. Call older candidates first.I started with Helen Gambichler, 72 — I liked the sound of her name. She knew she was running, but only because she’d gotten a “Dear Candidate” letter showing how her name would appear in Korean on the ballot. She was livid.“Who could have done that?” she asked. “Who could have put my name on the ballot?”Then I called Arlene Dudkin-Sachs, because she was 76 and her current address was in Florida. She assured me I was mistaken.“I’m not running,” she said from her home near Palm Beach. “You might have picked up the name Dudkin because my uncle was a prosecutor in Newark — Harry Dudkin.”Two for two. I tried a third.“Hi, Anna Ardolino? I’m a reporter from The New York Times my name is Andy Newman I’m writing about the race for Queens Democratic County Committee and I’m looking to talk to some of the candidates,” I said, trying to get it all out in one breath.Long, suspicious pause.“Who are you asking about?”I explained to Ms. Ardolino that she was running for office.“I don’t know how they got my name to be a runner,” she said. “I’m not a candidate. I’m an 82-year-old woman.”A few names down the list, Kathleen Dunphy, 81, picked up the phone. “I’m not running for anything,” she said. “I’m running for my life.”I enlisted my colleague Tyler Pager to make calls. He spent the day confusing senior citizens.“There’s no such thing,” said Harold Haber, 94.“I’m disabled, I don’t run for office,” said Mary Covello, 64, who demanded to know how she could get off the ballot. That turns out to be difficult. Helen Prager, a retired educator, told Tyler she had been trying for weeks to no avail.(Meanwhile, reformer candidates were being disqualified for tiny technicalities by the city Board of Elections, whose commissioners are appointed by political bosses. One was bounced because his first name was listed as Timothy on one form and Tim on another, another because her name appeared as “Karen Vicente” on one form and “Karen A. Vicente” on another.)Tyler called the home of Gerard Knapp, 82. He was not available, said his wife, Bridget Knapp, 74.Tyler asked Mrs. Knapp about her husband’s political aspirations. He had none, she said impatiently. She had never heard of this county committee.Tyler looked more closely at the list — male candidates are listed in one section, females in another — and noticed that Mrs. Knapp was running, too. He broke the news to her.“This is stupid. Goodbye,” Mrs. Knapp said, and hung up the phone.Keep up with Times Insider stories on Twitter, via the Reader Center: @ReaderCenter.Andy Newman has covered New York City and vicinity for The Times since 1997. He was the founding reporter of the Pet City and New York Today columns and ran The Times's City Room blog.  @andylocal • Facebook 

Supported byBy Kevin WerbachMr. Werbach is the author of a forthcoming book about blockchain and digital currency.The Russian operatives accused of hacking the Democratic National Committee in 2016 didn’t use cash or credit cards. To pay for servers and domain names, they turned to Bitcoin, a digital currency that allows for secure payments without banks, government authorization or verified identities.Yet what makes Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies appealing to criminals also limits their usefulness to them. Bitcoin transaction records helped investigators find the Russian agents under indictment. To cover their tracks, the perpetrators of the hacking scheme would have been better off using briefcases full of cash.The details of this case are an encouraging sign. Cryptocurrencies are part of a global experiment in making money — the secure exchange of value — as decentralized as information on the internet. Just as anyone can put up a blog without going through traditional media, cryptocurrencies can remove control from financial intermediaries.And like the internet, cryptocurrencies are not inherently a force for lawlessness. Nor is their legitimacy guaranteed. Governments and the private sector must make existing gateways between cryptocurrency and the traditional financial world, such as Bitcoin exchanges, more transparent. And they must adopt mechanisms to limit illegal activity, fraud and regulatory evasion, while preserving the freedom to innovate.Ironically, Bitcoin’s success depends on the same critical factor as a state-issued “fiat” currency: the collective trust of its community of users. Their confidence in the accuracy of the ledger of all Bitcoin transactions is what makes the currency viable. Law-abiding citizens want efficient, reliable payments. Bitcoin’s mysterious creator, Satoshi Nakamoto, realized this. His 2008 white paper said a great deal about cutting out banks; it said nothing about evading the rule of law.Cryptocurrencies make transactions trustworthy without relying on private intermediaries or central banks. Banks know your public identity, but they keep transaction specifics secret. Bitcoin does the opposite. Identities are represented with private, seemingly arbitrary strings of letters and numbers known as cryptographic keys. Transactions, however, are public. Anyone can see how the money flows. That’s necessary for Bitcoin’s security model, which relies on a public network of computers collectively validating transactions.The problem for criminals is that it’s possible to reconstruct Bitcoin identities from transaction patterns. The currency moves through gateways, exchanges and wallet systems, which makes it easier for people to acquire, store and use cryptocurrency in a world that still speaks dollars and euros. However, these systems are usually centralized, so they can be traced, and their administrators can be asked to cooperate with law enforcement. That is likely what happened in the Russian hacking case.That is also what helped lead to the takedown in 2013 of Silk Road, a widely used online marketplace for drug transactions and other illegal purchases. BTC-E, a Russian cryptocurrency exchange, later became the platform of choice for criminals because it did not collect identification documents from its customers. BTC-E was shut down by American law enforcement agencies last year.As these examples show, governments have more leverage over cryptocurrency markets than one might expect. In 2013, the Treasury Department issued guidelines requiring exchanges to verify customer identities. As a result, the volume of cryptocurrency obtained from illegal activity and laundered through Europe between 2013 and 2016 was five times as much as the amount that went through North America, according to a study published in January by the analytics firm Elliptic and the Center on Sanctions and Illicit Finance. Similar requirements will take effect in Europe next year.There are ways to make cryptocurrency activity harder for law enforcement to track. But hiding transactions adds cost and complexity. More important, decentralized cryptocurrency networks still require trust in the software developers, transaction validators and other support organizations that work with them. These partners have to be responsible if they want to support large markets.To be sure, there is still substantial illegal activity involving cryptocurrencies. Much of it, though, involves thefts and swindles from legitimate cryptocurrency users. Unless law enforcement and regulation weed out these bad actors, cryptocurrencies will not become mainstream.The miracle of Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies is that they can create trustworthy transactions in the absence of financial institutions and processes that the world has relied on for centuries. Bitcoin took hold, in part, because the 2008 financial crisis shook so many people’s faith in the status quo. Trust, however, is a fickle thing. Both cryptocurrency proponents and governments must sustain it to create a viable environment for the money of the future.Kevin Werbach is a professor at the University of Pennsylvania and author of the forthcoming book “The Blockchain and the New Architecture of Trust.”Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 

Supported byBy David D. KirkpatrickOf all the scandals swirling around the Trump White House, the Republican fund-raiser Elliott Broidy is in a category of his own.Documents from the office of the president’s personal lawyer, Michael D. Cohen, revealed that Mr. Broidy had agreed to pay $1.6 million to a former Playboy model to keep her quiet about their affair, which led her to get an abortion. And emails stolen from his account showed he had used his White House access on behalf of the rulers of the United Arab Emirates while landing hundreds of millions of dollars in contracts with them for his private defense company.Mr. Broidy, though, is not going quietly. His lawyers said this week that, after more than 80 subpoenas and months of forensic analysis, they had managed to identify as many as 1,200 other individuals targeted by the same cybercriminals.The list of names the lawyers compiled, they argue, will bolster Mr. Broidy’s case that the rulers of Qatar — the tiny Persian Gulf emirate that is a nemesis of the U.A.E.— had targeted him for his advocacy against them.Many of the other targets are well-known enemies of Qatar: senior officials of the U.A.E. and also of Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain and Syria; American, British and Dutch commentators known for their criticism of Qatar; and two former employees of a Washington public affairs firm with U.A.E. ties.Others on the list, though, have no obvious appeal as targets for Qatar, including several Syrian Americans, activists on multiple sides of the Syrian conflict, a former official of the Central Intelligence Agency and, incongruously, a handful of Bollywood actresses.The list of targets was collected in the course of  lawsuits that Mr. Broidy filed this year, accusing Qatar and several individuals of conspiring in the cyberattack against him. A federal judge in California last month dismissed the claim against Qatar on the grounds of sovereign immunity. But Mr. Broidy’s lawyers are still pursuing claims against the individual defendants, and the lawyers argue that their initial success at building at least a circumstantial case demonstrates the potential effectiveness of such litigation against even state-sponsored hackers.Their litigation also offers the latest glimpse into an escalating cyberwar among Persian Gulf royals, some of whom have evidently turned to various forms of spying by high-priced international hackers to embarrass one another. Two lawsuits filed this month, in Israel and Cyprus, revealed that the rulers of the U.A.E. had paid an Israeli firm to hack the smartphones of several senior Qatari officials and royals, including the emir.Before the scandals, Mr. Broidy served as vice chairman of the Republican finance committee and enjoyed extensive access to President Trump and his White House.Mr. Broidy, his wife, and some other associates all received similar phishing emails trying to trick recipients into clicking a link to a bogus website and typing a password.The links to the bogus websites always were presented in compressed shorthand, provided by the online service TinyURL and presumably used to mask details of the addresses that might reveal the ruse. So Mr. Broidy’s lawyers sent a subpoena to TinyURL asking what other shortened web links the service had provided to the same user over the previous year.The response was 11,000 pages of “gibberish,” said Lee Wolosky, a lawyer for Mr. Broidy, so “we knew we were dealing with a serious player.”Those 11,000 pages contained computer code setting up thousands of bogus web pages intended to trap at least 1,200 targets, and the code for each web page contained the email address of its intended victim. Although it was unclear which targets fell for the trick, the hackers sent repeated emails to those who did not.Lawyers for Mr. Broidy argued in court filings that the hackers who had stolen his emails almost always hid their location, but at one point they appeared briefly to have operated from a telecommunications network in Qatar. The government of Qatar has said it was not responsible.Jassim Bin Mansour Al-Thani, media attaché for the Qatar Embassy in Washington, said Thursday in a statement that the assertions of Mr. Broidy’s lawyers were “weak supposition and conjecture.”Now the new list of targets that the lawyers say they have identified adds other suggestive details to the claim.At least 19 of the hackers’ targets were senior officials or prominent citizens of the U.A.E., including diplomats whose emails have previously been leaked to the public.At least 15 of the targets are senior officials or diplomats from Egypt, a close ally of the U.A.E. and a foe of Qatar. Among the Egyptian targets was Gen. Abbas Kamel, now the director of the Egyptian Intelligence Service and previously the chief of staff to President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi. Several embarrassing audio recordings from Mr. Kamel’s office have leaked through Islamist media, leading to speculation about spying by some foreign government sympathetic to Islamists — possibly Qatar.At least two of the targets were American former employees of the Glover Park Group, a Washington public affairs firm that has worked for the U.A.E.Several other targets were outspoken critics of Qatar, including the American Rabbi Shmuley Boteach, the British-based commentator Amjad Taha Yassin and the former Dutch intelligence analyst Ronald Sandee.Others, however, were not obvious antagonists of Qatar. Another, Kristin Wood, is a former official of the C.I.A. who is now an adviser to a private security company that is part of DynCorp, which had worked for the U.A.E. But there is no indication she was involved in that work or any other project that might have drawn Qatar’s interest. It is possible that hackers were hired to carry out many attacks for multiple clients.The Bollywood targets — including the stars Aishwarya Devan, Anushka Sharma, Meghanna Raj and Nikki Galrani — suggest the hackers may have been fans, the lawyers said. “My guess is this was a frolic of the hackers,” Mr. Wolosky said.In his opinion dismissing Mr. Broidy’s claim against Qatar, Judge John F. Walker of the district court for central California noted “the growing prevalence of attacks in cyberspace” and suggested that “it may be an appropriate time for Congress to consider a cyberattack exception” to sovereign immunity. North Korea and Russia also have been accused of conducting such attacks on American citizens.Whatever the outcome in the courts, Mr. Wolosky argued, “we have evidence that establishes in the court of public opinion what really happened.”Adam Goldman contributed reporting.

Supported byNews AnalysisBy David E. SangerMr. Sanger is a national security correspondent for The Times.WASHINGTON — Ask finance ministers and central bankers around the world about their worst nightmare and the answer is almost always the same: Sometime soon the North Koreans or the Russians will improve on the two huge cyberattacks they pulled off last year. One temporarily crippled the British health care system and the other devastated Ukraine before rippling across the world, disrupting shipping and shutting factories — a billion-dollar cyberattack the White House called “the most destructive and costly in history.”The fact that no intelligence agency saw either attack coming — and that countries were so fumbling in their responses — led a group of finance ministers to simulate a similar attack that shut down financial markets and froze global transactions. By several accounts, it quickly spun into farce: No one wanted to admit how much damage could be done or how helpless they would be to deter it.Cyberattacks have been around for two decades, appearing in plotlines from “Die Hard” movies to the new novel by Bill Clinton and James Patterson. But in the real world, something has changed since 2008, when the United States and Israel mounted the most sophisticated cyberattack in history on Iran’s nuclear program, temporarily crippling it in hopes of forcing Iran to the bargaining table. (The two countries never acknowledged responsibility for the attack.)As President Barack Obama once feared, a cyberarms race of historic but hidden proportions has taken off. In less than a decade, the sophistication of cyberweapons has so improved that many of the attacks that once shocked us — like the denial-of-service attacks Iran mounted against Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase and other banks in 2012, or  North Korea’s hacking of Sony in 2014 — look like tiny skirmishes compared with the daily cybercombat of today.Yet in this arms race, the United States has often been its own worst enemy. Because our government has been so incompetent at protecting its highly sophisticated cyberweapons, those weapons have been stolen out of the electronic vaults of the National Security Agency and the C.I.A. and shot right back at us. That’s what happened with the WannaCry ransomware attack by North Korea last year, which used some of the sophisticated tools the N.S.A. had developed. No wonder the agency has refused to admit that the weapons were made in America: It raised the game of its attackers.Nuclear weapons are still the ultimate currency of national power, as the meeting between President Trump and Kim Jong-un in Singapore last week showed. But they cannot be used without causing the end of human civilization — or at least of a regime. So it’s no surprise that hackers working for North Korea, Iran’s mullahs, Vladimir V. Putin in Russia and the People’s Liberation Army of China have all learned that the great advantage of cyberweapons is that they are the opposite of a nuke: hard to detect, easy to deny and increasingly finely targeted. And therefore, extraordinarily hard to deter.That is why cyberweapons have emerged as such effective tools for states of all sizes: a way to disrupt and exercise power or influence without starting a shooting war. Cyberattacks have long been hard to stop because determining where they come from takes time — and sometimes the mystery is never solved. But even as the United States has gotten better at attributing attacks, its responses have failed to keep pace.Today cyberattackers believe there is almost no risk that the United States or any other power would retaliate with significant sanctions, much less bombs, troops or even a counter cyberattack. And though Secretary of Defense Jim Mattis has said the United States should be prepared to use nuclear weapons to deter a huge non-nuclear attack, including using cyberweapons, against its electric grid and other infrastructure, most experts consider the threat hollow.At his confirmation hearings in March to become director of the N.S.A. and commander of the United States Cyber Command, Gen. Paul Nakasone was asked whether our adversaries think they will suffer if they strike us with cyberweapons. “They don’t fear us,” General Nakasone replied.So while the United States remains the greatest cyberpower on earth, it is increasingly losing daily cyberconflicts. The range of American targets is so wide and deep that it is almost impossible to understand all of the vulnerabilities. And because most of those targets don’t belong to the government — banks, power grids, shipping systems, hospitals and internet-linked security cameras, cars and appliances — confusion reigns over who is responsible for defending them and who will decide when to strike back. We have the most fearsome cyberweaponry on the planet, yet we’re afraid to use it for fear of what will come next.Consider the Russian cyberattacks that preceded the well-known hacking of the Democratic National Committee’s computers in 2015 and 2016. Just before, Russian hackers had taken up residence in the unclassified servers at the State Department and the White House, and later deep inside the systems of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.At the State Department, the eviction took weeks, shutting down systems during negotiations on the Iran nuclear deal. The hackers were even bolder at the White House. Instead of disappearing when they were exposed, they fought back, looking to install new malware as soon as the old versions were neutralized. “It was basically hand-to-hand combat,” recalled Richard Ledgett, the deputy director of the N.S.A. at the time. It appears the attackers just wanted to prove they could go, and stay, anywhere in the American government’s network.Yet out of a reflexive secrecy about cyberoperations — motivated by an unwillingness to acknowledge both our vulnerabilities and our detection abilities — the United States never called out the Russians for what they were doing. Nor did we exact any punishment. That proved to be a huge mistake.If Mr. Putin thought there was no price to be paid for invading White House systems, why wouldn’t he attack the Democratic National Committee? And as the Russian attacks continued, no one in the American government detected the larger pattern or Russia’s ambitions to affect the election. Most officials assumed it was plain old espionage.“It wasn’t that we had our radar off to these kinds of attacks,” a senior official told me. “We hadn’t even built the radar.”By the summer of 2016, some Obama administration officials, waking to the threat, proposed counterstrikes that included exposing Mr. Putin’s hidden bank accounts and his ties to the oligarchs and cutting off Russia’s banking system. But the potential for escalation caused Mr. Obama and his top aides to reject the plan.“It was an enormously satisfying response,” a senior American official told me later, “until we began to think about what it would do to the Europeans.”Mr. Obama also understandably feared that anything the United States did might provoke Mr. Putin to tinker with election systems just enough to give credence to Donald Trump’s warning that the system was “rigged.”Since the election, the American retaliation has included closing some Russian consulates and recreation centers and expelling spies — actions one Obama national security official called “the perfect 19th-century solution to a 21st-century problem.” President Trump has signed off on some additional economic sanctions against individual Russians.But the United States’ problem isn’t toughness — it’s an absence of strategy. The larger lesson of the past few years is that unless we get smarter a lot faster about deterring these pernicious, hard-to-find forms of cyberaggression, much of what binds our digitally connected society will be eaten away. We have spent so much time worrying about a “cyber Pearl Harbor,’’ the attack that takes out the power grid, that we have focused far too little on the subtle manipulation of data that can mean that no election, medical record or self-driving car can be truly trusted. And ultimately that absence of trust will destroy the glue of American society the way the Stuxnet computer worm destroyed those Iranian centrifuges. It will cause them to spin out of control.So what is to be done?First, the United States must significantly improve its cyberdefenses. The wide-open vulnerabilities in America’s networks have essentially deterred the United States from credibly threatening retaliation against the Russians, the Chinese, the North Koreans and the Iranians. One way to start is to make sure no new equipment goes on the market unless it meets basic security requirements. We won’t let cars on the road without airbags, so why do we do less with the systems that connect them to the internet?Second, we must decide what networks we care most about defending — and make those priorities clear. Mr. Mattis’s threat to turn to nuclear weapons hardly seems credible — unless the cyberattack would create an existential threat to America. That requires an intensive public review of what is critical to our nation’s survival. President Trump forfeited the perfect opportunity when he decided against a commission to learn the larger lessons from the 2016 election. Our politics have gotten in the way of our safety.Finally, the United States needs to end the reflexive secrecy surrounding its cyberoperations. We need to explain to the world why we have cyberweapons, what they are capable of and, most important, what we will not use them for. Clearly, it is in the nation’s interests to develop global norms clarifying that some targets are off limits: election systems, hospitals and emergency communications systems, and maybe even electric power grids and other civilian targets.Microsoft’s president, Brad Smith, has proposed digital Geneva Conventions that begin to establish those norms, outside the structure of governments and treaties. It’s an imperfect solution, but a start. Intelligence agencies hate this idea: They want the most latitude possible for future operations in an uncertain world. But in any arms control negotiation, to create limits on others, you need to give up something. Otherwise, we will remain trapped in an endlessly escalating war, one we may well lose.David E. Sanger is a national security correspondent for The New York Times. This article is adapted from his forthcoming book, “The Perfect Weapon: War, Sabotage and Fear in the Cyber Age.”Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. OpinionJared Cohen

Supported byRuna Sandvik believes information security can fit into reporters’ lives seamlessly and conveniently.By Melina DelkicTimes Insider delivers behind-the-scenes insights into how news, features and opinion come together at The New York Times.Runa Sandvik has slowly persuaded everyone in her life to download Signal, the encrypted messaging app often hailed as the gold standard for privacy: family, friends, co-workers — even Uber drivers.She always personalizes her appeals: To her friends, she says, “It’s free!” To reporters, she points out that it will protect their sources. Whoever her subjects happen to be, Ms. Sandvik wants to help them fit information security into their lives without having to think about it.“I have personally always said that my job is to help you do your job securely,” Ms. Sandvik said, “so that you don’t have to think about all of this stuff. It’s just done. It’s taken care of. It’s safe by default.”Ms. Sandvik, on the other hand, is the senior director of information security for The New York Times. She spends a lot of time thinking about all of this stuff.She has written about encryption tools and a dark web email service for Forbes. The URL of her personal website is encrypted.cc. She once threw a CryptoParty with Edward Snowden in Hawaii. And today, she is known for spearheading security improvements at The Times, including two-factor authentication for reporters, which requires an additional verification method after entering a password; a confidential page for tips from sources; secure communication methods; protection for Times subscriber accounts; and more.It all started in Norway, when Ms. Sandvik got her first computer at age 15. She became obsessed with the endless puzzles and challenges within: how the computer worked, how it didn’t work, and especially how to break its functions and make it do things it wasn’t supposed to do. “The interest for me at that point, early on, was just to soak up as much info as I could, just learn how things work, learn how things fall apart,” she said. This led her to the hacker space.It wasn’t until she started work for the Tor Project, a nonprofit digital privacy group that often trains journalists, that she changed the way she thought about what computers could do for people.She recalled beginning to ask herself, “What are ways that I can take what I know about information security, and about hacking — the ways you would go after a reporter, for example — and use that to support and defend and empower the people, as opposed to just figuring out how to break stuff?”Since coming to The Times in March 2016, she has continued to ask herself that question and to weave her background into the way the newsroom functions. “One of the first things I noticed about Runa when I started working with her was how much she cares for what she does and for the mission of The Times,” said Bill McKinley, her boss and the executive director of information security at The Times. When they meet with reporters for new projects, he said, “she lights up.”And what she does is increasingly crucial.Cyberattacks — and cyberattacks against journalists, specifically — are on the rise, Ms. Sandvik said.“If you had asked me a year ago, I probably would’ve said no, the only difference is that we’re paying more attention now,” she said. “In the past year, that has certainly changed. I think that we are seeing not necessarily new types of attacks, but a type of persistence and an escalation that we haven’t seen before.”Those attacks can include trolling, threats and harassment, as well as persistent and innovative phishing emails that can look as if they come from other colleagues within the newsroom or even friends outside of work. And once a hacker gets a journalist’s user names and passwords, “there’s nothing that you can do to get that data back,” she said.A project Ms. Sandvik worked on that readers may recognize is The Times’s tips line, a page that allows people to send confidential tips to Times journalists. When the F.B.I. raided Michael D. Cohen’s office, for example, it was a tip to The Times’s investigations desk, via encrypted email, that allowed us to break the story first. More recently, a story emerged from a tip from Deloitte employees about their petition to management to stop working with the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency. The Times still gets more than 50 tips a day. “It’s changed how the newsroom works,” said Gabriel Dance, the deputy investigations editor. And even for less flashy projects, like tweaks in communication methods for journalists, Ms. Sandvik’s work doesn’t go unnoticed.“She’s had to help us think really creatively about how to stay secure while also staying flexible to working in a newsroom,” he said. “It’s the coaching she gives to investigative reporters on how best to protect themselves and protect their sources.”Around the newsroom, she’s also known for her stealthy fake phishing emails (modeled to appear to come from colleagues but, upon closer examination, actually sent from an external email address), often requesting employees’ information and aiming to see who falls for it. For the small number who open attachments or enter their user names and passwords, Ms. Sandvik and her team reach out to them for follow-up training.Outside The Times, she is well regarded in the information security community, Mr. McKinley said. She frequently attends conferences, speaks at events and hosts CryptoParties, or events that aim to educate people about digital security in an accessible way (two weeks ago, she co-hosted a Times-sponsored CryptoParty). Her friends see her as a tough stalwart of a male-dominated industry.“Sometimes men get the idea that they can bully this tiny Norwegian woman, and that they can push her around,” said Eva Galperin, a friend of Ms. Sandvik’s who also works in information security, as the director of cybersecurity for the Electronic Frontier Foundation. “And she will not move.”The two often trade war stories and tips on instituting new security features in the workplace. One of her favorite stories about Ms. Sandvik took place during Def Con, a convention for hackers and security experts, when Ms. Sandvik and her husband presented their research on how to hack and disable a sniper rifle. “It was the very first time I had ever seen coverage of a man and a woman doing security research together, and the woman got all the credit and the man was a footnote,” Ms. Galperin laughed. “I can tell you, that almost never happens.” As for Ms. Sandvik, she knows her industry is dominated by men, but she said it had never really gotten in her way.“It’s kind of interesting that security is in her title,” Mr. Dance said, “because she is like a security blanket. She makes us feel more comfortable that no matter what file or source or situation we find ourselves in, we can go to Runa.”Keep up with Times Insider stories on Twitter, via the Reader Center: @ReaderCenter.Melina Delkic is a senior staff editor.  @MelinaDelkic 

Supported byBy David E. SangerWASHINGTON — State-sponsored Russian hackers appear far more interested this year in demonstrating that they can disrupt the American electric utility grid than the midterm elections, according to United States intelligence officials and technology company executives.Despite attempts to infiltrate the online accounts of two Senate Democrats up for re-election, intelligence officials said they have seen little activity by Russian military hackers aimed at either major American political figures or state voter registration systems.By comparison, according to intelligence officials and executives of the companies that oversee the world’s computer networks, there is surprisingly far more effort directed at implanting malware in the electrical grid.The officials spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss intelligence findings, but their conclusions were confirmed by several executives of technology and technology security firms.This week, the Department of Homeland Security reported that over the last year, Russia’s military intelligence agency had infiltrated the control rooms of power plants across the United States. In theory, that could enable it to take control of parts of the grid by remote control.While the department cited “hundreds of victims” of the attacks, far more than they had previously acknowledged, there is no evidence that the hackers tried to take over the plants, as Russian actors did in Ukraine in 2015 and 2016.In interviews, American intelligence officials said that the department had understated the scope of the threat. So far the White House has said little about the intrusions other than raise the fear of such breaches to maintain old coal plants in case they are needed to recover from a major attack.On Friday, President Trump was briefed on government efforts to protect the coming midterm elections from what a White House statement described as “malign foreign actors.” It said it was giving cybersecurity support to state and local governments to protect their election systems.“The president has made it clear that his administration will not tolerate foreign interference in our elections from any nation state to other malicious actors,” the statement said.It is possible that Russian hackers are holding their fire until closer to Election Day in November. Given the indictments this month of 12 Russian military officers who are accused of American election interference, the agency once known as the G.R.U. may be all too aware it is being closely watched by the National Security Agency and other American intelligence services.But that has not completely deterred Russia’s intelligence agencies from targeting politicians.Microsoft announced at a security conference last week that it stopped an attack last fall aimed at congressional staff offices. While the company did not identify who was targeted, Senator Claire McCaskill, Democrat of Missouri, who faces a tight race for re-election, said on Thursday night that her office had been struck in what she called an unsuccessful attack.She acknowledged the breach only after The Daily Beast identified her as one of the lawmakers whose offices had been the target of an effort to obtain passwords.“Russia continues to engage in cyberwarfare against our democracy,” Ms. McCaskill said in a statement. “While this attack was not successful, it is outrageous that they think they can get away with this. I will not be intimidated.”American officials said it was unclear whether the attack was related to Ms. McCaskill’s re-election bid. She serves on the Senate Armed Services Committee, and one senior official said it was possible that the hackers were seeking a way into the panel’s access to classified military operations and budgets.Officials of Microsoft, which detected the intrusion in October and November, agreed.“When we see an attempt like this, we have no way of discerning what the attacker’s motivation is,” Tom Burt, the vice president for customer security and trust at Microsoft, said on Friday.Ms. McCaskill was one of two legislators whose offices Microsoft found were being targeted by the Russian hackers; the company has declined to name the other. (Mr. Burt initially told the Aspen Security Forum last week that three members of Congress had been targeted, but he said on Friday that the many accounts that were targeted now appear to have belonged to employees from only two legislative offices.)Microsoft blocked the attacks with a special court order that allowed it to seize control of internet domains created by Russians that appeared to be official Microsoft sites, but were not. The company has used that procedure at least three times against hackers who are linked to Russian military intelligence.But beyond those attempts, Mr. Burt and several American intelligence officials said there have been surprisingly few cyberattack attempts directed at political leaders, at least compared with 2016.“We are not seeing the level of activity in the midterm elections that we saw two years ago,” Mr. Burt said. “But it is still early.”In part that may be because midterm elections are far more difficult to influence than a presidential race. It would require separate interventions in more than 460 contests, many of which would be of little interest to a foreign power.“I see 2018 as a ramp-up to 2020,’’ said Laura Rosenberger, the director of the Alliance for Securing Democracy at the German Marshall Fund. Ms. Rosenberger, a former State Department official and foreign policy adviser to Hillary Clinton during the 2016 campaign, has been leading one of the most comprehensive efforts to track and expose foreign influence in American elections.She said the Russian intelligence hackers “want to make a highly polarized electorate even more polarized and undermine faith in the election systems.”In a presentation at the Aspen forum, the new chief of the United States Cyber Command spoke at length about a new approach of “persistent engagement” with American adversaries, an effort to see attacks amassing in networks overseas before they strike in the United States.The commander, Gen. Paul M. Nakasone, who is also the director of the National Security Agency, said that he had set up a Russia small group after assuming command in the spring, but said nothing about its operations. The N.S.A. is responsible for defending government networks and conducting covert offensive operations.He spent much of his talk describing the difficulties of countering states that “operate below the threshold level of war,” which is how he and other officials often refer to the Russian efforts to influence the election.Last year, President Trump’s national security adviser, John R. Bolton, called the Russian hacking of the Democratic National Committee during the 2016 election an “act of war.” The hackers are accused of stealing of the committee’s data and then publishing stolen emails through a number of websites, including WikiLeaks.Just as it is difficult to judge the intent of the Russian hackers in attacking Ms. McCaskill’s office, it is hard to fully understand why they have put so much effort into installing “implants” — hard-to-find malware — in the utility operating systems.The fear, of course, is that Russia may be planning to unplug American power systems in a time of conflict. But such an attack would almost certainly result in a military response, as General Nakasone obliquely suggested at the Aspen forum.It is possible that the hackers are simply trying to demonstrate what they are capable of, just as they did in 2014 when they fought the N.S.A.’s efforts to force them from the White House’s unclassified email systems.In the cases described by the Department of Homeland Security, as presented to the electric utilities and outside experts, the Russian hackers went into the power plants through the networks of contractors, some of whom were ill-protected. Those contractors provided software to the utility company’s systems. Then they used “spearphishing” emails, trying to trick utility operators into changing their passwords.That is exactly the approach used against Ms. McCaskill’s staff, the officials said.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.

Supported byBy David E. Sanger and Katie BennerWASHINGTON — The Trump administration ramped up its pressure campaign on Beijing on Thursday, as the Justice Department accused two Chinese nationals with ties to the country’s Ministry of State Security of infiltrating the biggest providers of internet services and boring into government computer systems, including a major Department of Energy laboratory.The indictment of the two men came just months after the Justice Department lured one of the Chinese intelligence agency’s officers to Belgium, where he was arrested and extradited to the United States. Both cases focus on an intelligence effort based in Tianjin to advance Beijing’s economic and geopolitical interests with an extraordinarily broad attack on Western companies and governments.Just as the indictment was unsealed, Britain identified the same intelligence operation, often named APT 10 by cybersecurity firms, as responsible for separate attacks in that country and beyond. The statement from Britain’s Foreign Office was part of a new, collective effort by Western allies to call out China’s attempts to obtain trade secrets and intellectual property through a state-coordinated cyberespionage campaign, according to people involved in the planning. Australia and New Zealand on Friday issued similar statements.The allegations highlight the tension between the United States and China over what the White House says is a brazen effort by the Chinese to obtain Western technology and other proprietary information. The United States formally accused the Chinese of violating a 2015 agreement — brokered by President Barack Obama and President Xi Jinping — to cease economic espionage, saying Chinese hackers have come roaring back after two years of comity.The Justice Department action also comes amid other Trump administration pressure on the Chinese. The United States helped coordinate the arrest of a top executive of Huawei, the Chinese telecom giant, on suspicion of committing fraud related to sanctions against Iran. Her arrest, while she was changing planes in Canada, has set off a geopolitical standoff, with China arresting three Canadians on its own soil.Last week, American investigators said that a long-running hack of Starwood Hotels, now part of Marriott International, was a Chinese intelligence-gathering operation. And the United States has taken steps to block Chinese investment and student enrollments in the United States.It is not clear how, if at all, the latest indictment will affect Mr. Trump’s effort to reach a trade agreement with Mr. Xi that would end an escalating tariff war between the world’s two largest economies. The United States has set a March 2 deadline to reach agreement with Beijing on a range of issues, including what the White House says is a pattern in which China has pressured American companies to hand over valuable technology and trade secrets as a condition of doing business there.China’s Foreign Ministry said in a statement on its website that it does not support stealing trade secrets and that the move “seriously violates the basic norms of international relations and has severely damaged Sino-U.S. cooperation.”It said that American monitoring of foreign governments, businesses and individuals has long been an “open secret.”The statement was a reminder of how cyberspace has become a primary battleground between the two nations.The indictment unsealed on Thursday describes the broad outlines of what it calls a yearslong campaign by China to steal American technological secrets in a range of industries to allow Beijing’s companies to undercut international competitors and help its military erode the United States’ defensive edge. That echoes a previous indictment against officers of the People’s Liberation Army in 2014, who were charged with stealing a variety of industrial secrets. Safely ensconced in China, none of them have ever been arrested or brought to trial.In the new case, the government said it had charged two Chinese nationals, Zhu Hua and Zhang Shilong, with conspiracy to hack into computer systems and commit wire fraud and identity theft. The government accused them of targeting unnamed aviation, telecommunications, pharmaceutical and satellite companies, and said several government entities were attacked, including the Navy and NASA’s Goddard Space Flight Center and Jet Propulsion Laboratory.The indictment does not describe any specific technology stolen by the group but said they “successfully obtained unauthorized access” to a range of entities, including the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, an Energy Department lab in California.Security firms have been tracking the Chinese hackers, Mr. Zhu, also called “Godkiller,” and Mr. Zhang, also called “Baobeilong,” for 13 years, under various names including APT10 and Stone Panda. At the National Security Agency, intelligence analysts tracked the two, along with a third Chinese hacker, whom they called “Legion Opal.” All targeted an exhaustive list of individuals and companies in aerospace and defense, naval, energy, natural resources, automotive, electronic and government sectors, as well as the occasional Chinese dissident.But as recently as 2013, intelligence officials were not sure what to make of the hackers’ relationship to Chinese state officials. All three were based in Tianjin, and that year, a classified intelligence assessment was vague in describing any tie to Beijing. The “exact affiliation with Chinese government entities is not known, but their activities indicate a probable intelligence requirement feed,” one N.S.A. document obtained by The New York Times said.The hackers worked for private tech companies, but their targets — particularly in aerospace and defense — were of value to China’s civilian spy agency. Other targets in the energy, automotive, electronic and national resources industries closely aligned with China’s economic priorities.“This is outright cheating and theft, and it gives China an unfair advantage at the expense of law-abiding businesses and countries that follow the international rules in return for the privilege of participating in the global economic system,” Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general, said at a news conference.APT10 has rapidly changed its approaches and technology after private cybersecurity firms discovered its attacks. It constantly shifted its internet protocol, or IP, addresses to avoid detection and bypass security filters, the indictment alleged, allowing it to remain on its victims’ systems far longer.Between 2006 and 2018, according to the indictment, the APT10 group hacked computers in at least a dozen countries and broke into companies and the American government to steal information and data on various technologies.Beginning in 2014, APT10 began to target companies that provide computer services like cloud computing and networking support. It penetrated those networks and stole confidential business data from companies around the world, the indictment says.In doing so, the administration said, Beijing violated its 2015 agreement not to steal American technological secrets. Not only did it use the stolen information to give its companies a competitive advantage, but it also used the intelligence to rapidly advance the capabilities of the People’s Liberation Army as it worked to increase its influence in the Pacific region.In addition to its corporate espionage, the group compromised the Navy’s computer systems, downloading the private information of more than 100,000 Navy personnel, the Justice Department said.“China stands accused of engaging in criminal activity that victimizes individuals and companies in the United States, violates our laws and departs from international norms of state behavior,” Mr. Rosenstein said.He accused China of trying to “dominate” other countries through economic espionage, and said the response “requires a strategic, whole-of-government approach to the threats that China poses.”The legal assault on China comes as Mr. Trump tries to end a trade war with Beijing that has begun inflicting economic harm on both sides of the Pacific. But while the administration has tried to divorce trade talks from law enforcement actions, Mr. Trump has eagerly conflated the two, potentially complicating an already complex negotiation.Mr. Trump has suggested that he could intervene in the Huawei case if it would help secure a trade agreement with China. And he previously intervened in another sanctions case involving a Chinese telecom firm, ZTE, which had been barred from buying American components after China’s president, Mr. Xi, personally appealed to the president.Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, said he was “cautiously optimistic” that the charges against Chinese hackers would not derail the trade negotiations. He said that while cybersecurity had been discussed, this specific situation had not been raised.Nicole Perlroth contributed reporting from San Francisco.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.

Supported byBy David E. Sanger and Katie BennerWASHINGTON — North Korea engaged in a yearslong effort to hack into American companies and steal from financial institutions around the globe, the Justice Department charged on Thursday in a 174-page criminal complaint that detailed how hackers caused hundreds of millions of dollars’ worth of damage to the global economy.Only one North Korean, Park Jin-hyok, was named — charged with computer fraud and wire fraud in the 2014 hack of Sony Pictures Entertainment. But the complaint described a team of hackers for North Korea’s main intelligence agency, in many cases operating out of China and other Asian nations, who crippled Britain’s health care system in last year’s WannaCry attack and stole $81 million from the Bangladeshi central bank — a heist that would have reaped $1 billion, save for a spelling error — before turning to vulnerable institutions from Vietnam to South Africa.North Korea seemed primarily motivated by its continuing need for cash, as other countries have refused to do business with Pyongyang, and a desire to control American corporate behavior through fear. WannaCry presented the possibility that the North also wanted to sow chaos.The complaint was the most specific public accounting yet of North Korea’s cyberattacks against other countries. The Justice Department has now brought charges against state actors from North Korea, China, Iran and Russia, the United States’ most formidable cyberfoes.[Read the criminal complaint here.]The complaints and indictments have been seen as a key tool in deterring attacks; the Trump administration also imposed sanctions on Mr. Park as part of a broad punishment. But as officials tried to convey that North Korea would pay a high price for hacking American targets, President Trump undercut their effort with a friendly tweet about the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, hours before the complaint was announced.Mr. Trump wrote that Mr. Kim, whom he has sought to engage on nuclear talks, “proclaims ‘unwavering faith in President Trump.’ Thank you to Chairman Kim. We will get it done together!”It was unclear whether Mr. Trump knew about the forthcoming complaint. A Justice Department official would not directly answer when asked whether he was briefed in advance.The complaint against Mr. Park was filed under seal on June 8, just four days before Mr. Trump and Mr. Kim held a historic summit meeting in Singapore.Diplomacy between the two countries has been stalled since, with the president abruptly canceling a trip to North Korea last month by Secretary of State Mike Pompeo. Last week, Mr. Trump accused China of undermining American relations with the North.The complaint described only one side of the yearslong cyberconflict between North Korea and the United States. It made no mention of the American-led attacks on North Korea’s missile program, ordered by President Barack Obama months before the Sony attack. And it omitted the source of some of the weapons in the WannaCry attack, which were leaked or stolen from the National Security Agency, though the United States has not publicly conceded that.Cyberattacks have not been a topic of the recent negotiations with North Korea. But as the complaint makes clear, such weapons have been the North’s primary tool against American targets.“The North Korean government, through a state-sponsored group, robbed a central bank and citizens of other nations, retaliated against free speech in order to chill it half a world away, and created disruptive malware that indiscriminately affected victims in more than 150 other countries, causing hundreds of millions, if not billions, of dollars’ worth of damage,” John C. Demers, the head of the Justice Department’s National Security Division, said in a statement.“These charges will send a message that we will track down malicious actors no matter how or where they hide,” he added.Mr. Park, who also went by the alias Pak Jin Hek, is unlikely to see the inside of an American courtroom. The United States has no direct, formal relations with North Korea and did not communicate with its reclusive government ahead of the charges.Adding him to the Treasury Department’s sanctions list means that no financial institution that does business in the United States can also do business with or provide accounts to Mr. Park or Chosun Expo Joint Venture, the company he worked for that American officials said was a front for the government. He actually appeared to work for North Korea’s Reconnaissance General Bureau, the country’s closest equivalent to the C.I.A., intelligence officials said.The sanctions are unlikely to have much effect on Mr. Park and are a less powerful tool than the criminal charges in ensuring that Mr. Park cannot travel far outside North Korea and outing him as a state-sponsored hacker.“The currency of cyberhackers, whether individuals or nation states, is their anonymity,” said David Hickton, the former United States attorney in Pittsburgh who oversaw a groundbreaking case against members of the Chinese military accused of cyberattacks. “Unmasking them has value in and of itself.”In its complaint, the government mapped out a yearslong, brazen scheme to undermine institutions around the world and steal millions of dollars.North Korea broke into the systems of Sony Pictures Entertainment in late 2014 in retaliation for the company’s production of a comedic film, “The Interview,” that mocked Mr. Kim and depicted a plot to assassinate him.The attack wiped out 70 percent of the studio’s computer capability, erasing all the data on about half of the company’s personal computers and more than half of its servers. Sony was left without voice mail, email or production systems, essentially crippling operations.Vast amounts of stolen Sony files were publicly revealed — emails, contracts, salary lists, film budgets, medical records, digital copies of five movies. Amy Pascal, then the studio’s top film executive, lost her job.A month later, the F.B.I. pinned the crime on North Korea and the White House soon imposed sanctions on the country.The crime underscored how vulnerable the United States had become to cybercriminals and how malicious actors far away could cripple American corporations. Hackers from China, Russia and elsewhere would soon infiltrate other high-profile targets including  the Office of Personnel Management, the White House email system and the I.R.S.Mr. Park and the other North Korean hackers would go on to engage in cyberattacks around the globe.From 2015 through 2018, they attacked banks to amass funds for North Korea, according to the complaint. They infiltrated Bangladesh Bank in 2016 by sending malware-ridden emails to employees, a practice known as phishing, and eventually gained access to computers connected to the global banking communication system.They directed the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to transfer money from Bangladesh Bank to accounts in other Asian countries, stealing $81 million. Only because an alert official at the reserve bank noticed that the word “foundation” was spelled “fandation” did the transaction get additional scrutiny, and it was halted before more than an additional $900 million was transferred, the complaint said.Over the same time, the North unsuccessfully targeted American defense contractors, including Lockheed Martin, with spear-phishing emails, in which malicious files or links are sent in a seemingly innocuous message.The complaint gave the most detailed technical accounting yet of how the crippling WannaCry malware made its way around the globe. It also made clear that the malware turned into an unguided missile — in which the British health care system, which used outdated Microsoft operating systems, turned out to be especially vulnerable.It acknowledged that some of the code, originally from the National Security Agency, was published by a group calling itself the Shadow Brokers. But the code’s American roots went unmentioned in the complaint — in essence, an extension of the American government’s position that the North, rather than the American code makers who lost their weapons, bore complete responsibility for the attack.North Korea operated relatively freely in China, according to the complaint. Chosun Expo Joint Venture helped fund North Korean hacking organizations by doing legitimate programming work from an office in Dalian, China, a coastal city near North Korea. Some customers knew the employees “were North Korean computer programmers connected to the government,” the complaint said.Mr. Park, who worked there from 2011 to 2013, and his colleagues were overseen by a company manager and North Korean political attaché́, the Justice Department said.Even though the Justice Department made clear that many North Koreans were involved in the attacks, only Mr. Park was charged because the government apparently believed it had evidence to convict only him beyond a reasonable doubt, said John Carlin, the former head of the Justice Department’s National Security Division.The Justice Department said the investigation is continuing. The indictment took years to put together, in part because it covers multiple hacking campaigns and because the government cannot use classified information when it brings a criminal case against a nation-state.“In order to get admissible evidence,” Mr. Carlin said, “prosecutors have to work through any issues the intelligence community might have.”Adam Goldman contributed reporting from Washington, and Brooks Barnes from Los Angeles.Get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.video

Supported byBy Jacey FortinHundreds of prison inmates in Idaho found a way to add hundreds of thousands of dollars worth of credit to their personal accounts, officials discovered this month.The prisoners were not inflating their bank accounts, but rather their JPay accounts. JPay is a service that inmates can use to communicate with the outside world; for example, by using secure tablets or kiosks to send emails or listen to music.The Idaho Department of Correction learned about the hacking on July 2, and an investigation revealed that 364 inmates at five correctional facilities “had improperly credited their JPay accounts by $224,772.40,” Jeff Ray, the department’s spokesman, said in a statement.“This conduct was intentional, not accidental,” he said. “It required a knowledge of the JPay system and multiple actions by every inmate who exploited the system’s vulnerability to improperly credit their account.”The inmates inflated their accounts by taking advantage of a quirk in the system that did not cost taxpayers money. Of the 364 inmates, 50 credited their accounts with more than $1,000 apiece, and one person managed to accumulate nearly $10,000.In recent years, tablets designed for prison use have become increasingly popular. JPay is one of the country’s biggest prison financial services providers and has business in dozens of states. Inmates can use JPay to communicate with family members via emails, video calls and money transfers. Some can also access music, simple games or reading materials.“While the vast majority of individuals use our secure technology appropriately, we are continually working to improve our products to prevent any attempts at misuse,” Jade Trombetta, the company’s spokeswoman, said in an email on Thursday.“In this case, a number of individuals were found to have improperly credited their accounts, creating credits that could be used to purchase content. Once the issue was discovered it was quickly corrected.”Tablets have been marketed as a way to incentivize good behavior. But the companies that offer them have also been criticized for profiting from a captive market; when prisoners or their correspondents have to pay to communicate, the costs can add up. In 2014, a review by The New York Times of dozens of contracts found that states, counties and cities were seeking a substantial cut in return for letting such service businesses into prisons.The state’s Department of Correction said that JPay had recovered more than $65,000 worth of improper credits, and the department had charged inmates with disciplinary offenses that could temporarily revoke privileges or tighten security for some.“JPay has also suspended the ability of the inmates to download music and games until they compensate JPay for its losses,” Mr. Ray said. “The inmates are still able to use JPay to send and receive email.”OpinionChandra Bozelko

Supported byBy Eileen Sullivan, Noah Weiland and Kate CongerWASHINGTON — The suspected hacking attempt of the Democratic National Committee’s voter database this week was a false alarm, and the unusual activity that raised concern was merely a test, party officials said on Thursday.The blunder was caused by a lack of communication between the national committee and one of its state branches, the officials said. The Michigan Democratic Party had hired hackers to simulate an attack known as phishing, but did not inform the national committee.The Michigan Democratic Party’s test had attributes similar to an actual hacking, said Bob Lord, the national committee’s chief security officer. When the Democratic National Committee was contacted by cybersecurity experts this week about the activity, it notified the F.B.I. out of fears that it was another Russian attempt to penetrate the committee, as Moscow did during the 2016 presidential campaign.The jolts of panic caused by what turned out to be an intraparty action underscored the fear of another major breach of the party’s systems just weeks before the midterm elections, even as computer security has been made a priority and shored up since 2016. American intelligence officials have said there continue to be real threats from Russia to interfere in American elections.“There are constant attempts to hack the D.N.C. and our Democratic infrastructure, and while we are extremely relieved that this wasn’t an attempted intrusion by a foreign adversary, this incident is further proof that we need to continue to be vigilant in light of potential attacks,” Mr. Lord said in a statement.Brandon Dillon, chairman of the Michigan Democratic Party, called the situation a “misstep” and said it was part of efforts to improve cybersecurity “especially as the Trump administration refuses to crack down on foreign interference in our elections.”“In an abundance of caution, our digital partners ran tests that followed extensive training,” he added.In 2016, Russian state-backed operatives penetrated the Democratic National Committee using a phishing campaign, in which hackers create website login pages that appear to be legitimate to trick unsuspecting users into giving up their user names and passwords. Hackers can then use the stolen credentials to log in to systems like email or voter registration databases.Now campaigns often test their employees with phishing simulations like the one conducted by the Michigan party, in which it had third parties set up a fake page that mimicked the party’s login page for its voter-registration website.That page was detected late Monday by the cybersecurity firm Lookout, which informed the Democratic National Committee. The fake page appeared to be aimed at hacking the Democratic National Committee’s Votebuilder database, which Mr. Lord has referred to as “the party’s most sensitive information.”The database is a particular prize for hackers because it contains personal details on Democratic voters that could be used to unlock other information, including personal email accounts and computer files. Its successful penetration could have set off other hacking in a domino effect, cybersecurity experts said.“Phishing attacks to get credentials or install malware are the ammunition that’s currently being used to attack our election systems,” said Joseph Lorenzo Hall, an election security expert and the chief technologist of the Center for Democracy and Technology.In an interview, Mr. Lord said that the fake page did not contain any educational features — leading the Democratic National Committee to believe it was an actual hacking attempt rather than a test.“It very closely mimicked the infrastructure you’d see actual hackers using,” he said. “At the time that it was detected by outside parties, it did not exhibit any of the characteristics of a training system.”The committee’s incident response plan requires it to notify law enforcement in the event of a hacking attempt. “It’s important for me to make sure that when we believe that we are the victim of a criminal act, that we take appropriate action and involve law enforcement,” Mr. Lord said.Mike Murray, the head of security intelligence at Lookout, said it was essential that the activity was caught, even if it was benign.“You don’t know that it’s a false alarm until you show up with the ladders and the fire trucks and the hoses,” he said. “Our goal is to detect bad people doing bad things, regardless of whether that’s crime or espionage or some kid messing around. We don’t want anybody to be attacked.”With the midterms just over 70 days from now, political groups and systems administrators have been on high alert about hacks and foreign meddling.Microsoft recently detected that hackers tied to Russian intelligence targeted the Senate and conservative think tanks in the United States by creating fake websites. Last month, Facebook discovered a political influence campaign directed at disrupting the coming elections. And this week, the social media giant said it had found other disinformation efforts outside the United States.Follow Eileen Sullivan, Noah Weiland and Kate Conger on Twitter: @esullivannyt and @noahweiland and @kateconger.Eileen Sullivan and Noah Weiland reported from Washington, and Kate Conger from San Francisco.

Supported byNews AnalysisBy Scott ShaneMr. Shane is a reporter in the Washington bureau of The New York Times.WASHINGTON — For decades, leakers of confidential information to the press were a genus that included many species: the government worker infuriated by wrongdoing, the ideologue pushing a particular line, the politico out to savage an opponent. In recent years, technology has helped such leakers operate on a mass scale: Chelsea Manning and the WikiLeaks diplomatic cables, Edward Snowden and the stolen National Security Agency archive, and the still-anonymous source of the Panama Papers.But now this disparate cast has been joined by a very different sort of large-scale leaker, more stealthy and better funded: the intelligence services of nation states, which hack into troves of documents and then use a proxy to release them. What Russian intelligence did with shocking success to the Democrats in 2016 shows every promise of becoming a common tool of spycraft around the world.In 2014, North Korea, angry about a movie, hacked Sony and aired thousands of internal emails. Since then, Russia has used the hack-leak method in countries across Europe. The United Arab Emirates and Qatar, Persian Gulf rivals, have accused each other of tit-for-tat hacks, leaks and online sabotage. Other spy services are suspected in additional disclosures, but spies are skilled at hiding their tracks.“It’s clear that nation states are looking at these mass leaks and seeing how successful they are,” said Matt Tait, a cyber expert at the University of Texas who previously worked at Government Communications Headquarters, the British equivalent of the National Security Agency.What does this mean for journalism? The old rules say that if news organizations obtain material they deem both authentic and newsworthy, they should run it. But those conventions may set reporters up for spy agencies to manipulate what and when they publish, with an added danger: An archive of genuine material may be seeded with slick forgeries.This quandary is raised with emotional force by my colleague Amy Chozick in her new book about covering Hillary Clinton. She recounts reading a New York Times story about the Russian hack of the Democrats that said The Times and other outlets, by publishing stories based on the hacked material, became “a de facto instrument of Russian intelligence.” She felt terrible, she reports, because she thought she was guilty as charged.Others hurried to reassure Ms. Chozick that she and hundreds of other reporters who covered the leaked emails were simply doing their jobs. “The primary question a journalist must ask himself is whether or not the information is true and relevant,” wrote Jack Shafer, the media critic for Politico, “and certainly not whether it might make Moscow happy.”I happened to have written the sentence that distressed Ms. Chozick, and I don’t find either her mea culpa or Mr. Shafer’s championing of the old rules fully satisfying. For reporters, withholding valuable information from the public is anathema. But in a world in which foreign intelligence services hack, leak and fabricate, journalists will have to use extreme caution and extra transparency.For the most part, the 2016 stories based on the hacked Democratic emails revealed true and important things, including the party leadership’s hostility to Bernie Sanders’s campaign and the texts of Mrs. Clinton’s private speeches, which she had refused to release.The problem was that Russian hackers chose not to deliver to American voters the same inside material from the Trump campaign. The tilt of the coverage was decided in Moscow. By counting on American reporters to follow their usual rules, the Kremlin hacked American journalism.Yet that sobering experience does not suggest easy remedies. Jack Goldsmith, a former Justice Department official now at Harvard who has written extensively on the press, says he thinks journalists will find it difficult to withhold authentic, compelling material simply because they know or suspect the source is a foreign intelligence service.“It shouldn’t matter whether the source is the Russians or a disgruntled Hillary Clinton campaign worker,” he argues. “Are you going to exclude the Russians? How about the Brazilians? How about the Israelis? I don’t think it’s sustainable for you to draw those distinctions.”But David Pozen, a Columbia law professor who carried out a major study about leaks to the American press, says that hacking has changed the game by allowing foreign governments to collect confidential information wholesale from American institutions.“Let’s say Russian intelligence every Monday sends The New York Times a package of great leaks about U.S. politicians,” Mr. Pozen said. “Would The Times publish it?”Publishing leaks provided by foreign spies “legitimizes and incentivizes hacking,” he said. “I think this makes the ethical calculus for journalists much more complex.” Asked if he had any guidelines in mind, Mr. Pozen demurred. “I don’t think I have great answers,” he said.It is tricky enough when the leaked documents are genuine. But the Russians experimented in 2016 with an even more alarming tactic: altering genuine documents and fabricating others, then releasing them with authentic hacked material.To make a Democratic opposition report on Mr. Trump look alluring, Russian operatives added a “Confidential” stamp to its cover before sharing it. Dumping real documents hacked from the Bradley Foundation, based in Milwaukee, the Russians added a forged letter indicating that the foundation had made an illegal $150 million donation to the Clinton campaign.Fortunately, the forger was ignorant of American politics: The Bradley Foundation is a conservative group that would have no interest in supporting a Democrat, even if it were legal. “It was crazy on its face,” said Rick Graber, the foundation’s president.More insidious was an episode last year in which hackers, possibly working for Russian or Ukrainian intelligence, released thousands of personal text messages of a daughter of Paul Manafort, Mr. Trump’s former campaign manager. The texts appeared to be genuine, and attached to one was a blackmail letter addressed to Mr. Manafort, purportedly from a prominent Ukrainian journalist and member of Parliament, Serhiy A. Leshchenko.Mr. Leshchenko insisted that the letter was a fake and shared technical details with The New York Times that strongly supported that conclusion. But his supposed extortion attempt was reported in the United States, Ukraine and Russia, marring his reputation.Future fabrications will be far more difficult to debunk, including so-called deep fakes, audio and video clips of, say, politicians saying or doing things they never said or did. Intelligence agencies no doubt will be the first to master such tricks.Amid such diabolical possibilities, journalists will have to tread carefully. They can turn to forensic sleuths to test the authenticity and trace the source of leaked material. They can include, high up in every story, a discussion of the likely source of the material and the source’s probable motive. If a leak appears designed to tilt an election, they can point that out, and report aggressively on the other side to minimize the imbalance.Despite the hazards, the imperative to publish scoops is likely to prevail. Far from being wary of leaks, most news outlets are inviting them like never before.In recent years, The Times and many other outlets have added to their web pages a “secure drop” that can offer leakers total anonymity. That may be a crucial attraction for a whistle-blower deep inside an American institution, but it will also protect a hacker sitting in Moscow or Beijing. The reporter may never be the wiser.Scott Shane is a reporter in the Washington bureau of The New York Times, where he writes about national security and other topics.

Supported byBy Nicholas Fandos and Catie EdmondsonWASHINGTON — Faced with new evidence that Russian hackers are targeting conservative American research groups and the Senate’s own web pages, key lawmakers from both parties signaled on Tuesday that they were ready to move forward with punishing new sanctions legislation capable of crippling the Russian economy.And in three separate hearings on Capitol Hill, senators prodded the Trump administration to do more with its existing authorities to deter Russia and protect the United States’ political infrastructure.“Congress is going to act; you might as well know that,” Senator Robert Menendez, Democrat of New Jersey, predicted in a meeting of the Banking Committee, which oversees sanctions law. “I’d rather it act in a way that has your insights about what would be helpful, but if you fail to provide insights then we will provide you with a law that ultimately takes place without your insights.”But administration officials argued that the current sanctions regime provided all the authority they needed, and they dismissed concerns that President Trump’s equivocation on questions of Russian interference had harmed their efforts.“If you look at the wide range of activities that this administration has undertaken under the direction of the president, including the very significant sanctions that we have been able to launch, including the expulsion of 60 Russians out of our country, including the closing of Russian entities in the United States, what Russia sees is a United States that is very aggressively targeting malign activity,” Sigal P. Mandelker, a senior Treasury Department official, told the Banking Committee.The senators’ pleas took on more urgency after Microsoft Corporation revealed on Monday that it had detected and seized websites that were created in recent weeks by hackers linked to the Russian military intelligence unit formerly known as the G.R.U. The sites appeared meant to trick people into thinking they were clicking through links managed by the conservative Hudson Institute and the International Republican Institute, but were secretly redirected to web pages created by the hackers to steal passwords and other credentials.Both institutions have taken aim at Russian corruption, and on Tuesday the Hudson Institute said in a statement that was not the first time an authoritarian government had targeted its work, nor did it expect it to be the last. Microsoft also found websites imitating the United States Senate, but not specific offices or political campaigns.Those revelations came less than a month after Facebook disclosed that it had identified a new, active political influence campaign targeting November’s midterm elections on its network that showed signs of Russian handiwork.“To Republicans, if you think the Russians don’t have you in mind, you are making a great mistake,” Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, said as he led a hearing of the Judiciary subcommittee focused on election security. “They are trying to undermine the democratic process.”On Tuesday, the Treasury Department announced a new round of sanctions targeting ships delivering Russian oil to North Korea despite sanctions and marine companies that are supplying Russia’s military. Ms. Mandelker said to expect additional designations in the coming weeks.But senators were skeptical of the administration’s actions. They questioned the effectiveness of sanctions passed overwhelmingly last year to target Russia’s defense and intelligence sectors, and tried to solicit input from the officials on how to proceed. And with the latest targets being conservative groups, concern could spread.Mr. Graham said efforts to deter Russia had clearly fallen short and called on party leaders to move quickly.Even Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, said he was “personally very interested” in additional bipartisan sanctions legislation, but he cautioned that there may not be time to fully consider it before the election.“The chances of sandwiching that in, honestly, in the month of September with all the other items we have swirling around, is probably pretty slim, but we will be here longer this year,” Mr. McConnell told reporters. “It would be high on the list for consideration for floor time.”Top intelligence and law enforcement officials have repeatedly warned that Russia remains active in American politics and has targeted the midterm elections. All senators were scheduled to receive an additional classified briefing on Wednesday from the homeland security secretary, the director of national intelligence and the F.B.I. director about the Russian threat and what is being done to blunt it.The report from Microsoft sharpened the warnings. It said that the company had identified and shut down several websites linked to a Russian military intelligence unit that set out to influence the 2016 American elections.Amid those warnings and the fallout from Mr. Trump’s July summit meeting with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, senators from both parties have been anxiously debating how to raise the pressure on Moscow.Two approaches dominate the discussion.Senators Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida, and Chris Van Hollen, Democrat of Maryland, have drafted legislation to deter Russia from further interference, putting the Kremlin on notice that the United States will enact broad economic sanctions if it does not stand down before the November elections.The competing bill, written by Mr. Menendez and Mr. Graham, would seek to immediately drop a package of what they call “crushing” new punishments on the country for actions already underway.The Banking Committee appeared ready to sort through the differences.“It’s not often that Congress acts together in such a strong manner, as marked by such near-unanimous votes” last year, said Senator Michael D. Crapo, Republican of Idaho, the committee’s chairman. “But then, Russia is a menace on so many different levels today that Congress can be compelled to act with a single voice to find solutions that will protect America and democratic values across the world.”Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio, the committee’s top Democrat, was more forceful, calling the latest denial by the Kremlin “nonsense” and insisting that Mr. Trump do the same.“Our government — the president and Congress together — must right now send a more powerful and direct message to Putin and those within his circles: We know what you’re doing, it must stop and if you continue, you and your government will pay a dear price,” he said.The hearings were combative at times, with senators venting that administration officials were dodging simple questions.“One of the things I thought would come from this hearing is a recommendation or a set of recommendations of what Congress might consider legislatively for additional sanctions,” Senator Jerry Moran, Republican of Kansas, said at the Banking Committee hearing. “Am I to take from your unwillingness to answer that kind of question that there is opposition by the administration to additional sanctions?”Ms. Mandelker would not give a straight answer, repeatedly telling senators that the Treasury Department had the authority it needed.In the Foreign Relations Committee, senators were clearly frustrated with what they said was a lack of progress in curbing Russian behavior.“Why, given all the things we are doing, are we not making better progress?” asked Senator Rob Portman, Republican of Ohio. “I think sanctions are necessary,” he continued, but “it’s obviously not working the way we’d like. What would be more effective?”A. Wess Mitchell, an assistant secretary of state for European and Eurasian affairs, replied that “the chilling effect on the Russian economy has been significant and measurable.”Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.

Supported byBy Nicole Perlroth, Amie Tsang and Adam SatarianoThe hotel chain asked guests checking in for a treasure trove of personal information: credit cards, addresses and sometimes passport numbers. On Friday, consumers learned the risk. Marriott International revealed that hackers had breached its Starwood reservation system and had stolen the personal data of up to 500 million guests.The assault started as far back as 2014, and was one of the largest known thefts of personal records, second only to a 2013 breach of Yahoo that affected three billion user accounts and larger than a 2017 episode involving the credit bureau Equifax.The intrusion was a reminder that after years of headline-grabbing attacks, the computer networks of big companies are still vulnerable.The Starwood attack happened roughly the same time as a number of other breaches at American health insurers and government agencies, including the United States Office of Personnel Management, in what security research firms and government officials described as an effort to compile a vast database of personal information on potential espionage targets.Experts don’t know if the Starwood attack was connected to those other episodes. But Starwood’s data has not popped up on the so-called dark web, according to Recorded Future, a cybersecurity firm, and Coalition, a cyber insurance provider, which suggested that the hotel attackers weren’t looking to sell what they took.“Usually when stolen data doesn’t appear, it’s a state actor collecting it for intelligence purposes,” said James A. Lewis, a cybersecurity expert at the Center for Strategic Studies in Washington.The breach hit customers who made reservations for the Marriott-owned Starwood hotel brands from 2014 to September 2018. The properties include Sheraton, Westin, W Hotels, St. Regis, Four Points, Aloft, Le Méridien, Tribute, Design Hotels, Element and the Luxury Collection.Marriott hotels, including Residence Inn and the Ritz-Carlton, operate on a separate reservation system. The company has plans to merge that system with Starwood’s.The names, addresses, phone numbers, birth dates, email addresses and encrypted credit card details of hotel customers were stolen. The travel histories and passport numbers of a smaller group of guests were also taken.Marriott said it had set up a dedicated website and call center to deal with guests and said it would try to reach affected customers on Friday to inform them of the breach. The site was having problems staying online shortly after the attack was announced.The company is offering one year of free enrollment in a service called Web Watcher to people who live in the United States, Canada and Britain. Marriott described it as a service that keeps an eye on websites where thieves swap and sell personal information and then alerts people if anyone is selling their information.“We deeply regret this incident,” Arne Sorenson, Marriott’s president and chief executive, said in a statement. “We fell short of what our guests deserve and what we expect of ourselves.”The intrusion went unnoticed for four years by Starwood, which was acquired by Marriott in 2016 for $13.6 billion. It was uncovered in early September, when a security tool alerted Marriott officials to an unauthorized attempt to access Starwood’s guest reservation database. The alert prompted Marriott to work with outside security experts, who discovered that the hackers had grabbed a foothold in Starwood’s systems starting in 2014.There are more reasons than ever to protect your personal information, as major website breaches become ever more frequent.On Nov. 19, digital forensics experts uncovered the full scope of the attack. It was the second major security breach Starwood has reported. Its cash register systems were penetrated in 2015.The Federal Bureau of Investigation said in a statement that it was aware of the breach and was tracking the situation. It added that any suspected instances of identity theft should be reported to the F.B.I.’s Internet Crime Complaint Center at www.ic3.gov.In recent years, cybersecurity experts said, the hospitality industry has become a rich target for nation-state hackers looking to track the travel movements and preferences of heads of states, diplomats, chief executives and other people of interest to espionage agencies.Going after hotel customer lists has been part of a broader effort to obtain giant databases of information. So big, in fact, that they would be of little use to run-of-the-mill hackers. But to a government, they would be very useful.That information could be fed, for example, into an analysis program run by a country’s state security apparatus, Mr. Lewis said. Using “big data” technology similar to what marketers use in targeted advertising, the country could try to pinpoint the comings and going of intelligence agents from other nations. Did they stay, for example, in the same hotel as a potential source for that country?The breach could get expensive for Marriott. Verizon cut what it paid to acquire Yahoo by $350 million after the internet company reported its breach in 2016. And Equifax reported recovery costs of $400 million from its 2017 incident, which affected 148 million people.Despite months of due diligence, finding out there was a major network attack long after a deal closes is “everybody’s worst-case scenario,” said Jake Olcott, vice president at BitSight, a computer security ratings company in Boston.Several lawsuits were filed against Marriott on Friday, and investigations were announced by New York’s attorney general, Barbara D. Underwood, and European regulators.In Europe, where companies can be fined up to 4 percent of global revenue under data protection laws, companies must alert government authorities within 72 hours of a known breach.Given the volume and sensitivity of personal data taken, and the length of the breach, Marriott “has the potential to trigger the first hefty G.D.P.R. fine,” said Enza Iannopollo, a security analyst with Forrester Research, referring to the European data protection law enacted this year.Marriott told shareholders that it did not expect the breach would affect the company’s long-term financial prospects. The company’s share price was down more than 5 percent on Friday.Marriott has also been dealing with strikes by thousands of workers in nine cities, as well as customer complaints about problems with rewards programs after efforts to merge data from Starwood’s rewards program into Marriott’s left the records of millions of customers in limbo.Lawmakers said the episode was yet another example of why the United States needs data privacy laws that punish companies for failing to keep customers’ information private.“It is past time we enact data security laws that ensure companies account for security costs rather than making their consumers shoulder the burden and harms resulting from these lapses,” Senator Mark R. Warner, a Democrat from Virginia, said in a statement.Privacy advocates said there was no excuse for a breach to go unnoticed for four years.“They can say all they want that they take security seriously, but they don’t if you can be hacked over a four-year period without noticing,” said Gus Hosein, executive director of Privacy International, a group that supports strong data protection laws.An earlier version of this article misstated the value of Marriott International’s acquisition of Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide in 2016. Marriott bought Starwood for $13.6 billion, not $12.2 billion.Follow Nicole Perlroth, Amie Tsang and Adam Satariano on Twitter: @nicoleperlroth, @amietsang and @satariano.Ron Lieber and Stacy Cowley contributed reporting.

Supported byThe Tip SheetBy Jonathan Martin, Matt Flegenheimer and Alan BlinderWelcome to The Tip Sheet, a daily political analysis of the 2018 elections, based on interviews with Republican and Democratic officials, pollsters, strategists and voters.• Follow updates from around the country on Sunday.• Just as there’s a consensus in both parties that Democrats are likely to pick up about 35 House seats on Tuesday, there’s a bipartisan view that the outlook for the Senate is … far less clear.• Top officials on both sides agree that Republicans are likely to defeat Senator Heidi Heitkamp, Democrat of North Dakota, who is roughly 10 points down in the polls.• But every other Senate Democrat is still seen as viable. That itself is rather extraordinary given that Democrats are defending 10 seats in states that President Trump carried.• A new poll on Saturday showed Senator Claire McCaskill of Missouri tied with Josh Hawley, the Republican nominee; she was widely seen throughout October as the most vulnerable incumbent after Ms. Heitkamp. Mr. Trump is set to campaign for Mr. Hawley in Missouri on Monday night, joined by Sean Hannity and Rush Limbaugh.Ms. McCaskill, campaigning Sunday outside a Walmart in Ferguson, Mo., suggested that Mr. Trump’s rallies for Mr. Hawley might backfire with voters like the African-American shoppers she was greeting here.“A lot of my constituents at this Walmart, they now identify Josh Hawley as Donald Trump. And that is not a positive thing for most of my constituents here,” she said. “Now, in other parts of the state it may be a very positive thing, so we will have to see how that all comes out in the wash.”• Senator Joe Donnelly, Democrat of Indiana, has a small lead in some public polls even as Republicans claim that their surveys have him trailing.• If Democrats manage to lose just the Heitkamp seat, they have a (remote) chance of winning the Senate. They would have to win three of these four Republican-held seats: Texas, Arizona, Nevada and Tennessee.• Of the four, officials in both parties think Democrats are best positioned to win in Arizona and Nevada, where Mr. Trump’s incendiary language on immigration has infuriated Hispanic voters.What’s less clear is which of the remaining two seats is more viable:• In Tennessee, Democrats insist that Phil Bredesen, the former governor, is only narrowly trailing in the Senate race. Public polls, though, show the Republican, Representative Marsha Blackburn, enjoying a lead.• That leaves — yes — the Texas race between Representative Beto O’Rourke and Senator Ted Cruz. Republicans insist that the race is in their favor and that Mr. Cruz leads outside the margin of error in polling. But early voting in Texas is reaching historic levels and veteran Democrats say it’s folly to trust any polling when it’s not clear what the universe of voters could be, given that Mr. O’Rourke has excited many Texans beyond those who usually vote.So, yes, control of the Senate could be coming down to turnout.The office of Georgia Secretary of State Brian Kemp, who is also the Republican nominee for governor, said Sunday that the authorities had opened an inquiry into the Democratic Party of Georgia after “a failed attempt to hack the state’s voter registration system.” Mr. Kemp’s office offered no evidence or details of the episode.Democratic leaders called the inquiry an abuse of power and political stunt by Mr. Kemp, given his dual role overseeing an election in which he is also running for the state’s top job. Democrats said any claims of the party being involved in a hack were false.Mr. Kemp’s office disclosed two days before an election in which polls show Mr. Kemp effectively tied with Stacey Abrams, who is trying to become the first black woman elected governor anywhere in the United States. Ms. Abrams said Sunday that the hack inquiry was a desperate move on Mr. Kemp’s part.Although Mr. Kemp’s office raised the specter of wrongdoing by Democrats, word of the inquiry was certain to heighten fears that Mr. Kemp was seeking to tamper with the integrity of the election. Democrats have spent weeks calling on Mr. Kemp to resign his post, arguing that he could not independently oversee an election in which he is running.“While we cannot comment on the specifics of an ongoing investigation, I can confirm that the Democratic Party of Georgia is under investigation for possible cyber crimes,” Candice Broce, a spokeswoman for Mr. Kemp, said in a statement. “We can also confirm that no personal data was breached and our system remains secure.”Rebecca DeHart, executive director of the Georgia Democratic Party, said: “This is yet another example of abuse of power by an unethical Secretary of State. To be very clear, Brian Kemp’s scurrilous claims are 100 percent false, and this so-called investigation was unknown to the Democratic Party of Georgia until a campaign operative in Kemp’s official office released a statement this morning.“This political stunt from Kemp just days before the election is yet another example of why he cannot be trusted and should not be overseeing an election in which he is also a candidate for governor.”Mr. Kemp’s office said the F.B.I. was notified about the inquiry. Kevin Rowson, a spokesman for the F.B.I. office in Atlanta, declined to comment on Sunday.Mr. Kemp’s dual status as candidate and regulator has been a subject of rancorous debate in Georgia, where allegations of voter suppression have repeatedly been litigated in the courts. As recently as Friday, a judge sided with Mr. Kemp’s critics in one case.Mr. Kemp has broadly decried “this farce about voter suppression” and said he had “made it easier to vote and harder to cheat in our state.”But Ms. Abrams, who made much of her reputation through her work to register new voters across Georgia, argued that voters had “been purged, they’ve been suppressed and they’ve been scared.”Mr. Kemp is set to appear with President Trump at a campaign rally Sunday afternoon in Macon, Ga.Mike Bloomberg and George Soros want to take away Florida’s guns, according to mailers arriving at homes there last week urging support for Ron DeSantis, the Republican candidate for governor.The literature — claiming to be from the National Rifle Association’s political arm — says Mayor Andrew Gillum of Tallahassee, the Democratic nominee who is locked in a tight race with Mr. DeSantis, “shares the same radical anti-gun agenda as Michael Bloomberg and George Soros.”• Mr. Bloomberg and Mr. Soros favor gun control. And both have been targets of gun rights advocates in the past.Most recently, pro-gun conspiracy theorists circulated a meme suggesting that Mr. Soros funded and organized teenage survivors of the Parkland massacre who became gun control activists.Facebook ads posted by the N.R.A. this year called Mr. Bloomberg, the former New York mayor, a hypocrite for using an armed security detail while pushing gun control. Mr. Bloomberg formed the gun control organization Everytown for Gun Safety.• In a tweet this week, the N.R.A. took aim at the billionaires, along with Tom Steyer, a California megadonor to Democratic candidates. Mr. Soros and Mr. Steyer were among the targets who had pipe bombs sent to them by a fervent Trump supporter last month.“Another billionaire is pumping unlimited money into electing anti-gun lawmakers,” the tweet said. “Notorious anti-gunner George Soros joins anti-gun billionaires Steyer and Bloomberg. There is no end to how much they’ll pay to push their elitist agenda on Americans.”The math currently favors the Democrats in the House and the Republicans in the Senate.• Mr. Gillum has said he supports the Second Amendment but favors a series of gun control measures. His campaign has received millions in support from the three men.Mr. Gillum has spent part of his campaign swatting away criticisms over crime issues in Tallahassee on his watch. So Democrats had cause to privately wonder if the fatal shooting at a yoga studio there on Friday might place him on the defensive.On Saturday, after returning home briefly to tend to the situation, Mr. Gillum resumed campaigning and chose to confront the subject directly.“It only, for me, underscores what we have to do just three days from now,” he said at a rally in West Palm Beach, “when we send an unapologetic message to the N.R.A. that their time is up in the state of Florida.In the closing days of the tight Senate battle in Missouri, Mr. Hawley, the Republican candidate, has been fighting off the latest questions about his turbulent tenure as attorney general.His opponent, Senator McCaskill, has seized on a Kansas City Star article that said Mr. Hawley’s “out-of-state political consultants gave direct guidance and tasks to his taxpayer-funded staff” soon after his 2016 election, and followed up to “ensure the tasks were completed, according to emails, text messages and other records.”The same day the article appeared last week, Ms. McCaskill’s campaign tweeted video of Mr. Hawley proclaiming after his election that political consultants would no longer run the state.A Saturday tweet from Ms. McCaskill on the topic simply proclaimed “goodness gracious.”Hey, I’m Alex Burns, a politics correspondent for The Times. Send me your questions using the NYT app. I’ll give you the latest intel from the campaign trail.Mr. Hawley, whose team did not comment, has been busy with a string of 11th-hour rallies featuring President Trump (the final one is Monday night), Vice President Mike Pence and Oliver North, the president of the N.R.A.• The president has two campaign rallies scheduled: 4 p.m. in Macon, Ga., with Brian Kemp, the Republican nominee for governor; and 7 p.m. in Chattanooga, Tenn., with Ms. Blackburn.• Our colleagues Julie Hirschfeld Davis and Katie Rogers on the White House team have a really good story about women at Trump rallies who see the president as a hero protecting a way of life.Thanks for reading The Tip Sheet. Have you checked out On Politics with Lisa Lerer, our evening newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox.Danny Hakim and Stephanie Saul contributed reporting.

Supported byBy Helene CooperWASHINGTON — China has stolen sensitive data related to naval warfare from the computers of a Navy contractor, American officials said on Friday, in another step in the long-running cyberwar between two global adversaries.The breach occurred this year, the officials said, when Chinese government hackers infiltrated the computers of a company working on a Navy submarine and underwater programs contract. The company, which was not identified, was doing work for the Naval Undersea Warfare Center, which is based in Newport, R.I.Officials said that the data gleaned by China was unclassified.Navy officials declined to speak publicly about the hack, which was first reported by The Washington Post.But in a statement, Lt. Marycate Walsh, a Navy spokeswoman, cited “measures in place that require companies to notify the government when a cyberincident has occurred that has actual or potential adverse effects on their networks that contain controlled unclassified information.”She said it would be “inappropriate to discuss further details at this time.”China and the United States have been locked in an escalating fight over cyber and military technology, with Beijing making rapid gains in recent years. American officials — from both the Trump administration and the Obama administration before it — concede that Washington has struggled to deter Chinese hacking, and have predicted the cyberattacks will increase until the United States finds a way to curb them.The theft of the Navy system is hardly the largest, or the most sensitive, of the designs and systems stolen by Chinese hackers over the years. But it underscores a lesson the American government keeps learning: No matter how fast the government moves to shore up it cyberdefenses, and those of the defense industrial base, the cyberattackers move faster.The plans for the F-35, the nation’s most expensive fighter jet in history, were taken more than a decade ago, and the Chinese model looks like an almost exact replica of its American inspiration.A People’s Liberation Army unit, known as Unit 61398, was filled with skilled hackers who purloined corporate trade secrets to benefit Chinese state-owned industry. But many of its targets were defense related as well. Members of the unit were indicted in the last two years of the Obama administration, but none are likely to come back to the United States to stand trial.The most sophisticated hack of American data took place at the Office of Personnel Management. It lost the files of about 21.5 million Americans who had filed extensive questionnaires for their security clearances. The forms listed far more than Social Security numbers and birth dates. They detailed medical and financial histories; past relationships; and details about children, parents and friends, particularly non-United States citizens.The office stored much of the data at the Interior Department and encrypted nearly none of it. So when the Chinese copied it in a highly sophisticated operation, they were prepared to use big data techniques to draw a map of the American elite, who worked on which projects and who knew whom. The loss was so severe that many American intelligence agencies canceled the deployment of new officers to China.But the United States is unlikely to retaliate. To most intelligence officials this is just another espionage case, bearing similarities to what the United States does around the world.Lieutenant Walsh said that the Navy treated “the broader intrusion against our contractors very seriously.”“If such an intrusion were to occur, the appropriate parties would be looking at the specific incident, taking measures to protect current info, and mitigating the impacts that might result from any information that might have been compromised,” she said.The United States and China are wrangling over trade issues but also jointly looking to rein in North Korea’s nuclear ambitions. President Trump is headed to Singapore this weekend for a June 12 summit meeting with North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un.The United States and China are also tangling over Beijing’s militarization of disputed islands in the South China Sea.Last week, Defense Secretary Jim Mattis harshly criticized the Chinese government for continuing to militarize a string of islands in the South China Sea, calling the presence of advanced military equipment and missiles there a flagrant show of military power.To add muscle to American complaints, Mr. Mattis recently disinvited the Chinese military from a large, multinational naval exercise this summer — in part because of the anti-ship and surface-to-air missiles, and other weapons, that China has positioned on the Spratly Islands.A United States official, speaking on the condition of anonymity because he was not allowed to be identified in discussing the issue, said the Navy was investigating the breach with the help of the F.B.I.David E. Sanger contributed reporting.

Supported byBy Patricia MazzeiMIAMI — Cryptic comments from Senator Bill Nelson of Florida this week alluded to a secret Russian plot to tap into Florida’s election systems.“They have already penetrated certain counties in the state, and they now have free rein to move about,” the Democratic senator told The Tampa Bay Times on Wednesday.He declined to elaborate or offer any proof. A day earlier, he had described details as “classified.”But the suggestion that Russian hackers might have breached voter systems, vague as it was, has set off a political maelstrom in Florida less than three weeks before the state’s Aug. 28 primary election.On Friday, Gov. Rick Scott, a Republican who is running against Mr. Nelson for the Senate, accused his opponent of scaremongering and demanded that he back up his claims with evidence.“Either Bill Nelson knows of crucial information the federal government is withholding from Florida election officials, or he is simply making things up,” Mr. Scott said at a Tampa campaign event. “So far, no one seems to know what Nelson is talking about.”Russian hackers attempted to infiltrate voter registration systems in Florida and at least 20 other states in 2016, according to federal officials. But before Mr. Nelson’s comments, there had been no indications of any successful meddling this year. In a July indictment, the Justice Department accused 12 Russian intelligence officers of posing as an election vendor and sending more than 100 phishing emails to elections officials in a number of Florida counties.“While we are aware of Senator Nelson’s recent statements, we have not seen any new compromises by Russian actors of election infrastructure,” Sara Sendek, a spokeswoman for the Department of Homeland Security, said in a statement on Wednesday. “That said, we don’t need to wait for a specific threat to be ready.”Mr. Nelson’s comments prompted worried voters to contact some of the state’s 67 elections supervisors. Nearly half a million voters have already cast ballots by mail ahead of the primary, and in-person early voting begins in some counties on Monday.“Everyone wants to know what we’re doing to secure the elections,” said Paul Lux of Okaloosa County, president of the Florida State Association of Supervisors of Elections. He noted that Florida voters cast paper ballots, and the attempted 2016 breaches targeted voter registration databases, not election tallies.Election experts say that hackers do not need to change votes to have an impact. Intruding into systems, corrupting voter rolls and taking down websites all sow chaos and erode confidence in the system.“Elections are a system based on trust. All you need to do is inject enough doubt in people’s minds,” said Laura Rosenberger, director of the Alliance for Securing Democracy, which monitors interference in elections.Ken Detzner, the Florida secretary of state, who works for the governor and is in charge of elections, on Thursday asked Senator Richard Burr of North Carolina, the chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, to share any information that could shed light on Mr. Nelson’s comments. Mr. Nelson is the ranking member of the cyber subcommittee of the Senate Armed Services Committee.Earlier this year, Mr. Detzner made few moves to obtain federal money that was available to shore up voting systems from outside attack. He said the $19.2 million in federal funds earmarked for Florida would not be available for elections supervisors to use ahead of the midterm elections. But Mr. Detzner was overruled by Mr. Scott, who ordered him to seek the money so that it could be spent before the election.On Thursday, Mr. Detzner said he had already contacted Homeland Security, the F.B.I. and the Florida Department of Law Enforcement, and none had any details about possible Russian hacking attempts. The state’s division of elections, which he oversees, “has no evidence to support these claims,” Mr. Detzner wrote.In his response on Friday, Mr. Burr advised Florida to remain in contact with federal agencies about any potential election intrusions. He also referred to a July 2 letter that Mr. Nelson and Senator Marco Rubio of Florida sent to elections supervisors about possible threats.“The federal government has resources to help, and only by working together can we thwart Russia’s continued efforts to interfere in our democracy and undermine our elections,” Mr. Burr wrote. “That is also the message of the letter sent by Senators Rubio and Nelson, and I support their effort.”But the senators’ letter to elections supervisors did not detail the sort of breach suggested this week by Mr. Nelson. In a statement on Friday, Mr. Rubio, a Republican member of the intelligence committee, did not confirm nor deny Mr. Nelson’s claims.“Given the importance of Florida in our national politics, our state’s election systems have been and will remain a potentially attractive target for attacks by foreign actors,” said Mr. Rubio, who for months has warned of attempts at election interference.A hint of corroboration came late Friday from Sen. Mark Warner, the intelligence committee’s ranking Democrat. “Sens. Nelson and Rubio are right to warn their state’s election officials about this very serious and ongoing threat to our democracy,” he said in a statement. “This is not about politics. I urge officials at all levels of government to heed the warning and work with D.H.S. and the F.B.I. to address the threat.”Mr. Nelson did not appear to hold any campaign events or give any interviews to the news media on Friday, as the controversy over his comments continued for a third day. In a statement, he said he and Senate colleagues “are trying to make sure Florida officials are aware of the ongoing Russian threat so they take the steps necessary to safeguard our elections.”“It’s unfortunate that some Florida officials would try to use this issue for personal, political gain,” he said.Follow Patricia Mazzei on Twitter: @PatriciaMazzei.Julian E. Barnes contributed reporting from Washington.

Supported byNews AnalysisBy David E. SangerLast week, the American public saw for the first time detailed, specific evidence that President Vladimir V. Putin’s military commanders in Russia were engaged in a day-to-day, highly sophisticated effort to manipulate the 2016 election.But on Monday, standing next to Mr. Putin, President Trump not only avoided all mention of the Justice Department’s indictment of 12 Russian military intelligence officers, but he questioned the very conclusion that Russia was behind the hacking.Instead, Mr. Trump raised a series of largely irrelevant conspiracy theories — none of which were directly related to the evidence of Russian hacking activity.He returned to questions of why the F.B.I. never took custody of a Democratic National Committee computer server.He asked what happened to Imran Awan, a Pakistan-born Capitol Hill aide, who pleaded guilty this month on unrelated fraud charges after becoming a cause célèbre for conservatives who questioned whether he was linked to the committee’s hacking. (A July 3 plea agreement found no evidence that Mr. Awan illegally handled congressional computer systems.)And Mr. Trump demanded to know why thousands of Hillary Clinton’s emails had disappeared, a question apparently unrelated to Russia’s activities.It was a smoke-and-mirrors effort, several American intelligence officials said later Monday. While Mr. Trump’s supporters repeatedly return to the question of the Democratic National Committee’s reluctance to turn over its server, which still sits in the committee’s basement, investigators familiar with the intelligence in the case said the hardware itself is of little investigative value.That is because the emails were always supposed to be stored in the party committee’s server. How they made their way into communications channels and networks used by the G.R.U., Mr. Putin’s aggressive military intelligence unit, is the crux of the investigation. And so is the question of who ordered that they be made public at critical moments in the 2016 campaign.An indictment from the special counsel investigating Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election explains how 12 Russian intelligence officers hacked the Democratic National Committee and Hillary Clinton’s campaign.The Russian president, for his part, was more subtle.Mr. Putin invited American investigators working for the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, to come to Moscow and work with Russian officials in a joint investigation. It was akin to the prime suspect in a homicide offering to join detectives in going house to house in a search for the culprit.“Putin is just trying to tie this investigation thing up,” said James Lewis, a cybersecurity expert at the Center for Strategic and International Studies.Mr. Lewis said the Russian president “wants to assert himself as peer.” He noted that Mr. Putin again raised the proposal of a joint cybersecurity working group — an idea that Mr. Trump initially and enthusiastically supported until his staff explained the dangers of potentially undercutting American cyberdefense programs.“He must just laugh when he gets back to Moscow,” Mr. Lewis said.Mr. Trump’s own effort at misdirection is not new.When he first met Mr. Putin a year ago, in Hamburg, Germany, he said the Russian leader had made a persuasive case that Moscow was so skilled at cyberattacks it could not have been involved. Mr. Trump offered a version of the same explanation on Monday, saying Mr. Putin had been enormously persuasive in his denials.That shocked many of his current and former aides, who say the president has been briefed repeatedly — starting at Trump Tower in Manhattan in January 2017 — on the basis for the conclusion that Mr. Putin himself ordered the attack. The aides said Mr. Trump understands that American, British and Dutch intelligence all intercepted Russian messages and Democratic National Committee documents.The American president has also been told that the F.B.I. has received a full “forensic copy” of the committee’s server. That is a fairly standard practice and, as the committee noted Monday in a statement, is “the best thing to use in an investigation so that your exploration of the server does not change the evidence.”And Mr. Trump has been briefed extensively on the specific roles of the newly indicted Russian military commanders in publishing stolen emails and attempts to infiltrate election systems.His equivocating on Monday left several people who have worked with him to conclude that the president simply will not accept evidence of Russian involvement — fearing it could be used by political enemies to argue he was not legitimately elected.The heads of the national security agencies on Thursday said that Russia was still trying to influence United States elections, contradicting statements made by President Trump.More than 18 months into his presidency, Mr. Trump has stood alone as the sole senior American official who has questioned the quality of the evidence.His secretary of state, Mike Pompeo, said he had no doubts about Russia’s involvement when he served as director of the C.I.A. The heads of the National Security Agency and the other leading intelligence agencies have said the same.Mr. Trump’s director of national intelligence, Dan Coats, went further last week when he argued that the system was “blinking red” about future cyberattacks, maybe intended to affect the next election. On Monday, shortly after his boss questioned whether Mr. Putin or the American intelligence community was right, Mr. Coats responded, “We have been clear in our assessments of Russian meddling in the 2016 election and their ongoing, pervasive efforts to undermine our democracy.”In a normal political environment, it is easy to imagine a president pursuing the investigation even while making the case that the 2016 outcome was not affected by the Russian activities. Mr. Trump, his closest aides say, has never been able to separate the question of preventing future Russian meddling from his conviction that the entire issue is a political concoction.The effects of that paralysis are now being seen. At the White House, the job of cybercoordinator — the post responsible for coordinating American defenses — has been eliminated.The Department of Homeland Security has raised urgent concerns about the vulnerability of American critical infrastructure, including electric utilities, to malware planted by Russian hackers. But Mr. Trump has never led a significant meeting on the subject, aides said. He never created a commission to learn lessons from the 2016 experience.Now, as was clear in the most awkward moments of the news conference, the issue is more complicated for both Mr. Trump and Mr. Putin.The intelligence revealed in Friday’s indictment contains such specific conversations between Russian military officers, WikiLeaks and others that it would reasonably leave both presidents concerned about what else from the American intelligence trove may have been turned over to Mr. Mueller. If there were Americans involved, they would have to assume they, too, were caught in the digital dragnet.Mr. Mueller’s investigation is clearly not yet over, and there are hints in the Friday indictments that he is now trying to establish the links between the Russian hackers and any Americans who may have been working with them. Perhaps that is why Mr. Trump kept returning to his claim that there was no collusion — a question the special counsel has not yet publicly addressed.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.

Supported byBy David E. Sanger, Eileen Sullivan and David D. KirkpatrickWASHINGTON — Western allies accused Russian intelligence officers on Thursday of launching cyberattacks against organizations around the globe that challenged Russian wrongdoing, exposed Kremlin disinformation campaigns or took on President Vladimir V. Putin.Officers operating near Red Square sought to hack the British foreign ministry, antidoping agencies in Colorado Springs and Canada, and investigators examining the shooting down of a Malaysian passenger jet over Ukraine in 2014, the officials said.Other Russian officers armed with mobile computer equipment traveled to the Netherlands in April to tap into the headquarters of the world’s chemical weapons watchdog, which was investigating the poisoning in Britain a month earlier of a Russian former spy and his daughter. Those officers were caught and expelled.Seeking to deter Moscow, officials in Washington, London and Amsterdam released extraordinarily detailed accounts of Russian misdeeds on Thursday in intelligence reports and a Justice Department indictment charging seven Russian officers.They named the officers, published photographs of them and their equipment, and released maps charting their travel and their targets. One officer caught in the Netherlands, they said, was carrying a receipt for a taxi ride to the Moscow airport from the street outside the headquarters of the military intelligence agency formerly known as the G.R.U.The complaints echoed the case that British authorities recently made against Russia in the poisoning of the former spy, Sergei V. Skripal, by publishing photographs of two Russian officers and other evidence. American officials also expanded the constellation of cyberattacks they blamed on Russia, which they had previously limited to election interference.The accusations also demonstrated that even while its hacking of the Democratic National Committee was underway, the G.R.U. was conducting similar operations around the world.“The defendants believed that they could use their perceived anonymity to act with impunity, in their own countries and on territories of other sovereign nations, to undermine international institutions and to distract from their government’s own wrongdoing,” said John C. Demers, the assistant attorney general for national security. “They were wrong.”As with previous Justice Department criminal complaints against hackers from Russia, China, Iran and North Korea, the indictments were unlikely to lead to arrests. But taken together, the accusations formed the West’s latest public shaming of the Kremlin, over malfeasance that President Trump has shown reluctance to condemn. In the case of election interference in the United States, he has cast doubt that it ever happened.Instead, Vice President Mike Pence denounced China on a number of fronts on Thursday, saying that its influence campaigns were more worrisome than Russia’s. “What the Russians are doing pales in comparison to what China is doing across this country,” he said.He made no reference to the Russian indictments.The Kremlin dismissed the accusations. A spokesman for the Foreign Ministry called them the result of a “rich imagination” and “some kind of diabolical perfume cocktail,” Russian state media reported.The combined effort by Western officials is based on a theory that Mr. Putin and his aides can be embarrassed into paring back their operations. But past cases cast doubt on that theory. American intelligence agencies accused the Russians, and ultimately Mr. Putin, of the Democratic National Committee hack in 2016; Thursday’s allegations documented misconduct this year, by the same agency and, in some cases, the same operatives.Of the seven Russian officers charged by the Justice Department, three were also indicted in July by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, for interfering in the 2016 election. The new Justice Department case did not emerge from the Mueller investigation, Mr. Demers said, but added, “They evince the same methods of computer intrusion and the same overarching Russian strategic goal: to pursue its interests through illegal influence and disinformation operations aimed at muddying or altering perceptions of the truth.”The indictment primarily focused on allegations that the Russian officers hacked into antidoping agencies and sporting federations, including the global soccer organization FIFA, and stole private medical information about roughly 250 athletes from 30 countries. The hackers released the data “selectively, and sometimes misleadingly,” in retaliation for the revelations of a state-sponsored Russian doping program that led to a ban on the Russian team from the 2018 Winter Olympics, prosecutors said.The Dutch intelligence officials also contributed evidence to the hacks of the sports groups. The authorities who foiled the Russian operation in the Netherlands seized a laptop that had a picture of one of the G.R.U. officers with a Russian athlete during the 2016 Summer Olympics in Brazil. It also contained evidence that a Russian spy stayed in the same Lausanne, Switzerland, hotel as a Canadian antidoping official during a meeting of the World Anti-Doping Agency as it investigated allegations of Russian doping.After the Canadian official logged on to the hotel’s Wi-Fi network, the Russian and some of his colleagues used it to illegally access his laptop, according to the Justice Department indictment. The Canadian later noticed a strange message in his sent mail riddled with typos and a fake signature. Investigators found a malicious link embedded in the email; Russian intelligence had apparently used it to stealthily access the Canadian antidoping agency’s network for weeks in the fall of 2016.Beginning that September, officers from G.R.U. Unit 74455 released information stolen from the World Anti-Doping Agency. Claiming to be “hacktivists,” court papers show they went by the name Fancy Bears’ Hack Team, an ironic reference to the name that investigators have given to that G.R.U. unit and another.As they did that summer and fall with stolen Democratic emails, the Russians played off the Western news media’s hunger for scoops. Through this July, the indictment alleged, the Fancy Bears’ Hack Team communicated with about 70 reporters, doling out stories on an exclusive basis.In one case, the Justice Department alleged, an unidentified reporter suggested ways for the spies to sift through their stolen data for nuggets of news. When articles resulting from their documents were published, the Russian intelligence officers distributed them “in an apparent attempt to amplify the exposure and effect of their message,” the indictment said.“All of this was done to undermine those organizations’ efforts to ensure the integrity of the Olympic and other games,” Mr. Demers said.One officer, Ivan Sergeyevich Yermakov, was also charged with creating a fake website and sending spear-phishing emails to employees of Westinghouse Electric Company, based near Pittsburgh, who worked on nuclear reactor technology. Westinghouse has supplied Ukraine with nuclear fuel, but Mr. Demers declined to detail whether the larger aim of the Russian operation was to steal nuclear technology or interfere with fuel deliveries to Ukraine, which Mr. Putin has sought to destabilize.View the totality of Russia’s influence campaign, and how Russian contacts, hacking and social media fraud often coincided during the election.One of the most detailed and well-documented of the charges involved the attack on the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons. The group was investigating the poisoning in March of the Skripals. British officials have accused Russia of using a nerve agent to try to kill Mr. Skripal, whom Mr. Putin on Wednesday called “simply a scumbag” and “a traitor to the motherland.”The attack on the O.P.C.W., as the group is known, unfolded over three days before it was thwarted.Dutch officials identified four Russian military intelligence operatives — two of whom specialize in cyberattacks — soon after they arrived in Amsterdam on April 10 carrying diplomatic passports, said Maj. Gen. Onno Eichelsheim, the director of the Dutch Military Intelligence and Security Service. They were also behind an attempt to hack a Swiss laboratory that tested a nerve agent for the O.P.C.W. in the Skripal poisoning and had also done testing in 2013 of the agent used in a chemical attack in Syria, a Russian ally, Dutch officials said.British intelligence officials alerted their Dutch counterparts that the Russian officers intended to conduct reconnaissance for a hacking operation, General Eichelsheim said. A day after their arrival, the spies rented a Citroën hatchback to travel to and around The Hague. One of them, Alexey Minin, took several pictures around O.P.C.W. headquarters, according to Dutch officials.On their third day in the Netherlands, the Russian officers parked the Citroën in the lot of a Marriott Hotel next door, its trunk pointed toward the headquarters of the arms control organization. Inside the car was a sophisticated device for penetrating a Wi-Fi network to gather the login credentials of its users, its antenna hidden under a jacket.After about 30 minutes, the Dutch authorities moved in on the Citroën, catching the Russians in the act and, General Eichelsheim said, preventing “severe damage” to the O.P.C.W.The Dutch recovered the taxi receipt and the laptop, whose internet search history included evidence that train tickets were purchased for an April 17 trip from the Netherlands to Bern, Switzerland, about 25 miles from the Swiss facility, said to be their next target.The Dutch also seized a mobile phone that one of the Russian agents tried to destroy and discovered that it had been used four days earlier at G.R.U. headquarters.They also found evidence that a Russian officer had been in a Kuala Lumpur hotel near where Malaysian government officials were investigating the 2014 crash of the passenger jet over Ukraine that killed nearly 300 people. In May, international investigators said Russia had supplied the missile that downed the plane.And British officials identified a group of hackers known as Sandworm as the culprits in Russia’s attempt to hack the British Foreign and Commonwealth Office and said that the same Russian officers were behind attempted cyberattacks in April on the British Defense Science and Technology Laboratory.David E. Sanger and Eileen Sullivan reported from Washington, and David D. Kirkpatrick from London. Charlie Savage contributed reporting from Washington, Milan Schreuer from Brussels and Ellen Barry from London.

Supported byBy David D. KirkpatrickThe two men had known each other for years around Capitol Hill. Both were hawkish supporters of Israel and active in the Republican Party. But now they were on opposite sides of a remote dispute between wealthy Persian Gulf monarchs: One was a lobbyist for Qatar, and the other had sided strongly with rivals who sought to blockade the tiny emirate.“Be very careful,” the lobbyist, Nicolas D. Muzin, warned on March 5, in a conversation quoted Thursday in a legal complaint accusing Qatar of hacking into the computers of its American opponents.Anyone Mr. Muzin pointed to was “in danger,” he told his old acquaintance, Joel Mowbray, who appears to have recorded their conversation about the Qataris. “Honestly, I know they are after you and after Broidy,” the lobbyist continued, referring to Elliot Broidy, a top Republican donor, critic of Qatar and Mr. Mowbray’s associate.Their conversation occurred just days after The New York Times and other news organizations began publishing articles based in part on leaked emails from Mr. Broidy’s account.Many showed him trying to exploit his access to the White House to obtain lucrative contracts with foreign governments for his private security company. Mr. Broidy’s efforts included promoting accusations that Qatar was destabilizing the region while he was landing a contract for hundreds of millions of dollars with its rival, the United Arab Emirates.All the emails were provided to the news organizations by anonymous sources and they began a run of bad publicity for Mr. Broidy. An unrelated legal proceeding revealed a few weeks later that he had worked through the president’s personal lawyer, Michael D. Cohen, to pay $1.6 million to a former Playboy model who became pregnant during an affair.The F.B.I. has opened a criminal investigation into allegations of hacking Mr. Broidy’s account, according to people involved.In a lawsuit filed in a federal court in California, lawyers for Mr. Broidy have argued that the government of Qatar directed the hacking of his emails to punish him for his vocal criticism of the country. An amended complaint filed on Thursday contends that, as a lobbyist for Qatar, Mr. Muzin’s comments amounted to an admission of its guilt.“Mr. Muzin has admitted culpability,” the complaint charges, and “as its registered foreign agent, Mr. Muzin’s admission also binds the defendant State of Qatar.”Mr. Muzin did not respond to a request for comment through his firm, Stonington Strategies, but has previously called Mr. Broidy’s allegations “specious” and “hollow.”Qatar has denied any role in the hacking. “His claims are completely fabricated and without merit,” Jassim al-Thani, a spokesman for Qatar in Washington, said in a statement. “It was Mr. Broidy who conspired in the shadows against Qatar — not the other way around.”Governments around the world are increasingly capitalizing on hard-to-trace hacking to damage or embarrass their rivals, and Mr. Broidy’s lawsuit and the parallel criminal investigation are rare attempts to use the American court system to try to hold a suspected state accountable.Another well-known antagonist of Qatar in Washington, the Emirati ambassador, has also endured extensive critical news coverage based on hacked emails leaked to The Times and other news organizations.But the lawsuit’s reliance on the conversation between Mr. Muzin and Mr. Mowbray underscores the difficulty of proving responsibility for such attacks without using espionage to record an admission. That challenge evidently led Mr. Broidy and his associates to resort to their own surreptitious recording.Two people involved in the case said on the condition of anonymity that the conversation had been recorded; a lawyer for Mr. Broidy declined to comment on how it was obtained. Mr. Mowbray did not return a call seeking comment.The amended complaint on Thursday also accused two others identified as former intelligence agents for the United States and Britain of conspiring with Qatar to carry out the hacking.Lawyers for Mr. Broidy describe Kevin Chalker, founder of the New York-based firm Global Risk Advisors, as “a former C.I.A. cyberoperative” and David Mark Powell as “a former British intelligence operative who runs G.R.A. operations out of Qatar.”The complaint says that Mr. Powell opened the firm’s Qatar office in October 2017, “just weeks prior to the commencement of the attack on the plaintiff,” but offers no other details or evidence of a role. Mr. Chalker and Mr. Powell did not respond to requests for comment relayed through their firm.The fragments of conversation with Mr. Muzin appear to be the strongest evidence disclosed in the complaint that connects Qatar with the hacking.Mr. Muzin told his old acquaintance that “Broidy’s name comes up in embassy meetings often” with Qatari diplomats, the complaint states. “I definitely identified him as somebody who was not, didn’t like them too much,” Mr. Muzin said, and “they knew he had been influential” with the White House.Speaking after the first articles based on the leaks had appeared, Mr. Muzin knew in advance that “there is more stuff coming,” the complaint says.But the complaint does not specify the source of his information, and adds that Mr. Muzin said his knowledge did not make him responsible.“I did not cause the Broidy stuff, just because I have information,” Mr. Muzin reportedly said of the leaks. “I don’t know all the details, but I know that I am hearing repeatedly that there’s a lot more coming.”Adam Goldman contributed reporting from Washington.

Supported byBy Maggie HabermanWhen the Fox News host Chris Wallace asked President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia whether Russian hackers had tried to influence the 2016 American election, he gave an unusual answer: The hacks had exposed some Democrats who put their thumbs on the scale to help Hillary Clinton, and that was what mattered.Mr. Putin made the comments in a Fox News exclusive interview on Monday evening after his two-hour, one-on-one summit meeting with President Trump and their joint news conference.Mr. Wallace tried to press Mr. Putin on a topic that Mr. Trump all but dismissed during the news conference — the indictment of 12 Russian intelligence officers who the special counsel investigating interference in the 2016 election said were acting in their “official capacities” when they hacked the Democratic National Committee and the Clinton presidential campaign.The heads of the national security agencies on Thursday said that Russia was still trying to influence United States elections, contradicting statements made by President Trump.Mr. Putin refused to acknowledge a paper copy of the indictment that Mr. Wallace tried to hand him.“Do you really believe that someone acting from the Russian territory could have influenced the United States and influenced the choice of millions of Americans?” Mr. Putin said.He went on: “The idea was about hacking an email account of a Democratic candidate. Was it some rigging of facts? Was it some forgery of facts? That’s the important thing that I am trying to — point that I’m trying to make. Was this — any false information planted? No. It wasn’t.”The hackers, he said, entered “a certain email account and there was information about manipulations conducted within the Democratic Party to incline the process in favor of one candidate.”In July 2016, shortly before the Democratic National Convention began, the website WikiLeaks began posting a trove of emails hacked from Democratic National Committee officials. The emails indicated that top party officials were working to support Mrs. Clinton over the insurgent candidate, Senator Bernie Sanders, independent of Vermont.Reports of the president’s comments prompted outcry from some lawmakers, but they were followed by notable silence from others.Those hacks sowed discord between the Clinton and Sanders camps that has never fully healed, and prompted the committee’s chairwoman, Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz of Florida, to resign. In the indictment by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, prosecutors indicated that the timing of the leaked emails was intended to create as much chaos for the Democrats as possible.Mr. Putin, who did not address who he thought was responsible for the hacks, focused on what was revealed.“As far as I know, the entire party leadership resigned,” Mr. Putin said. “They admitted the fact of their manipulations. So, that’s one thing — that manipulation is where public opinion should stop, and an apology should be made to the public at large.” During the news conference, Mr. Putin answered bluntly when asked whether he had wanted Mr. Trump to win the election. “Yes, I did,” he said.In his conversation with Mr. Wallace, Mr. Putin took pains to diminish Mr. Trump’s stature as a businessman to insist that he would not have been a target for manipulation by Russia.The “St. Petersburg Economic Forum was visited by 500 businessmen,” Mr. Putin said of a meeting held in Russia. “Pretty much every one of them is a major industrial tycoon of greater scale than President Trump. Do you think that our Special Services actually organized surveillance on each and every of them?”

Supported byBy Dave PhilippsReality Winner, the former Air Force linguist and intelligence contractor who pleaded guilty in June to leaking a top-secret government report on Russian hacking, was sentenced on Thursday to five years and three months in federal prison.Ms. Winner, 26, is the first person to be sentenced under the Espionage Act since President Trump took office. Prosecutors said her sentence was the longest ever imposed in federal court for an unauthorized release of government information to the media.She was arrested in June 2017 and was held for more than a year while prosecutors built a case. She pleaded guilty in June 2018 to one felony count of unauthorized transmission of national defense information, for giving a classified report about Russian interference in the 2016 election to a news outlet.Prosecutors said on Thursday that Ms. Winner’s actions merited a stiff sentence.“Winner’s purposeful violation put our nation’s security at risk,” United States Attorney Bobby L. Christine told reporters after the sentencing in federal court in Augusta, Ga. He said the report she leaked revealed sources and methods of intelligence gathering, and its disclosure “caused exceptionally grave damage to U.S. national security.”He added that she “knowingly and intentionally betrayed the trust of her colleagues and her country,” and was “the quintessential example of an insider threat.”Ms. Winner was fresh out of the Air Force and a few months into a job as a translator for the National Security Agency in May 2017 when prosecutors say she printed a report from her work computer that detailed hacking attacks by a Russian intelligence service against local election officials and voter registration databases. She later told investigators that she smuggled the report out of the Augusta, Ga., offices of the contractor, Pluribus International, in her pantyhose, and then mailed it to the online news outlet The Intercept.Following a trail of clues, the F.B.I. soon arrested Ms. Winner two days before the Intercept published the classified report.Addressing Chief Judge J. Randall Hall in court on Thursday, Ms. Winner said she took “full responsibility” for the “undeniable mistake I made.” She said she “would like to apologize profusely” for her actions.Ms. Winner’s lawyers asked the judge to take into account in sentencing that she had served honorably in the Air Force, had been a top student and had no prior criminal record. “She is someone who has done something she should not have done — and knows she should not have done,” John Bell, one of Ms. Winner’s lawyers, told Judge Hall. “But she’s not an evil person.”Joe Whitley, a former federal prosecutor who was another of Ms. Winner’s lawyers, highlighted her military service, including assisting with more than 800 intelligence missions that he said had “removed” 100 enemies.Federal guidelines allowed for a sentence of up to 10 years, but prosecutors agreed in June to a sentence of 63 months, to avoid a trial that would require discussing classified reports and intelligence gathering techniques in open court. Prosecutors argued in a sentencing memorandum filed this week that such a trial “would compound the exceptionally grave harm to national security already caused by the defendant,” and that the plea agreement “reflects a fair resolution of the defendant’s criminal culpability. ”The judge imposed the sentence that prosecutors recommended.In federal leak cases, the sentences are generally aligned with the scale of damage done to national security, according to Robert Cattanach, a former lawyer in the Justice Department’s civil division who represented security agencies. He said Ms. Winner’s sentence seemed to be an outlier.“No one was endangered, no one’s identity was revealed, the Russians just learned that when they penetrate our systems, we can track them, which they already knew,” Mr. Cattanach said. “I think this kind of sentence, if anything, is designed to have a chilling effect.”The Justice Department prosecuted Ms. Winner under the Espionage Act, a World War I-era law that made it a crime to disclose secrets that could be used to harm the United States or aid a foreign adversary.Prosecutions under the law for leaking sensitive information to the news media, rather than to a foreign government, were once rare, and usually led to little if any prison time. But in recent years the Justice Department has been cracking down on such leaks.Perhaps the best-known leaker, Chelsea Manning, was tried and convicted in a military court-martial, not a civilian court, for sending a vast archive of military and diplomatic documents to WikiLeaks. She was sentenced to 35 years, but served only about seven years; President Obama commuted the remainder of her sentence.In 2013, a former F.B.I. agent was sentenced to 43 months for leaking classified information to The Associated Press about a foiled bomb plot in Yemen. That same year, a former C.I.A. agent, John Kiriakou, was given a 30-month sentence for revealing the identity of an undercover agent. In 2015, another former C.I.A. agent, Jeffrey Sterling, was sentenced to 42-months for leaking classified information to The New York Times about a secret operation to disrupt Iran’s nuclear program.[Read: A security breach and spilled secrets have shaken the N.S.A. to its core.]Ms. Winner, who grew up in Texas, seemed in some ways not to fit the popular image of someone who might try to circumvent the rules. A part-time yoga instructor who was fond of kale, owned rescued pets and drove a Nissan Cube with a bumper sticker saying “Be truthful, gentle and fearless,” she had passed several security screenings and had no history of disciplinary problems in the military.But prosecutors said in court filings that she was a savvy and well-trained analyst whose political beliefs drove her to violate security restrictions. They said that in the months before she leaked the report, Ms. Winner had downloaded software that helped her hide her web searches and communications; had expressed support for Edward J. Snowden, the N.S.A. contractor who leaked a trove of classified documents to WikiLeaks in 2013 and then took refuge in Russia; and had “repeatedly expressed contempt for the United States.”“It’s literally the worst thing to happen on the planet,” she said of the United States in a Facebook chat with her sister in February 2016, according to prosecutors. “We invented capitalism, the downfall of the environment.”When her sister asked if she really hated America, Ms. Winner replied yes, prosecutors said, though she added that her feeling was “mostly just about Americans’ obsession with air-conditioning.”According to prosecutors, she printed out the classified report on May 9, the day President Trump fired James Comey, the director of the F.B.I. At a detention hearing last year, a prosecutor, Jennifer G. Solari, said that Ms. Winner had been “mad about some things she had seen in the media, and she wanted to set the facts right.”Some advocacy groups have championed Ms. Winner as a whistle-blower, saying that the leak of the report alerted states to the dangers posed to elections by outside hackers — something that security agencies had been slow to do, according to a Senate report.The Intercept, which published the material that Ms. Winner leaked, contributed financially to her defense. In a statement on Thursday, the organization’s editor in chief, Betsy Reed, said Ms. Winner had done a public service.“The vulnerability of the American electoral system is a national topic of immense gravity, but it took Winner’s act of bravery to bring key details of an attempt to compromise the democratic process in 2016 to public attention,” Ms. Reed said. “Instead of being recognized as a conscience-driven whistle-blower whose disclosure helped protect U.S. elections, Winner was prosecuted with vicious resolve.”Under the plea agreement, Ms. Winner will be transferred to the Federal Bureau of Prisons’ medical center in Carswell, Tex., where she can receive treatment for bulimia and be relatively close to her family.Standing in front of the courthouse, one of her lawyers, Titus Nichols, disputed that her actions had been a “nefarious plot that she enacted to harm the country.” But he said that, in light of all the facts, he thought the sentence was fair.Max Blau contributed reporting.

Supported byBy Andrew E. Kramer and Liz AldermanMOSCOW — A Greek Supreme Court ruling Tuesday in a computer crime case may return to Russia, rather than extradite to the United States, a potential witness in the investigation into Russian hacking during the 2016 American presidential election.The Greek police detained the man, Aleksandr V. Vinnik, last year on an American warrant that accuses him of running a Moscow-based Bitcoin exchange that laundered as much as $4 billion in illegal funds.The warrant made no mention of election hacking. But Mr. Vinnik is accused of operating the exchange, BTC-e, at a time when, American prosecutors say, hackers used such funds to finance the electronic break-in at the Democratic National Committee and other targets. The practice was described in an indictment obtained by the special counsel investigating Russian election meddling, Robert S. Mueller III.Mr. Vinnik has been languishing in a Greek jail cell since July 2017, when the authorities arrested him as he was vacationing in a small beachside village in northern Greece. It was one of a series of American moves against Russians described as cybercriminals as they traveled.In Mr. Vinnik’s case and in two others in Spain and the Czech Republic, the Russian authorities countered with competing extradition requests asserting that the Russians had also committed crimes at home, and that they had not come to light before they left the country.Far-fetched as it may seem, the legal maneuver has worked. And it put European governments in a tug of war between Moscow and Washington over Russians suspected of being computer criminals. Spain and the Czech Republic eventually extradited the suspects to the United States.The American authorities had been pressing Greece to hand over Mr. Vinnik, and Greece initially appeared willing to comply. In October, a three-member panel of judges in the northern city of Thessaloniki backed the American extradition request.But since then, the case has taken on a series of unusual twists.After Mr. Vinnik’s lawyers filed an appeal to the Greek Supreme Court, France also demanded his extradition, claiming he had bilked around 100 French citizens by launching cyberattacks through his Bitcoin platform. In July, the judges in Thessaloniki reversed course and agreed to extradite him to France.That ruling dealt a fresh blow to the tenuous relations between Moscow and Athens, which has long courted Russia as an ally.Earlier that month, Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras had drawn Vladimir V. Putin’s wrath by expelling two Russian diplomats and refusing entry to two others. He acted after Athens said it had uncovered evidence of a Kremlin-backed campaign to manipulate regional politics.Mr. Tsipras accused Russia of fomenting raucous protest rallies in Greece and Macedonia over a referendum in Macedonia to change the country’s name, which would put it on a path to join NATO. Russia, which vigorously opposes an enlargement of the Western alliance, retaliated by expelling Greek diplomats, and accused Washington of “putting pressure” on Greece.When the Thessaloniki court then refused to hand Mr. Vinnik to Moscow, Russia’s foreign ministry warned it would consider reprisals.Mr. Tsipras’s government insisted it wanted to maintain friendly relations. And less than a month later, on July 30, the Thessaloniki court changed course again and accepted Russia’s request that Mr. Vinnik be extradited to Russia.On Tuesday, the Greek Supreme Court issued a preliminary ruling backing the decision. The court is scheduled to issue a final ruling next week. Greece’s justice minister will make the final decision on where Mr. Vinnik will be extradited.In an interview last year, Mr. Vinnik’s Russian lawyer, Timofey S. Musatov, said his client’s case in the United States was unrelated to electoral hacking. Russian prosecutors filed an extradition request on a fraud charge. Mr. Musatov could not be reached for comment Tuesday.In July, the special counsel investigating Russian interference in the 2016 election indicted 12 Russian intelligence officers and revealed details of their operation, including the use of computer servers paid for “using cryptocurrency.” At the time, Mr. Vinnik’s BTC-e platform was the largest virtual currency exchange in Russia.In the cases in Spain and the Czech Republic, relatives and Russian lawyers said the American authorities were seeking access to the suspects for information about election hacking, though the Department of Justice made no such assertions in indictments.A Russian lawyer representing one suspect, Yevgeniy A. Nikulin, wrote an open letter to President Trump warning that his client would be forced to falsely confess to election meddling if extradited to the United States from the Czech Republic. The wife of another suspect, Pyotr Y. Levashov, said the Spanish police told her at the time of the arrest that he was wanted in the United States for election hacking.The Department of Justice sought Mr. Nikulin over accusations that in 2012 he hacked three American technology companies: LinkedIn, Dropbox and Formspring. The allegations against Mr. Levashov related to the spam promotion of penny stocks and pharmaceuticals.Liz Alderman reported from Paris.

Supported byBy Maya SalamA California man suspected of accessing and defacing numerous military, government and business websites, including that of West Point’s Combating Terrorism Center and the New York City Comptroller’s Office, was arrested Thursday on computer fraud charges.Prosecutors believe that from 2015 through March 2018, Billy Ribeiro Anderson, under the online pseudonym AlfabetoVirtual, gained unauthorized access to computers and replaced publicly available content with the words “Hacked by AlfabetoVirtual,” “#freepalestine,” “#freegaza,” or some combination of the three. Hackers often claim responsibility for cybercrimes by adding their online pseudonyms to their defacements.“Billy Anderson allegedly used specialized computer skills and knowledge to hack important U.S. military and government websites, as well as over 11,000 other websites around the world,” Geoffrey S. Berman, the United States attorney for the Southern District of New York, said Thursday in a statement issued by the Department of Justice.Mr. Anderson, 41, of Torrance, Calif., faces three counts of computer fraud, and could face up to 21 years in prison if convicted on all charges.“Among other possible effects, website defacements can disrupt an organization’s operations and damage its credibility,” William F. Sweeney Jr., the assistant director in charge of the F.B.I.’s New York field office, said in the statement.In July 2015, security vulnerabilities in a website for the New York City comptroller were exploited, and AlfabetoVirtual claimed responsibility for the intrusion and defacement.In October 2016, AlfabetoVirtual claimed responsibility for defacing a website for the Combating Terrorism Center, an academic center at the United States Military Academy in West Point, N.Y.According to the complaint, the comptroller’s office ultimately paid more than $5,000 to fix the damage, and the United States government paid more than $7,000 to fix West Point’s site.Mr. Anderson’s lawyer could not be identified on Thursday, and Sagar K. Ravi, an assistant United States attorney who is expected to prosecute the case, could not immediately be reached.Tampering with websites in this way is probably the most common type of hacking, Levi Gundert, a former United States Secret Service special agent within the Los Angeles Electronic Crimes Task Force, said in an interview on Thursday. And those looking for holes in web servers can find “so many different ways in,” he said. “There are hundreds of people who do this regularly.”The behavior of AlfabetoVirtual, Mr. Gundert said, seemed to be primarily hacktivist activity intended to spread a message, and leaving mostly superficial damage. “He probably looked at it as a harmless hobby,” said Mr. Gundert, who now runs a threat intelligence research team at the internet technology company Recorded Future.It was probably the importance of the sites that were targeted and the sheer number of sites that were hit that led prosecutors to proceed with a case, he said.There’s a “ton of potential for real harm” when someone gains unauthorized access to web servers, said Mr. Gundert, who pointed out that the large-scale Equifax breach last year — which exposed the personal information of up to 145 million Americans — began with unauthorized access. “Organizations generally underestimate the damage that can be done.”

Supported byBy David D. KirkpatrickLONDON — A Saudi dissident close to the murdered journalist Jamal Khashoggi has filed a lawsuit charging that an Israeli software company helped the royal court take over his smartphone and spy on his communications with Mr. Khashoggi.The lawsuit puts new pressure on the company, the NSO Group, and on the government of Israel, which licenses the company’s sales to foreign governments of its spyware, known as Pegasus. More broadly, the suit also calls new attention to Israel’s increasingly open alliance with Saudi Arabia and other Persian Gulf monarchies.Saudi Arabia and its allies like the United Arab Emirates have never recognized the Jewish state but have quietly found common cause with it in opposition to Iran. Since the Arab Spring uprisings, Israel and those monarchies also appear to have found an alignment of interest in defending the established Arab order.The lawsuit, filed in Israel by the Montreal-based Saudi dissident Omar Abdulaziz, follows parallel suits by journalists, activists and others charging that the NSO Group improperly helped the governments of Mexico and the United Arab Emirates spy on their smartphones even though the individuals had no criminal records and posed no threat of violence.The human rights group Amnesty International has also recently accused the NSO Group of helping Saudi Arabia spy on a member of the organization’s staff. Amnesty said last week that it was considering legal action after the Israeli defense ministry rejected a request to revoke NSO Group’s license to export its spyware.“By continuing to approve of NSO Group, the Ministry of Defense is practically admitting to knowingly cooperating with NSO Group as their software is used to commit human rights abuses,” said Molly Malekar, the programs director of Amnesty International’s Israeli office.In a statement on Sunday, the NSO Group said its products were “licensed for the sole use of providing governments and law enforcement agencies the ability to lawfully fight terrorism and crime.”Contracts for use of its software “are only provided after a full vetting and licensing by the Israeli government,” the company said, adding: “We do not tolerate misuse of our products. If there is suspicion of misuse, we investigate it and take the appropriate actions, including suspending or terminating a contract.”The spyware allows its customers to secretly listen to calls, record keystrokes, read messages, and track internet history on a targeted phone. It also enables customers to use a phone’s microphone and camera as surveillance devices.Because of those sweepingly invasive capabilities, Israel classifies the spyware as a weapon. The company must obtain approval from the Defense Ministry for its sale to foreign governments. Saudi Arabia paid $55 million last year for its use, according to Israeli news reports.Mr. Abdulaziz, the plaintiff of the new lawsuit, is a 27-year-old Saudi who sought asylum in Canada and lives in Montreal. In the aftermath of the Arab Spring uprisings, he had become popular among Saudis for online videos and social media commentary criticizing the rulers of the kingdom for their authoritarianism. The consulting firm McKinsey &amp; Company identified him as an influential driver of dissent on social media.Over the last two months, he has also gained international attention because of his friendship and collaboration with Mr. Khashoggi, a Saudi exile living in Virginia who wrote columns for The Washington Post.Mr. Khashoggi was killed and dismembered in October in the Saudi consulate in Istanbul. American intelligence agencies and many Western officials have concluded that Saudi Arabia’s day-to-day ruler, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, authorized the assassination. He has denied authorizing the killing, and Saudi officials have said that a team of agents sent to retrieve Mr. Khashoggi decided on their own to kill him instead.The lawsuit claims that in the months before the killing, the royal court had access to Mr. Khashoggi’s communications about opposition projects with Mr. Abdulaziz because of the spyware on Mr. Abdulaziz’s phone.Mr. Abdulaziz has said he was also targeted by some of the operatives close to Prince Mohammed who have been linked to the Khashoggi killing as part of a campaign to bring home or silence Saudi dissidents abroad. After pestering him for months with messages urging him to return to the kingdom, two Saudi emissaries met him in Montreal last May to pressure him in person.Mr. Abdulaziz covertly recorded the conversations. “There are two scenarios,” one of the agents told him, referring to him in the third person as Omar. In the first option, “Omar is a beneficiary or a winner, because he is going back home,” an emissary told him. “The second side, the state, is a winner and is happy as well,” the emissary added, suggesting that the kingdom might pay also Mr. Abdulaziz large sums of money.If he declined, however, “Omar is a loser because he is going to jail,” the emissary said, and he said Mr. Abdulaziz might be apprehended at an airport. The Saudi emissaries said falsely that Mr. Khashoggi was also considering returning to the kingdom.The emissaries said they had been sent by Saud al-Qahtani, a close adviser to the crown prince who has been the target of United States sanctions for his alleged role in the Khashoggi killing. A statement announcing the sanctions also identified him as the supervisor of the intelligence agent who led that operation. But the emissaries made clear that their orders had ultimately come from the crown prince.They promised Mr. Abdulaziz that the day after he landed in Saudi Arabia he would meet with Prince Mohammed and could ask him for anything. They said they had already booked a hotel room for Mr. Abdulaziz in Jeddah.Mr. Abdulaziz declined to return to the kingdom and also refused a request to visit the Saudi embassy in Ottawa for further discussions. That request began to look more ominous after Mr. Khashoggi’s death in the Istanbul consulate, Mr. Abdulaziz has said.The next month, in June, he received a text message that looked like a link to track the shipment of a package but turned out to mask a link to the NSO Group’s spyware, according to court papers filed with the lawsuit.In August, a research group at the University of Toronto that studies online surveillance notified Mr. Abdulaziz that his phone might have been hacked. The research group, Citizen Lab, later concluded that the Saudi government was behind it.Around the same time as the arrival of the fake text message, Saudi security forces carried out a raid with search dogs in the middle of the night at the home of Mr. Abdulaziz’s family in Jeddah. Two of his brothers were arrested and remain in prison without charges, according to the court papers.Mr. Abdulaziz “has also learned that the security personnel in the detention center are using torture against them and are subjecting them to inhumane and humiliating treatment, all in order to put pressure on the plaintiff to force him to stop his activism,” the court papers state.It was also during the period after the spying began that Mr. Abdulaziz and Mr. Khashoggi stepped up their plans for various social media campaigns to counter Saudi government propaganda. Mr. Khashoggi sent Mr. Abdulaziz $5,000 to subsidize that effort.The lawsuit was filed by an Israeli lawyer, Alaa Mahajna, in cooperation with Mazen Masri, a lecturer at the City University of London.The lawyers say in the court papers that they intend to argue that the resulting exposure of the collaboration between Mr. Abdulaziz and Mr. Khashoggi “contributed in a significant manner to the decision to murder Mr. Khashoggi.”An earlier version of this article overstated what is known about a report by McKinsey &amp; Company about Omar Abdulaziz. Although the report identified him as an influential driver of dissent on social media, it is not clear whether that evaluation was shown to the royal court.Barbara Marcolini contributed reporting from New York.

Paul Manafort’s Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dad’s Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back”House Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City Hotline2011: Arab Spring‘Can The President Be Impeached?’ We Answer Your QuestionsCalving Season

International video coverage from The New York Times.Paul Manafort’s Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dad’s Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back”House Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City Hotline2011: Arab Spring‘Can The President Be Impeached?’ We Answer Your QuestionsCalving Season

Supported byBy Marc Santora and Hana de GoeijPRAGUE — A Russian man accused of hacking the systems of three American technology companies in 2012, possibly compromising the personal information of more than 100 million users, was extradited to the United States from the Czech Republic on Friday.The man, Yevgeniy A. Nikulin, appeared in Federal District Court in San Francisco after arriving in the city around 6 a.m. He pleaded not guilty to the charges against him. Magistrate Judge Jacqueline Scott Corley scheduled his next court appearance for next week.“This is deeply troubling behavior once again emanating from Russia,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said in a statement. “We will not tolerate criminal cyberattacks and will make it a priority to investigate and prosecute these crimes, regardless of the country where they originate.”Mr. Nikulin had been held in the Czech Republic since the authorities there arrested him in 2016. His case quickly turned into a battle between Washington and Moscow over whether he should be tried in the United States.He was arrested just two days before the Obama administration formally accused the Russian government of stealing and disclosing emails from the Democratic National Committee and other institutions and prominent individuals.In fighting Mr. Nikulin’s extradition to the United States, his lawyer had argued that the case against him was politically motivated. The Russian government argued separately that it had jurisdiction in the case after a Moscow court issued an arrest warrant for Mr. Nikulin in November 2016 in the 2009 theft of $3,450 via a website called WebMoney.More broadly, the Kremlin claims that the United States has unfairly targeted Russians around the world for political purposes. The Russian ambassador in Prague has said the case against Mr. Nikulin was an effort to “extend the jurisprudence of American law to the territory of third countries.”This year, Spain extradited to the United States two Russians suspected of hacking. Another Russian, Aleksandr V. Vinnik, is being held in Greece pending extradition requests from Washington and Moscow.Mr. Nikulin’s extradition was ordered by the Czech Ministry of Justice on Thursday.The charges were laid out in an indictment unsealed after he was arrested. He is accused of hacking into the computer networks at LinkedIn, Dropbox and Formspring; damaging computers used by LinkedIn and Formspring employees; and using their credentials for further intrusions.The charges include three counts of computer intrusion, two counts of causing damage to a protected computer, two counts of aggravated identity theft, one count of trafficking and one count of conspiracy. If convicted, Mr. Nikulin could be sentenced to more than 30 years in prison and fined more than $1 million.Mr. Nikulin’s arrest and court filings related to the case offered an early look into the shadowy world of Russian hacking. The American authorities say Russian hackers are able to act with impunity as long as they do not choose targets within their own country.The competing extradition claims by the United States and Russia caused a schism in the Czech government. President Milos Zeman, who has openly courted President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, pressed the Kremlin’s case. Andrej Babis, the acting prime minister, whose affinities lean more toward the West and NATO, said publicly that Mr. Nikulin should be sent to the United States.On a visit to Prague this week, Paul D. Ryan, the House speaker, argued that “we have every reason to believe and expect that Mr. Nikulin will be extradited to America.”“The United States has the case to prevail on having him extradited, whether it’s the severity of the crime, which is clearly on the side of U.S., or the timing of the request for the extradition,” Mr. Ryan told reporters on Tuesday.Katie Benner contributed reporting from Washington, and Sheera Frenkel from San Francisco.

Supported byThe social networking giant said attackers had exploited a weakness that enabled them to hijack the accounts of nearly 50 million users. Here are some tips for securing your account.By Brian X. ChenLead consumer technology writerFacebook said its engineers discovered a security weakness this week that could let attackers hijack people’s accounts. The vulnerability, which the company said had been fixed, affected nearly 50 million accounts. Facebook said in a web post that the security issue was related to the “View As” feature, which allows people to see a preview of what their profile looks like to other people, like specific friends. Hackers exploited a weakness in the tool to gain access to digital keys that let people access Facebook from a personal device without having to re-enter a password. The keys could then be used to take over people’s accounts, the company said.The social networking giant said that it had reset all the access keys for affected users and that those users would have to log back into their accounts. In other words, there is not much you have to do. But there are some precautions you should take to protect yourself from the attack.The best way to determine whether someone has gained improper access to your account is to do an audit of the devices that you have used to log into Facebook. On Facebook’s Security and Login page, under the tab labeled “Where You’re Logged in,” you can see a list of devices that are signed into your account, as well as their locations. If you see an unfamiliar gadget or a device signed in at an odd location, you can click the “Remove” button to boot the device out of your account.Facebook says that because it has fixed the vulnerability, there is no need to change your account password. But to be extra safe, you probably should anyway — especially if you use a weak password or saw any suspicious devices logged into your accounts.If you decide to change your password, choose a complex one — and do not reuse a password you have used on a different site. Try creating long and complex passwords consisting of nonsensical phrases or one-sentence summaries of strange life events and add numbers and special characters, like: My favorite number is Green4782#.To keep your passwords organized and easy to access, consider using a password-management app like 1Password or LastPass. These tools let you keep all your passwords in a digital vault that can be opened with one master password, and they can also automatically generate complex passwords.Like many sites, Facebook offers a security feature called two-factor authentication. It involves text messaging a unique code to your phone that you must type in after entering your password. This way, even if someone gained access to your password, it would be difficult to log in without that code. Even though Facebook fixed this week’s security vulnerability, every user should have this feature turned on.Brian X. Chen is the lead consumer technology writer. He reviews products and writes Tech Fix, a column about solving tech-related problems. Before joining The Times in 2011 he reported on Apple and the wireless industry for Wired.  @bxchen 

Supported byBy David D. Kirkpatrick and Azam AhmedThe rulers of the United Arab Emirates had been using Israeli spyware for more than a year, secretly turning the smartphones of dissidents at home or rivals abroad into surveillance devices.So when top Emirati officials were offered a pricey update of the spying technology, they wanted to make sure it worked, according to leaked emails submitted Thursday in two lawsuits against the spyware’s maker, the Israel-based NSO Group.Could the company secretly record the phones of the emir of Qatar, a regional rival, the Emiratis asked? How about the phone of a powerful Saudi prince who directed the kingdom’s national guard? Or what about recording the phone of the editor of a London-based Arab newspaper?“Please find two recordings attached,” a company representative wrote back four days later, according to the emails. Appended were two recordings the company had made of calls by the editor, Abdulaziz Alkhamis, who confirmed this week that he had made the calls and said he did not know he was under surveillance.The NSO Group’s actions are now at the heart of the twin lawsuits accusing the company of actively participating in illegal spying — part of a global effort to confront the growing arms race in the world of spyware.As private companies develop and sell cutting-edge surveillance technology to governments for tens of millions of dollars, human rights groups say the scant oversight over the practice invites rampant misuse. And no company is more central to the battle than the NSO Group, one of the best-known creators of spyware that invades smartphones.The two lawsuits, filed in Israel and Cyprus, were brought by a Qatari citizen and by Mexican journalists and activists who were all targeted by the company’s spyware.In Mexico, the NSO Group has sold the surveillance technology to the Mexican government on the explicit condition that it be used only against  criminals and terrorists. Yet some of the nation’s most prominent human rights lawyers, journalists and anti-corruption activists have been targeted instead. Many are now plaintiffs in the lawsuits.The government of Panama also purchased the spyware, and the president at the time used it to spy on his political rivals and critics, according to court documents in a case there.Whenever challenged, the company has said that it merely sells the technology to governments, which agree to deploy it exclusively against criminals but then operate it on their own.The new lawsuits include leaked documents and emails that directly challenge the company’s repeated assertions that it is not responsible for any illegal surveillance conducted by the governments that buy its spyware.In the case of the U.A.E., the lawsuits argue, an affiliate of the NSO Group attempted to spy on foreign government officials — and successfully recorded the calls of a journalist — at the request of its Emirati customers four years ago.The technology works by sending text messages to a target’s smartphone, hoping to bait the person into clicking on them. If the user does, the spyware, known as Pegasus, is secretly downloaded, enabling governments to monitor phone calls, emails, contacts and potentially even face-to-face conversations conducted nearby.For the U.A.E., documents show, an affiliate of the NSO Group specifically suggested language for the corrupting text messages. Many were tailored for the Persian Gulf with seemingly innocuous invitations like “Ramadan is near — incredible discounts” and “keep your car tires from exploding in the heat.”Leaked technical documents included in the lawsuits also show that the company helped its clients by transmitting the data gained through surveillance through an elaborate computer network.“We are pushing to make the law catch up with technology” and show that the spyware makers “are complicit in these privacy violations,” said Alaa Mahajna, an Israeli lawyer who filed the lawsuits in cooperation with Mazen Masri, a senior lecturer in law at the City University of London.The NSO group declined to comment until it could review the lawsuits. The Emirati Embassy in Washington did not respond to a request for comment.After The New York Times reported last year that prominent Mexican lawyers, journalists and anticorruption campaigners had been targeted by the NSO Group’s spyware, the Mexican government announced a federal investigation.But more than a year later, the investigation has made little apparent progress, so the Mexican journalists and human rights defenders joined the lawsuits to uncover more about the government’s hacking program.The lawsuits also shed new light on the political intrigues involving Israel and the Persian Gulf monarchies, which have increasingly turned to hacking as a favorite weapon against one another.The U.A.E. does not recognize Israel, but the two appear to have a growing behind-the-scenes alliance. Because Israel deems the spyware a weapon, the lawsuits note, the NSO Group and its affiliates could have sold it to the Emirates only with approval by the Israeli Defense Ministry.Leaked emails submitted in the lawsuits show that the U.A.E. signed a contract to license the company’s surveillance software as early as August 2013.A year and a half later, a British affiliate of the NSO Group asked its Emirati client to provide a sixth payment of $3 million under the original contract, suggesting a total licensing fee of at least $18 million over that period.An update the next year was sold through a different affiliate, based in Cyprus, at a cost of $11 million in four installments, according to leaked invoices.Tensions between the U.A.E. and its neighbor Qatar reached a boil in 2013 over a struggle for power in Egypt. Qatar had allied itself with the Egyptian Islamist movement that won the elections after the Arab Spring. Then the U.A.E. backed a military takeover that cast the Islamists into prison instead.In the escalating feud, each side accused the other of cyberespionage. Hackers broke into the email accounts of two outspoken opponents of Qatar — the Emirati ambassador to Washington, Yousef al-Otaiba, and an American Republican fund-raiser who does business with the U.A.E., Elliott Broidy. Mr. Broidy has filed a separate lawsuit accusing Qatar and its Washington lobbyists of conspiring to steal and leak his emails.Other hackers briefly took over the website of the Qatari news service to post a false report of an embarrassing speech by the emir to damage him, and later leaked Qatari emails exposing awkward details of Qatari negotiations over the release of a royal hunting party kidnapped in Iraq. Allies of Qatar blamed the Emiratis.The leaked emails disclosed in the new lawsuits may also have been stolen through hacking. Lawyers involved said the documents were provided by a Qatari journalist who did not disclose how he had obtained them.The messages show that the Emiratis were seeking to intercept the phone calls of the emir of Qatar as early as 2014.But the Emirati target list also included Saudi Arabia. In the email discussions about updating the NSO Group’s technology, the Emiratis asked to intercept the phone calls of a Saudi prince, Mutaib bin Abdullah, who was considered at the time to be a possible contender for the throne.The Emiratis have been active promoters of Prince Mutaib’s younger rival, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman. Last year, the crown prince removed Prince Mutaib from his role as minister of the national guard and ordered his temporary detention in connection with corruption allegations.In a telephone interview, Prince Mutaib expressed surprise that the Emiratis had attempted to record his calls.“They don’t need to hack my phone,” he said. “I will tell them what I am doing.”According to the emails, the Emiratis also asked to intercept the phone calls of Saad Hariri, who is now prime minister of Lebanon.Mr. Hariri has sometimes been accused of failing to push back hard enough against Hezbollah, the powerful Lebanese movement backed by Iran. Last year, the U.A.E.’s Saudi ally, Crown Prince Mohammed, temporarily detained Mr. Harari in Riyadh, the Saudi capital, and forced him to announce his resignation as prime minister. (He later rescinded the announcement, and he remains prime minister.)Mr. Alkhamis, who resigned in 2014 as the editor of the London-based newspaper Al Arab, called the surveillance of his phone calls “very strange” but not unexpected, since he had published “sensitive” articles about Persian Gulf politics.The U.A.E.’s use of the NSO Group’s spyware was first reported in 2016. Ahmed Mansoor, an Emirati human rights advocate, noticed suspicious text messages and exposed an attempt to hack his Apple iPhone. The U.A.E. arrested him on apparently unrelated charges the next year and he remains in jail.After Mr. Mansoor’s disclosures, Apple said it had released an update that patched the vulnerabilities exploited by the NSO Group. The NSO Group pledged to investigate and said in a statement that “the company has no knowledge of and cannot confirm the specific cases.”But other leaked documents filed with the lawsuits indicate that the U.A.E. continued to license and use the Pegasus software well after Apple announced its fix and the NSO Group pledged to investigate.On June 5, 2017, the U.A.E. and Saudi Arabia began a blockade of Qatar in an effort to isolate it. Ten days later, an internal Emirati email cited in the lawsuits referred to 159 members of the Qatari royal family, officials and others whose phones it had targeted with the NSO spyware, promising a report based on “what we found from the top 13 targets only.”“ur highness based on ur instructions we viewed the collecting from the Q phone targeting,” wrote an Emirati official identified in the lawsuits as an assistant to Prince Khalid bin Mohammed, the chairman of the Emirati intelligence agency and the son of the de facto ruler of the U.A.E., Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed.This month, Amnesty International said one of its staff members working in Saudi Arabia had also been targeted by spyware that appeared to be linked to the NSO Group, and the company reiterated that it bears no responsibility for its customers’ use of its spyware.“Our product is intended to be used exclusively for the investigation and prevention of crime and terrorism,” the company said in a statement to Amnesty, pledging to “investigate the issue and take appropriate action.”

Supported byBy Michael S. SchmidtWASHINGTON — It was one of the more outlandish statements in a campaign replete with them: In a news conference in July 2016, Donald J. Trump made a direct appeal to Russia to hack Hillary Clinton’s emails and make them public.“Russia, if you’re listening, I hope you’re able to find the 30,000 emails that are missing,” Mr. Trump said, referring to emails Mrs. Clinton had deleted from the private account she had used when she was secretary of state. “I think you will probably be rewarded mightily by our press.”As it turns out, that same day, the Russians — whether they had tuned in or not — made their first effort to break into the servers used by Mrs. Clinton’s personal office, according to a sweeping 29-page indictment unsealed Friday by the special counsel’s office that charged 12 Russians with election hacking.The indictment did not address the question of whether the Russians’ actions were actually in response to Mr. Trump. It said nothing at all about Mr. Trump’s request for help from Russia — a remark that had unnerved American intelligence and law enforcement officials who were closely monitoring Russia’s efforts to influence the election.[Read the indictment here.]But the indictment did offer some clues about what happened, implying that the hacking had occurred later on the day Mr. Trump issued his invitation. He made the statement around 10:30 a.m. July 27 at his golf course in Doral, Fla. It was late afternoon in Russia.“For example, on or about July 27, 2016, the conspirators attempted after-hours to spearphish for the first time email accounts at a domain hosted by a third-party provider and used by Clinton’s personal office,” according to the indictment, referring to spearphishing, a common tactic used to target email accounts.The indictment said that on the same day, Russians began an effort to target 76 Clinton campaign email accounts.An indictment from the special counsel investigating Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election explains how 12 Russian intelligence officers hacked the Democratic National Committee and Hillary Clinton’s campaign.Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general and the Justice Department official overseeing the investigation by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, said the authorities were not alleging in the indictment that Americans had knowingly been in contact with the Russians about the hacking.“The conspirators corresponded with several Americans during the course of the conspiracy through the internet,” Mr. Rosenstein said. “There’s no allegation in this indictment that the Americans knew they were corresponding with Russian intelligence officers.”Investigators for Mr. Mueller would like to ask Mr. Trump what he knew about the hackings. The president has refused for several months to sit for an interview.At the 2016 news conference, Mr. Trump made a series of statements on Russia and raised questions about whether the Kremlin had actually been behind the earlier hacking of emails from the Democratic National Committee. Emails from the committee had been made public days before, on the eve of the Democratic National Convention, creating a significant distraction as the party formally nominated Mrs. Clinton.“Nobody even knows this, it’s probably China, or it could be somebody sitting in his bed,” Mr. Trump said about possible perpetrators of the hackings. “But it shows how weak we are, it shows how disrespected we are. Total — assuming it’s Russia or China or one of the major countries and competitors, it’s a total sign of disrespect for our country. Putin and the leaders throughout the world have no respect for our country anymore, and they certainly have no respect for our leader.”Mr. Trump also signaled then that he would be open to recognizing Russia’s annexation of Crimea from Ukraine. The Obama administration and the European Union had considered the seizure illegal and imposed sanctions.“We’ll be looking at that,” Mr. Trump said when asked if he would recognize Crimea as Russian land and lift sanctions that had been imposed after the annexation. “Yeah, we’ll be looking.”He still is, if his recent statements are any indication, as he prepares to meet one-on-one with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia early next week in Finland.Doris Burke and Alain Delaquérière contributed research.

Supported byBy Michael Wines and Julian E. BarnesWASHINGTON — Senior Trump administration officials warned on Thursday that Russia is trying to interfere in November’s midterm elections and the 2020 presidential election and vowed to combat Moscow’s aggression.The high-profile alarm sounded at the daily White House briefing was striking for the officials’ unequivocal warnings, a departure from President Trump’s fumbling acknowledgments that Moscow undertook an influence campaign in 2016 to exploit partisan divisions in the American electorate and sow discord.“This is a threat we need to take extremely seriously and to tackle and respond to with fierce determination and focus,” said the F.B.I. director, Christopher A. Wray.Here is what you need to know about Russia’s interference and American efforts to fight it.Russia is trying to spread propaganda on hot-button issues using social media, Dan Coats, the director of national intelligence, has said, highlighting what he called persistent and pervasive efforts. Moscow’s strategy, he said, is to exacerbate sociopolitical divisions.Mr. Coats again singled out Russia on Thursday, saying its disinformation campaign is ongoing. “We continue to see a pervasive messaging campaign by Russia to try to weaken and divide the United States,” Mr. Coats said at the White House. Mr. Wray also cited attempts to manipulate news stories, spread disinformation and escalate divisive issues.Intelligence and law enforcement officials are also looking out for voter suppression efforts, illegal campaign financing, hacks targeting elected officials and voting infrastructure, he said.The target of most Russian activity, intelligence officials say, is social media and other digital avenues for spreading disinformation. Facebook said this week that it had shut down 32 pages and accounts suspected of having ties to Russia.As for computer security, experts see political campaigns as vulnerable, particularly in state and local elections, where campaigns frequently lack the money and expertise to forestall attacks. Microsoft detected spear-phishing attacks, apparently by Russian intelligence, targeting computers of two 2018 election candidates, a senior company official said last month; Senator Claire McCaskill, a Missouri Democrat seeking re-election, said last week that her Senate office computer network was one of them.“I hope I’m wrong. But I think we’ll see attacks on campaigns in which the Russians in particular have already stolen information,” said Eric Rosenbach, an intelligence veteran and cybersecurity expert at Harvard University’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs.Nationally, the two major political parties stepped up security after the 2016 breach of computers at the Democratic National Committee and Hillary Clinton’s presidential campaign.Voting machines, often described as old, insecure and lacking a paper trail, are more secure than widely understood. Four in five Americans vote on machines that incorporate paper ballots or backups. Many state voter-registration databases also have been hardened against outside attack since 2016. While it is possible to hack voting devices to rig an election, experts say, intruding into enough of them to change the outcome would be extremely difficult.Election officials and the Department of Homeland Security set up a council to coordinate the response to threats, and the department offers security scans, equipment and other services to election officials nationwide. Top state election officials are gaining security clearances to see and assess threats, and in February, all 50 states and more than 1,000 localities opened a center to exchange data. Virtually every state has taken steps to lock down its election processes.A public-private committee has also approved a new standard for voting equipment that will significantly improve security. More voting machines than ever have verifiable paper backups, and nearly all should have them by 2020, said David J. Becker, the director of the Center for Election Innovation and Research. States also are adopting more advanced auditing techniques for vote counts.The most important work the intelligence community has done, according to current and former officials, is to penetrate foreign networks and spy on Russian groups conducting the attacks. The agencies have also monitored networks in the United States to try to detect information campaigns as they begin.“They are gathering intelligence,” said Michael Sussmann, a former Justice Department official who is now a partner at Perkins Coie. “They are trying to figure out what our adversaries are planning and what is being done. That includes penetrating foreign networks and other kinds of spying they do. And they are doing surveillance on U.S. networks to detect influence of all kinds.”Intelligence agencies are working more closely with technology companies, though some firms have said too little intelligence has been shared, hampering Silicon Valley’s efforts to detect threats and warn Americans.Mr. Coats has said the intelligence agencies and White House consider threats to the electoral system a top priority. Mr. Coats has called not just on technology companies to boost protections but also to make sure Americans take steps to verify the information they consume. “It is essential that we all apply critical thinking to all sorts of information,” he said.Mr. Coats’s appearance at the White House was important for informing the public, said Laura Rosenberger, a former Obama administration official and the director of the Alliance for Securing Democracy. “Building resiliency in the population is really important to inoculate against the effect of some of this,” she said.Cybersecurity experts praised Thursday’s briefing as an important step to bringing high-level focus to the fight against interference. But they said that to deter Russia, Moscow needs to believe that the United States will impose costs beyond the sanctions and other punishments it has doled out, and that requires Mr. Trump to make clear he will act against interference.“If you are going to stop what is going on, that could require a presidential-level decision,” Mr. Sussmann said.An earlier version of this article misspelled on a second reference the last name of a former Justice Department official. He is Michael Sussmann, not Sussman.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.

Supported byBy David D. KirkpatrickLONDON — Lawyers for Elliott Broidy, a Republican fund-raiser close to President Trump, on Monday filed a lawsuit accusing the government of Qatar of hacking into his emails and conspiring with Washington lobbyists to besmirch his reputation.The lawsuit is one of the first high-profile attempts to hold a foreign government accountable in American courts for cyberespionage. It comes at a time when hacking is becoming an increasingly common tool among a growing number of states seeking to punish enemies or achieve political goals.“This suit is the first of its kind,” said Lee Wolosky, a lawyer for Mr. Broidy.Mr. Broidy, a Los Angeles investor, has been an antagonist of Qatar in Washington. He has accused it of supporting Islamist extremism, and he has provided millions of dollars in financial support for think-tank conferences amplifying those criticisms. He has made the same arguments to Mr. Trump and Republican lawmakers.At the same time, Mr. Broidy also owns a defense contractor, Circinus L.L.C., that in the past year signed a contract worth more than $200 million with the United Arab Emirates and is pursuing another large contract with Saudi Arabia. Both countries are engaged in a bitter dispute with Qatar, the home to a major American military base and vast natural gas deposits.Several recent news articles, including three on the front page of The New York Times, have called attention to the overlap of Mr. Broidy’s political advocacy and his business interests. They describe what appear to be his promises of access to the Trump administration or congressional Republicans as he sought lucrative contracts with various foreign governments.Most of those articles, including those in The Times, relied in part on copies of emails from Mr. Broidy’s account that were provided to journalists by an anonymous group critical of his views about the Middle East.Representatives of Mr. Broidy immediately suspected Qatar of stealing his emails, in part because the private emails of at least one other high-profile foe of Qatar — Yousef al-Otaiba, the Emirati ambassador to Washington — have also been hacked and disseminated to journalists in a similar fashion. The hack required a level of resources and sophistication that suggested a state was responsible.“This is a case about a hostile intelligence operation undertaken by a foreign nation on the territory of the United States against successful, influential United States citizens,” the lawyers for Mr. Broidy charged in a lawsuit filed in United States District Court for the Central District of California.In a statement, a spokesman for Qatar said the suit was “without merit or fact.” The spokesman, Jassim al-Thani, of the Qatari Embassy in Washington, called Mr. Broidy’s lawsuit “a transparent attempt to divert attention from U.S. media reports about his activities.”The lawsuit charges that the attack began last Dec. 27, when Mr. Broidy’s wife, Robin Rosenzweig, received an email that appeared to be a security alert from Google. She entered her password as the alert requested. It turned out to be a phishing attack, according to the lawsuit, and the information she provided was used to get access to her account, Mr. Broidy’s and that of his company, Broidy Capital Management.After the emails began appeared in the news media, Mr. Broidy retained a team of cyberforensic experts, including at least one former American intelligence official. According to the lawsuit, their initial analysis indicated that the attacks appeared to originate from computer servers in Britain and the Netherlands, but the researchers later concluded that the addresses of those servers had been used to mask another point of origin.“A more thorough review of the server data” showed that for a brief time on one day — Feb. 14, 2018 — “problems with the attackers obfuscation techniques” had “revealed that the attack originated in Qatar.”The lawsuit also claims that a Republican lobbyist, Nicolas D. Muzin of Stonington Strategies, conspired with Qatar to exploit the hacked emails to damage Mr. Broidy’s reputation. Stonington Strategies is registered as a foreign agent of Qatar, and the lawsuit says that Qatar pays him $300,000 a month. Qatar spent nearly $5 million on Washington lobbyists and media relations during the six months that ended last October, according to the Center for Responsive Politics.Mr. Muzin has reportedly courted Jewish leaders and others by offering them trips to Doha, the capital of Qatar. “Starting last year, the State of Qatar, Muzin, and other foreign agents conspired in a strategic campaign to retaliate against and discredit Plaintiff Broidy,” the lawsuit claims. It specifically accused Qatar of orchestrating the hacking after Mr. Muzin “identified Plaintiff Broidy as an individual who was opposing the State of Qatar’s efforts to improve its image and relationships in Washington, D.C. and who was aligned with its regional rivals, the UAE and Saudi Arabia.”In a statement, Mr. Muzin said, “Mr. Broidy’s lawsuit is an obvious attempt to draw attention away from his controversial work, and is as flimsy as the promises he reportedly made to his clients.”

Supported byBy Kim ZetterIn 2011, the election board in Pennsylvania’s Venango County — a largely rural county in the northwest part of the state — asked David A. Eckhardt, a computer science professor at Carnegie Mellon University, to examine its voting systems. In municipal and state primaries that year, a few voters had reported problems with machines ‘‘flipping’’ votes; that is, when these voters touched the screen to choose a candidate, the screen showed a different candidate selected. Errors like this are especially troubling in counties like Venango, which uses touch-screen voting machines that have no backup paper trail; once a voter casts a digital ballot, if the machine misrecords the vote because of error or maliciousness, there’s little chance the mistake will be detected.Eckhardt and his colleagues concluded that the problem with the machines, made by Election Systems &amp; Software (ES&amp;S), was likely a simple calibration error. But the experts were alarmed by something else they discovered. Examining the election-management computer at the county’s office — the machine used to tally official election results and, in many counties, to program voting machines — they found that remote-access software had been installed on it.Remote-access software is a type of program that system administrators use to access and control computers remotely over the internet or over an organization’s internal network. Election systems are supposed to be air-gapped — disconnected from the internet and from other machines that might be connected to the internet. The presence of the software suggested this wasn’t the case with the Venango machine, which made the system vulnerable to hackers. Anyone who gained remote access to the system could use the software to take control of the machine. Logs showed the software was installed two years earlier and used multiple times, most notably for 80 minutes on November 1, 2010, the night before a federal election.The software, it turns out, was being used not by a hacker but by an authorized county contractor working from home. Still, the arrangement meant anyone who might gain control of the contractor’s home computer could use it to access and gain control of the county’s election system.It was just another example of something that Eckhardt and other experts had suspected for many years: that many critical election systems in the United States are poorly secured and protected against malicious attacks.In the 15 years since electronic voting machines were first adopted by many states, numerous reports by computer scientists have shown nearly every make and model to be vulnerable to hacking. The systems were not initially designed with robust security in mind, and even where security features were included, experts have found them to be poorly implemented with glaring holes.But for as long as experts have warned about security problems, voting machine makers and election officials have denied that the machines can be remotely hacked. The reason, they say, is that the systems are not connected to the internet — an assurance the public has largely accepted. This defense was never more loudly expressed than in 2016, when the government disclosed that Russian hackers were probing American voter-registration systems and had breached at least one of them. Concerned that hacking fears could make the public less likely to vote, the United States Election Assistance Commission and state election officials rushed to assert that there was no need to worry about the votes because voting machines themselves were isolated from the internet.The reality, as the incident in Venango County makes clear, is far more complicated.Venango removed the remote-access software and isolated its system after Eckhardt and colleagues pointed out the security risk. But it’s likely that the software is still installed on other election systems around the country. ES&amp;S has in the past sometimes sold its election-management system with remote-access software preinstalled, according to one official; and where it wasn’t preloaded, the company advised officials to install it so ES&amp;S technicians could remotely access the systems via modem, as Venango County’s contractor did, to troubleshoot and provide maintenance. An ES&amp;S contract with Michigan from 2006 describes how the company’s tech support workers used remote-access software called pcAnywhere to access customer election systems. And a report from Allegheny County, Pennsylvania, that same year describes pcAnywhere on that county’s election-management system on June 2 when ES&amp;S representatives spent hours trying to reconcile vote discrepancies in a local district race that took place during a May 16th primary. An Allegheny County election official told me that remote-access software came pre-installed on their ES&amp;S election-management system.(In a statement, ES&amp;S said, ‘‘None of the employees who reviewed this response, including long-tenured employees, has any knowledge that our voting systems have ever been sold with remote-access software.’’)Installing remote-access software and modems on systems that program voting machines and tally final results is a serious security issue and one that election officials are beginning to understand, as evidenced by Venango’s response to Eckhardt’s warning. But there’s an even more fundamental way that many voting machines themselves are being connected to the internet and put at risk of hacking, and there’s no sign that election officials at the state or federal level are aware the risk exists.On election nights, many polling places around the country transmit voting results to their county election offices via modems embedded in or connected to their voting machines. Election officials and vendors insist that the modem transmissions are safe because the connections go over phone lines and not the internet. But as security experts point out, many of the modems are cellular, which use radio signals to send calls and data to cell towers and routers belonging to mobile carriers — Verizon, Sprint, AT&amp;T. These routers are technically part of the internet. Even when analog (landline) modems are used instead of cellular ones, the calls still likely pass through routers, because phone companies have replaced much of their analog switching equipment in recent years with digital systems.Because of this, attackers could theoretically intercept unofficial results as they’re transmitted on election night — or, worse, use the modem connections to reach back into election machines at either end and install malware or alter election software and official results.‘‘Almost any phone call, whether on a cellular network or a so-called landline, goes through a part of the internet,’’ says Andrew Appel, a computer-science professor at Princeton University and longtime voting-machine security expert. ‘‘It may be a part that’s supposedly behind the walls of some phone provider,’’ Appel added. But, he said, ‘‘if the security of the phone provider is not perfect — and nobody’s security is perfect — then that phone call can be interfered with like any other transmission on the internet.’’How could someone pull this off? To subvert machines via their modem connection, an attacker could set up a device known as an IMSI-catcher (or stingray, as they’re also called) near precincts or county election offices to intercept and alter vote tallies as they’re transmitted. IMSI-catchers — which law enforcement, militaries and spies use — impersonate legitimate cell towers and trick phones and other devices in their vicinity into connecting to them instead of legitimate towers.Alternatively, a hacker could subvert telecom routers to intercept and alter election results as they pass through telecom equipment. Like any other digital device, telecom routers have vulnerabilities, and they have become a prime target in recent years for nation-state hackers from Russia and other countries. In 2012, hackers from Britain’s GCHQ spy agency targeted routers belonging to the Belgian telecom Belgacom to intercept mobile traffic passing through them.In either scenario, experts say, attackers could also potentially use an IMSI-catcher or subverted telecom router to hack back into election systems and alter software to affect election outcomes.The Election Assistance Commission, which oversees testing and certification of voting machines and advises states to isolate election systems from the internet, has said modems aren’t a problem. ‘‘The caution about not permitting network access does not apply to the use of modems on election night to transmit unofficial polling place results to the central office,’’ the commission’s election guidelines state. ‘‘The technical expertise required to intercept and alter a telephone communication without detection is extremely complex. Therefore, it is unlikely that anyone will be able to intercept and alter these results without detection.’’The document doesn’t address the risk of someone hacking into voting machines via the modem, but vendors insist that the machines have protections to prevent this. Election officials also assert that routine procedures they perform would detect if someone altered transmitted votes or machine software. Experts, however, say the procedures are inadequate to detect altered software, and that vendor claims about security can’t be trusted, because of their long history of implementing security poorly. Federal labs responsible for certifying voting equipment don’t test the vulnerability of the modems to hacking, so there’s no independent verification of vendor claims.‘‘What I’ve seen in the past 10 years is that the vendors have absolutely fumbled every single attempt in security,’’ says Jacob D. Stauffer, vice president of operations for Coherent Cyber, who has conducted voting-machine security assessments for California’s secretary of state for a decade. In a report Stauffer and colleagues published last year about their recent assessment of ES&amp;S machines, they found the voting machines and election-management systems to be rife with security problems.With Russia expected to intensify efforts to influence American elections this year and beyond, American election security has never been in sharper relief. But experts say that blindness to the risks posed by modems puts the integrity of American elections in grave danger.‘‘The incorrect assertion that voting machines or voting systems can’t be hacked by remote attackers because they are ‘not connected to the internet’ is not just wrong, it’s damaging,’’ says Susan Greenhalgh, a spokeswoman for the National Election Defense Coalition, an elections integrity group. ‘‘This oft-repeated myth instills a false sense of security that is inhibiting officials and lawmakers from urgently requiring that all voting systems use paper ballots and that all elections be robustly audited.’’More than 350,000 voting machines are used in the United States today, according to an estimate by Verified Voting, a nonprofit that tracks voting equipment use and policy. The machines fall primarily into two categories — direct-recording electronic machines and optical-scan systems. With DREs, voters touch a screen or button or turn a dial to make their selections, and the ballots and votes are entirely digital; some DREs are outfitted with printers to produce a voter-verifiable paper trail. With optical-scan machines, which many states have purchased in recent years to replace their DREs, voters make their selections on a full-size paper ballot, which gets fed into an optical scanner and can be used after an election to verify the digital results. (Hybrid machines are also available which combine touch-screen voting with a scannable paper ballot.)With both kinds of voting systems, digital votes are stored on memory cards or flash drives that are collected from machines after an election and are supposed to be used for official results. But many machines also have embedded or externally connected modems to transmit unofficial results rapidly on election night.The top voting machine maker in the country, ES&amp;S, distributes modems or modeming capability with many of its DRE and optical-scan machines. (Some states, including California and New York, require voting machine makers to not only remove communication devices from their systems but also eliminate communications capability from their software for security.) About 35,000 of ES&amp;S’s newest precinct-based optical scanner, the DS200, are used in 31 states and the District of Columbia and can be outfitted with either analog or cellular modems to transmit results. Maryland, Maine, Rhode Island and the District of Columbia use only DS200 machines statewide (though they also use two other systems specifically for disabled voters and absentee ballots); Florida and Wisconsin use the DS200s in dozens of counties, and other states use them to lesser degrees. ES&amp;S’s earlier model M100 optical scanners, which also can be equipped with modems, have long been used in Michigan — a critical swing state in the 2016 presidential election — though the state is upgrading to DS200 machines this year, as well as machines made by Dominion Voting Systems. Dominion’s machines use external serial-port modems that are connected to machines after an election ends.Not every polling place with embedded modems uses them to transmit results. Richard Rydecki, Wisconsin’s state elections supervisor, says counties in his state decide individually whether to transmit election results. Fred Woodhams, spokesman from the Michigan Department of State, said the same is true in his state. But even if a precinct doesn’t use its modems, having them embedded in voting machines is still a risk, experts say.“If it is available for use” by an attacker, says Stauffer, “it can be used.”ES&amp;S insists that its security measures would prevent hackers exploiting or interfering with modem transmissions. According to a one-page document the company provided, the voting machines digitally sign voting results before transmitting them via modem and encrypt them in transit using SFTP — secure file transfer protocol. The election-management systems that receive results then check the signature to authenticate the data transmission. This theoretically means results couldn’t be swapped out and replaced with different ones. That is, unless an attacker can obtain ES&amp;S’s signing key.These keys, explains noted cryptographer and computer-security expert Matt Blaze, ‘‘need to be stored in the machine, and if they’re stored in the machine and under control of the software, any compromise of that software could be used potentially to extract” them. Blaze, who teaches at the University of Pennsylvania, says that ES&amp;S machines he examined for Ohio’s secretary of state a decade ago had a number of security problems, including with key security.As for using the modems to hack into machines and compromise their software, ES&amp;S says its modems are configured to only initiate calls, not receive them, and can make calls only after an election ends, preventing anyone from dialing in or having them dial out at other times. The company also says results are not sent directly to the election-management systems but to a data communications server that operates as a DMZ, or ‘‘demilitarized zone,’’ separated from the internet and the election-management system by firewalls. The election-management system accesses the DMZ to collect the results.ES&amp;S advises election officials to configure the external firewall that protects the DMZ to only accept connections from IP addresses assigned to the voting machines. And election officials in Rhode Island, which uses ES&amp;S’s DS200 machines with modems, told me that the modems only transmit for about a minute, which wouldn’t be sufficient to hack into voting machines or results servers.But Stauffer and others say none of this would prevent a skilled hacker from penetrating the machines via their modems. Although overwriting the machine’s firmware, or voting software, would be difficult to do in just a minute, Stauffer says installing malware on the underlying operating system would not. An attacker might be able to do this directly through the modem to the voting machine, or infect the election-management system on the other end and install malware that gets passed to voting machines when officials program future elections. In either case, the malware could disable modem controls on the voting machines and make the devices secretly dial out to whatever number an attacker wants whenever he wants, while also altering system logs to erase evidence of these calls. This would let an attacker connect to the machines before or during an election to install malicious voting software that subverts results.In such a scenario, the demilitarized zone concept, which ES&amp;S says protects the election-management system, could actually become a liability, since it’s trusted by the election-management systems that communicate with it, says J. Alex Halderman, professor of computer science and engineering at the University of Michigan. Halderman calls the DMZ a ‘‘very risky setup in an election context, given that an attacker who infiltrates the EMS can tamper with election results or spread malware to voting machines.’’The firewalls surrounding the DMZ can have their own vulnerabilities, and Halderman points out that if an attacker can send corrupt data through the firewall to the DMZ, then he can exploit vulnerabilities in the election-management system when the two communicate. This isn’t speculation, Halderman insists: A study done in 2007 for Ohio found multiple vulnerabilities in ES&amp;S’s Unity election management system that would let an attacker send it malformed election data in order to run malicious code on the system. ‘‘The fact that these election management systems are networked at all should be alarming to anyone who understands election cybersecurity,’’ Halderman says.A secure voting machine should prevent untrusted or unsigned software from being installed on it. But last year when Stauffer and colleagues examined an optical-scan machine that ES&amp;S submitted to California for testing and certification, they discovered the system wasn’t authenticating code during installation or wasn’t doing it properly. They were able to modify legitimate ES&amp;S election software and reinstall it on the machine unsigned. Although they conducted their test with physical access to the machines, because California machines don’t have embedded modems, Stauffer says an adversary with remote access through the modem would theoretically be able to do the same. Their rogue modification was designed to erase all election data from the machine at the close of an election. A ‘‘capable-enough adversary,’’ says Stauffer, might potentially go much further, with an update that would ‘‘make a candidate more favorable than the other.’’Douglas W. Jones, a computer-science professor at the University of Iowa, has examined multiple voting systems for state and local election officials over the years. ‘‘Nothing I know about the machines would defend against’’ an attack where a hacker altered voting software.. ‘‘So this is a vulnerability that should be taken quite seriously.’’Even if ES&amp;S were to prevent someone from loading unsigned voting software, an attacker could still install malware on a voting or election-management machine via the modem connection, according to experts, if the underlying operating system software had unpatched security vulnerabilities. In fact, many voting machines across the country run on years-old unpatched Windows and Linux operating systems, partly because counties don’t have the staff to maintain the systems and have long believed that the systems are secure, and partly because (due to long delays in getting new or altered versions of voting machines certified) voting machine vendors often sell systems without the latest patches installed.The operating systems on the election-management systems ES&amp;S submitted to California for testing and certification last year were missing dozens of critical security patches, including one for the vulnerability the WannaCry ransomware used to spread among Windows machines. Two optical-scan machines ES&amp;S submitted for certification had nine unpatched security vulnerabilities between them — all classified by the security industry as critical.Just last month, Cisco, which makes the model of firewall used with ES&amp;S election-management systems, announced a critical vulnerability in its devices that would let a remote hacker take full control of the firewalls and get at the systems they protect. News reports last week indicated hackers are already attempting to exploit vulnerable Cisco firewalls in the wild.ES&amp;S says it’s working with customers to patch their firewalls, but if they use the firewalls ‘‘according to recommended procedures,’’ they can mitigate the vulnerability. Those procedures include configuring the firewalls to only accept connections from known and trusted IP addresses ‘‘and shutting off the system when not in use.’’Jones says the better solution is for states to seriously reassess their use of modems if they want to protect upcoming elections, particularly because hackers wouldn’t need to successfully alter voting machine software to have a detrimental effect; they could just leave behind evidence that they got in.‘‘This is an extraordinarily powerful tool if all you want to do is simply discredit democracy,’’ Jones says. ‘‘All you have to do is create the appearance of something having happened, even if it hasn’t happened.’’Kim Zetter has covered cybersecurity for more than a decade. She is the author of ‘‘Countdown to Zero Day: Stuxnet and the Launch of the World’s First Digital Weapon.’’Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine delivered to your inbox every week.

Supported byBy Nathaniel Popper and Matthew RosenbergSAN FRANCISCO — In early 2016, Russian intelligence officers obtained a new pool of the virtual currency Bitcoin. They quickly put the digital money to work.The Russian spies used some of the Bitcoins to pay for the registration of a website, dcleaks.com, where they would later post emails that had been stolen from Hillary Clinton’s presidential campaign. When the operatives needed a computer server to host the dcleaks site, they paid for that with Bitcoins as well.The transactions were detailed in an indictment on Friday from the Justice Department, in which prosecutors accused 12 Russian operatives of interfering in the 2016 presidential campaign through a sophisticated hacking scheme.The indictment provided one of the clearest illustrations to date of the inner workings of the Russian operation that carried out the hacking of the Democratic Party and other targets. It also showed how cryptocurrencies — and the anonymity they provide — have become both a tool and a challenge for intelligence agencies in the battles between nation states.“This is the first clear example in court documents of cryptocurrency being used to purchase capabilities that could be leveraged in attacks on national security,” said Jonathan Levin, a co-founder of Chainalysis, a firm that helps governments track cryptocurrency payments.Financial transactions have been one of the trickiest parts of intelligence operations because electronic payment networks and checks are generally off limits to undercover spies. That has led to famous scenes of covert exchanges of suitcases full of cash.The Bitcoin network allows anyone to move millions of dollars across the world without any in-person meetings, and without the approval of any financial institutions. First released in 2009 by its mysterious creator, Satoshi Nakamoto, Bitcoin was designed to operate without any central authority that could block transactions or verify the identities of the people involved.All Bitcoin transactions and wallets are recorded on a database known as the blockchain, by a network of computers that anyone can join. The unusual structure has long made Bitcoin a primary means of payment for drugs on online black markets, and more recently as a method for making ransom payments.When Bitcoin’s price spiked last year, many big financial institutions took an interest in the virtual currency as a new kind of investment and have looked to move it away from its unsavory associations. But Friday’s allegations are likely to make that effort more difficult.While the Russians accused of attacking Ms. Clinton’s campaign also used traditional currencies, the indictment said they had “principally used Bitcoin when purchasing servers, registering domains and otherwise making payments in furtherance of hacking activity.”Bitcoin, the indictment added, “allowed the conspirators to avoid direct relations with traditional financial institutions, allowing them to evade greater scrutiny of their identities and sources of funds.”The Russians took several steps to obscure their Bitcoin transactions, according to the indictment. They bought some Bitcoins on so-called peer-to-peer exchanges, where buyers and sellers can interact directly without exchanges collecting details on either side.The Russians also created Bitcoins themselves through the process known as mining, the indictment said. With mining, computers compete to unlock new Bitcoins by solving difficult computational problems. This requires expensive equipment and lots of electricity, but that was apparently not a hindrance to the Russians.The operatives used the Bitcoins to pay for much of the computer infrastructure that was employed in the hacking attacks, the indictment said. That included payments for a server in Malaysia that hosted dcleaks.com, and money sent to a Romanian company that registered the domain name.In March 2016, the indictment said, the Russians also used Bitcoin to buy a so-called virtual private network account that allowed them to obscure their internet protocol address and their location when they went online. They used that VPN account to operate a Twitter account known as Guccifer_2, which became infamous after releasing some of the emails stolen from the Democratic National Committee and of the chairman of the Clinton campaign, John D. Podesta.The Russians also used Bitcoin to pay for the servers from which they launched malware campaigns and “spearphishing” attacks against the Democratic National Committee, according to the indictment. In those attacks, it said, the Russian operatives gained control of the email accounts of American officials.American investigators were able to use the blockchain to go back and identify some of the transactions that Russian agents made. But it was not enough to stop them from making the transactions at the time.“The fact that cryptocurrencies are global and real time means that you might only find out about these things after the fact,” Mr. Levin said. “We need to think about the responsibilities that we all have in a world where payments move seamlessly across borders in the blink of an eye.”Follow Nathaniel Popper and Matthew Rosenberg on Twitter: @nathanielpopper and @AllMattNYT.Nathaniel Popper reported from San Francisco, and Matthew Rosenberg from Washington.

Supported byBy David D. KirkpatrickLONDON — A cyberwar in the Persian Gulf reverberated in the United States this week as a top Republican fund-raiser accused agents for Qatar of hacking into his email to plant damaging articles in the American news media.The fund-raiser, Elliott Broidy, 60, a national deputy finance chairman of the Republican National Committee, is the owner of a company with hundreds of millions of dollars in contracts to provide services to the United Arab Emirates. Qatar called Mr. Broidy’s charges a false “diversionary tactic to distract from the serious allegations against himself and his client, the United Arab Emirates.”Mr. Broidy and Qatar each threatened legal actions.The dispute illustrates how conflicts around the globe can echo through American news media, politics and courts, as rivals compete for the favor of Washington and the sympathies of the West.Qatar and the United Arab Emirates are both small, conservative, oil-rich monarchies and close American allies, but they have been locked for years in an escalating feud. The U.A.E. has accused Qatar of destabilizing the region by supporting political Islam, and, with Saudi Arabia, the Emiratis have led a monthslong campaign to blockade and isolate Qatar.Qatar disputes the charges and accuses the United Arab Emirates of bullying its neighbors.At least three sets of documents that appear to have been hacked from Mr. Broidy’s personal email have been passed in recent days to several journalists at multiple news organizations, including The New York Times and The Wall Street Journal, in a coordinated attempt to discredit Mr. Broidy. His allies note that the tactic being used against him resembles a long series of leaks, over more than a year, from the email accounts of the Emirati ambassador to the United States, Yousef al-Otaiba.Both are vocal critics of Qatar; Al Jazeera, the Qatari-owned news network, has often trumpeted news of the leaks; and allies of Mr. Otaiba have also sought to blame Qatar. But anonymous intermediaries have distributed the leaks, and no definitive evidence of responsibility has emerged.In a public letter released over the weekend to the Qatari ambassador to Washington, Sheikh Meshal bin Hamad al-Thani, Mr. Broidy accused “registered and unregistered agents” both inside and outside of the United States of carrying out “hostile intelligence operations against United States citizens.”“Your government’s actions against U.S. citizens will certainly jeopardize your nation’s relationship with the United States at a sensitive and costly political time,” Mr. Broidy added.In a statement, a spokesman for Qatar denied that it had engaged in or paid for any such crimes, including hacking, and threatened legal action “to protect its reputation.”In calling Mr. Broidy’s charges an attempted “distraction,” the Qataris were apparently alluding to a Times article that cited leaked documents. It raised questions about the possibility that Mr. Broidy might have sought to profit by selling his influence with the Trump administration to the United Arab Emirates.Mr. Broidy was introduced to the de facto ruler of the U.A.E. by the crown prince’s adviser, George Nader. Last fall, Mr. Broidy sent Mr. Nader a detailed report on extensive advocacy for Emirati goals during a one-on-one meeting in the Oval Office. And Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, has asked witnesses about the possible flow of illegal Emirati campaign contributions to Mr. Trump through Mr. Nader. A spokesman for Mr. Broidy said he had done nothing wrong, and a lawyer for Mr. Nader did not respond to messages.Both sides of the Persian Gulf dispute have traded allegations of hacking for months. Hackers briefly took control of the website of Qatar’s official news agency last summer, and posted a false account of a speech by the emir that appeared contrived to irk the Arab states and Washington. The emir was quoted as describing “tensions” with President Trump and speculating that he might not last in office, recommending friendship with Iran and praising the Palestinian militants of Hamas. Then the emir attested to his own “good” relations with Israel.Saudi Arabian and Emirati news networks continued repeating false news of the Qatari emir’s shocking speech long after the emir had publicly denied making it. The two allies began a boycott of Qatar days later. Qatari and American officials, speaking on the condition of anonymity, blame the U.A.E. for the hack.

Supported byBy Mike Isaac and Sheera FrenkelSAN FRANCISCO — Facebook, already facing scrutiny over how it handles the private information of its users, said on Friday that an attack on its computer network had exposed the personal information of nearly 50 million users.The breach, which was discovered this week, was the largest in the company’s 14-year history. The attackers exploited a feature in Facebook’s code to gain access to user accounts and potentially take control of them.The news could not have come at a worse time for Facebook. It has been buffeted over the last year by scandal, from revelations that a British analytics firm got access to the private information of up to 87 million users to worries that disinformation on Facebook has affected elections and even led to deaths in several countries.Senior executives have testified several times this year in congressional hearings where some lawmakers suggested that the government will need to step in if the social network is unable to get tighter control of its service. On Friday, regulators and lawmakers quickly seized on the breach to renew calls for more oversight.“This is another sobering indicator that Congress needs to step up and take action to protect the privacy and security of social media users,” Senator Mark Warner, a Democrat from Virginia and one of Facebook’s most vocal critics in Congress, said in a statement. “A full investigation should be swiftly conducted and made public so that we can understand more about what happened.”In the conference call on Friday, Guy Rosen, a vice president of product management at Facebook, declined to say whether the attack could have been coordinated by hackers supported by a nation-state.Three software flaws in Facebook’s systems allowed hackers to break into user accounts, including those of the top executives Mark Zuckerberg and Sheryl Sandberg, according to two people familiar with the investigation but not allowed to discuss it publicly. Once in, the attackers could have gained access to apps like Spotify, Instagram and hundreds of others that give users a way to log into their systems through Facebook.[Read more about what you can do to secure your Facebook account.]The software bugs were particularly awkward for a company that takes pride in its engineering: The first two were introduced by an online tool meant to improve the privacy of users. The third was introduced in July 2017 by a tool meant to easily upload birthday videos.Facebook said it had fixed the vulnerabilities and notified law enforcement officials. Company officials do not know the identity or the origin of the attackers, nor have they fully assessed the scope of the attack or if particular users were targeted. The investigation is still in its beginning stages.“We’re taking it really seriously,” Mr. Zuckerberg, the chief executive, said in a conference call with reporters. “I’m glad we found this, but it definitely is an issue that this happened in the first place.”Critics say the attack is the latest sign that Facebook has yet to come to terms with its problems.“Breaches don’t just violate our privacy. They create enormous risks for our economy and national security,” Rohit Chopra, a commissioner of the Federal Trade Commission, said in a statement. “The cost of inaction is growing, and we need answers.”Facebook has been roundly criticized for being slow to acknowledge a vast disinformation campaign run by Russian operatives on its platform and other social media outlets before the 2016 presidential election.Ms. Sandberg, Facebook’s chief operating officer, testified in a Senate hearing that month about what the company was trying to do to prevent the same thing from happening in midterm elections in November.In April, Mr. Zuckerberg testified about revelations that Cambridge Analytica, the British analytics firm that worked with the Trump presidential campaign, siphoned personal information of millions of Facebook users.Outside the United States, the impact of disinformation appearing on Facebook and the popular messaging service it owns, WhatsApp, has been severe. In countries such as Myanmar and India, false rumors spread on social media are believed to have led to widespread killing.Facebook said the attackers had exploited two bugs in the site’s “View As” feature, which allows users to check on what information other people can see about them. The feature was built to give users move control over their privacy.The company said those flaws were compounded by a bug in Facebook’s video-uploading program for birthday celebrations, a software feature that was introduced in July 2017. The flaw allowed the attackers to steal so-called access tokens — digital keys that allow access to an account.It is not clear when the attack happened, but it appears to have occurred after the video-uploading program was introduced, Facebook said. The company forced more than 90 million users to log out early Friday, a common safety measure taken when accounts have been compromised.The hackers also tried to harvest people’s private information, including name, sex and hometown, from Facebook’s systems, Mr. Rosen said. The company could not determine the extent of the attackers’ access to third-party accounts, he said.Facebook has been reshuffling its security teams since Alex Stamos, its chief security officer, left in August for a teaching position at Stanford University. Instead of acting as a stand-alone group, security team members now work more closely with product teams across the company. The move, the company said, is an effort to embed security across every step of Facebook product development.Part of that effort has been to gird Facebook against attacks on its network in preparation for the midterm elections. Facebook has spent months setting up new systems to pre-empt such attacks, and has already dealt with a number of incidents believed to be connected to elections in Mexico, Brazil and other countries.Still, the recently discovered breach was a reminder that it is exceptionally difficult to entirely secure a system that has more than 2.2 billion users all over the world and that connects with thousands of third-party services.“This has really shown us that because today’s digital environment is so complex, a compromise on a single platform — especially one as popular and widely reaching as Facebook — can have consequences that are much more far-reaching than what we can tell in early days of the investigation,” said April Doss, chairwoman of cybersecurity at the law firm Saul Ewing.As the news of Facebook’s data breach spread quickly across Twitter, Google searches and other online sites, there was one place where it remained difficult to find some detailed reports: Facebook.Users who posted breaking stories about the breach from The Guardian, The Associated Press and other outlets were prompted with a notice that their posts had been taken down. So many people were posting the stories, they looked like suspicious activity to the systems that Facebook uses to block abuse of its network.“We removed this post because it looked like spam to us,” the notice said.Follow Mike Isaac and Sheera Frenkel on Twitter: @MikeIsaac and @sheeraf.

Supported byBy Sheila KaplanWASHINGTON — Juul Labs has soared to the top of the United States e-cigarette market in just three years with its high-nicotine products that give off just a wisp of vapor.Now, facing public backlash and overseas restrictions, the company is working on a way to lower the nicotine in its pods — but still maintain a potent punch from the addictive chemical.Juul is developing a pod that is higher in vapor, which, experts say, can enhance the rate at which nicotine is absorbed in the body.People knowledgeable about the development of the higher-vapor pod say the company hopes it will appeal to cigarette smokers who are accustomed to a bigger cloud. And by reducing the nicotine level, even while magnifying the effect of the nicotine, Juul presumably would be able to meet stricter nicotine limits in many countries.It is unclear what levels of nicotine would be in the new design, and a variety of models are under development for different markets. The new pods are being designed for sale overseas, where Juul wants to replicate the success it has had in the United States.But in the European Union, where Juul plans to expand, and in the United Kingdom, where it is already on the market, the nicotine limit for e-cigarettes is 20 milligrams per milliliter of fluid — about a third of the amount in the most popular American Juul pod.A lower nicotine version is also on sale in the United States, but, at 23 milligrams of nicotine per milliliter of fluid, it still exceeds European Union requirements.Joshua Raffel, a Juul spokesman, declined to answer numerous questions about the new pod. In an interview, he would only say: “We are always looking to create products that help adult smokers switch from combustible cigarettes and limit appeal to youth.”Juul has not ruled out marketing the product in the United States, but would need the Food and Drug Administration’s approval to do so.[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]Some experts said the higher vapor could potentially make the pods even more addictive, increasing the risk particularly to young people, whose developing brains are more susceptible to the addictive qualities of nicotine.Micah Berman, associate professor of public health and law at The Ohio State University, said the amount of nicotine in a pod can be deceptive — what really matters is how much the body actually absorbs.“One of the things with cigarette design over the years is that they have figured out how to maximize the impact of nicotine in cigarettes,” Mr. Berman said.Of Juul’s plans, he said: “If it’s a change that reduces test levels of nicotine — the amount you would identify as being in the pod itself — but doesn’t actually change the biological level, then that’s certainly problematic. It’s more like cheating the test.”But Neal Benowitz, a professor of medicine at the University of California, San Francisco, said that increasing the vapor might indeed make Juul more useful to smokers who want to quit.“For smoking cessation, you need to have a satisfying delivery system with a good amount of nicotine with a small amount of aerosol,” Dr. Benowitz said. “But if you are vaping because you like the sensory aspects of it, then you want more aerosol. Right now, Juul is a good nicotine delivery device but the quality is not the same as a cigarette. I could see why some people might like a product that generates more aerosol and is more cigarette-like.”The new pods are expected to be slightly longer than the existing pods, but are designed to fit the current Juul device.The San Francisco-based Juul, which began selling its vaping device by the same name in 2015, has now captured more than 70 percent of the e-cigarette market share in the United States. Its success has been met with harsh public criticism over an epidemic of teenage vaping, and increasing government pressure to stop it.Earlier this month, facing a deadline from the Food and Drug Administration, Juul announced major changes in its sales and marketing practices aimed at reducing youth access to its devices and popular flavored pods.A sleek, electronic device that looks like an elongated flash drive, Juul works by heating a liquid flavor pod that contains nicotine and benzoic acid. When Juul users inhale, they get a very quick and powerful burst of nicotine.The F.D.A.’s biggest public health goal in this administration has been getting smokers to quit, and reducing the 480,000 annual deaths in the United States from cigarette-related disease. To do so, Dr. Scott Gottlieb, the commissioner, has encouraged the development of alternatives like e-cigarettes and, early in his tenure, extended the deadline for them to meet tough new agency rules.But this strategy backfired when Juul and other e-cigarettes became immensely popular with youths, and the agency recently restricted sales of certain flavors that appeal to youths.The other half of the F.D.A.’s plan is to reduce nicotine to nonaddictive levels in traditional cigarettes. The agency has started that process, but the tobacco companies have made clear they will fight it. There has been no agency announcement yet regarding limits on nicotine in e-cigarettes.Experts in e-cigarette engineering said there were a number of ways Juul could amp up the vapor, or aerosol, in its products. Edward Hensel, associate dean of engineering at the Rochester Institute of Technology, said one way is by adjusting the heating coil, inside the flavor pod.“They can use the same battery and the same electronics but by changing the coil you can have a different amount of power, and so aerosolize more product,” Dr. Hensel said.Some public health advocates noted another consequence of a more powerful pod.“More vapor is more secondhand vapor,” said Chris Bostic, a deputy director at Action on Smoking &amp; Health, a public health group working to eliminate tobacco use. “A bigger cloud of vapor sounds to me like a bigger problem for bystanders.”

Supported byBy Melissa EddyBERLIN — Hackers using highly sophisticated software penetrated the German government’s main data network, a system that was supposed to be particularly secure and is used by the chancellor’s office, ministries and the Parliament, government officials have said.German news outlets, citing security sources, have widely blamed a Russian hacking group backed by the Russian government — either one called Snake, or another known as APT28, or Fancy Bear. But Berlin has not publicly said who was behind the attack.The attack was narrowly targeted, apparently seeking specific information, said Patrick Sensburg, a lawmaker with the governing Conservative Party. Officials would not say how successful the intrusion was, or what data the hackers may have taken.The parliamentary committee responsible for monitoring Germany’s intelligence services called a special session on Thursday, demanding information about the hacking, which was first reported on Wednesday by the German news agency D.P.A.“We have suffered a veritable cyberattack on parts of the government network,” Armin Schuster, a member of Chancellor Angela Merkel’s conservative party, told reporters on Thursday.He declined to give any further information, saying that the attack was continuing, as was an investigation into who might be behind it. “A public discussion would serve as a warning to the attackers that we simply do not want to give them,” Mr. Schuster said.Germany’s Interior Ministry confirmed the attack on Wednesday, describing it as “isolated” and having been “brought under control.” But the ministry would not say whether Russian hackers were responsible, and declined to give any more details.The attack comes two years after German security officials determined that Fancy Bear hackers were able to breach the German Parliament’s data network, leading to calls for increased security on the country’s most sensitive systems.The same group has been accused of breaching the computer servers of the Democratic National Committee in the United States, leading to the release of embarrassing emails during the 2016 campaign, and of targeting Olympic athletes and circulating their emails.German security officials warned in the months leading up to a national election in September that the country remained vulnerable to “cyberespionage,” but the country appeared to have escaped any attacks on the level of those seen during the presidential campaigns in the United States and France.Süddeutsche Zeitung, a left-leaning German daily, reported that the country’s Foreign Ministry had been among the targets of the most recent attack, citing anonymous sources within the ministry. That information, while unconfirmed, was supported by a report by Palo Alto Networks, a cyber security firm, pointing to what it called “a new set of attacks” by Russian hackers that appeared to be aimed at the diplomatic community in the West.Investigators with Palo Alto Networks said that groups associated with Fancy Bear had used “malicious emails targeting foreign affairs agencies and ministries in North America and Europe, including a European embassy in Moscow.” German media reported that the country’s Defense Ministry had also been targeted.Mr. Sensburg refused to place blame on the Russians, insisting that the authorities would need time to determine who was behind the attack.“Whether this really was the work of this hacking collective must be carefully investigated,” he told ZDF, a public broadcaster, before the parliamentary committee convened on Thursday. “As this involved the government network, which is used for communication and email traffic and a lot of daily exchanges, but does not primarily involve secret or top-secret information, it must also be carefully examined whether data has been leaked.”Unlike the 2015 hacking attack on the German Parliament, which succeeded in breaching the system and making off with 16 gigabytes of sensitive information, Mr. Sensburg said the most recent attack appeared to be more refined, clearly targeting specific information.Despite attempts to play down the communication exchanged on the government network, known as the IVBB, it would be of interest for anyone seeking to spy on German intelligence. The network allows the chancellery, ministries, security services and federal auditing office to exchange information with one another. Offices in Bonn, the former West German capital, and in Berlin, are included on the specially secured network.Efforts to bolster Germany’s data security have been a point of debate for months. The country’s military is allowed to legally initiate a cyber-offensive to combat a hacking attack on its resources, but there is no such law that would permit similar defense of the country’s civilian infrastructure.

Supported byTECH TIPIf a scammer has swiped your password and is using your account to spew spam, take action and add measures to help stop it from happening again.By J. D. BiersdorferQ. Could you please review best practices if one’s email is hacked? Is changing the password for that email sufficient? Is it necessary to change the email address (use a whole new email) for each site, like Amazon, that uses the hacked email as the user login?A. If you still have access to the compromised account, changing the password is one of many steps you should take to protect yourself. If you are having trouble regaining control of the account, visit your mail provider’s site for instructions on recovering your account. Apple, Google, Microsoft and Yahoo all have guides on their sites, as should other email and internet service providers. Tell your friends that your account was hacked and to ignore any odd messages that appear to have come from you.Your account may have been hacked through malicious software, so scan your computer for malware and viruses with a security program. If you do not have security software installed, you can use Microsoft’s built-in Windows Defender or Microsoft Security Essentials. Avast and AVG are among the many companies that make free basic antivirus software for Windows and Mac. Malwarebytes has free and trial versions of its malware-scanning program for Windows and Mac that can work alongside antivirus software. You should also update your computer and devices with the latest security updates.Next, check your mail settings to make sure nothing has been changed — like copies of your messages set to forward to an unfamiliar addresses, unfamiliar entries in your address book, or new links or information added to your email signature file. Take this opportunity to change and update your security questions and answers that your provider uses to confirm your identity if you use the Forgot Password option.While you are in your mail settings, set up two-factor authentication or two-step verification if you have not already and the feature is available from your mail provider. You will need to provide a code or acknowledge a login attempt on another device after you enter your password, but the extra step helps keep your account more secure.If you have rescued your account and bolstered its defenses, you should be able to keep using the address as a login for other sites, but go in and change the password you used with it, along with all the other passwords for other sites where you used the address as your login. You should also update any site where you repeatedly used the same password as the one for the hacked mail account.The Federal Trade Commission has an online guide to dealing with a hacked mail account. And to avoid being hacked again, follow basic precautions like avoiding public wireless networks without using a virtual private network.Personal Tech invites questions about computer-based technology to techtip@nytimes.com. This column will answer questions of general interest, but letters cannot be answered individually.J.D. Biersdorfer has been answering technology questions — in print, on the web, in audio and in video — since 1998. She also writes the Sunday Book Review’s “Applied Reading” column on ebooks and literary apps, among other things.  @jdbiersdorfer 

Supported byBy Nicole Perlroth and Mike IsaacSAN FRANCISCO — “Hello Joe,” read the November 2016 email from someone identifying himself as “John Doughs.” “I have found a major vulnerability in Uber.”The email appeared to be no different from other messages that Joe Sullivan, Uber’s chief security officer, and his team routinely received through the company’s “bug bounty” program, which pays hackers for reporting holes in the ride-hailing service’s systems, according to current and former Uber security employees.Yet the note and Uber’s eventual $100,000 payment to the hacker, which was initially celebrated internally as a rare win in corporate security, have since turned into a public relations debacle for the company. In November, when Uber disclosed the 2016 incident and how the information of 57 million driver and rider accounts had been at risk, the company’s chief executive since August, Dara Khosrowshahi, called it a “failure” that it had not notified people earlier. Mr. Sullivan and a security lawyer, Craig Clark, were fired.In the weeks since, Uber’s handling of the hacking has come under major scrutiny. Not only did Uber pay an outsize amount to the hacker, but it also did not disclose that it had briefly lost control of so much consumer and driver data until a year later. The behavior raised questions of a cover-up and a lack of transparency, as well as whether the payment really was just a ransom paid by a security operation that had acted on its own for too long.The hacking is now the subject of at least four lawsuits, with attorneys general in five states investigating whether Uber broke laws on data-breach notifications. In addition, the United States attorney for Northern California has begun a criminal investigation into the matter.Most of all, the hacking and Uber’s response have fueled a debate about whether companies that have crusaded to lock up their systems can scrupulously work with hackers without putting themselves on the wrong side of the law.Uber is illustrative of a breed of company that aimed to bulletproof its security. While many corporations were for years blissfully unaware of hackers penetrating their systems, Uber and others recruited former law enforcement and intelligence analysts and installed layers of technical defenses and password security. They joined other companies in embracing the same hackers they once treated as criminals, shelling out bug bounties as high as $200,000 to report flaws.Yet since the fallout from Uber’s disclosure, Silicon Valley companies have taken a harder look at their bounty programs. At least three have put their programs under review, according to two consultants who have confidential relationships with those companies, which they declined to name. Others said criminal prosecutions for not reporting John Doughs would deter ethical hackers who would otherwise come forward, causing even more security breaches.“Anything that causes organizations to take a step backwards and not welcome contributions from the security community will have a negative impact on all of us,” said Alex Rice, a co-founder of HackerOne, a security company whose business is to work with customers, including Uber, to manage interactions with and payments to hackers.The situation is complicated by Uber’s track record for pushing boundaries, which put it under scrutiny last year and helped spur the resignation of Travis Kalanick, its longtime chief executive, in June. Mr. Khosrowshahi has since vowed to change the way the company conducts itself.This account of Uber’s hacking and the company’s response was based on more than a dozen interviews with people who dealt with the incident, many of whom declined to be identified because of the confidentiality of their exchanges. Many are current or former members of Uber’s security team, who defended their actions as a prime example of how executives should respond to security problems. The New York Times also obtained more than two dozen internal Uber emails and documents related to the incident.In a statement, Mr. Sullivan disputed the notion that the 2016 episode was a breach and said Uber had treated it as an authorized vulnerability disclosure.“I was surprised and disappointed when those who wanted to portray Uber in a negative light quickly suggested this was a cover-up,” he said, adding that he was proud its engineers had been able to fix the issue before it could be abused. He declined to discuss disclosure because of the active state investigations.Matt Kallman, an Uber spokesman, said, “We stand by our decision to very publicly disclose the 2016 data breach — not because it was easy, but because it was the right thing to do.”Through a spokesman, Mr. Kalanick declined to comment.Uber started its bounty program in March 2016, challenging hackers to find bugs that could specifically lead to the exposure of sensitive user data. The higher risk the bug was, the more Uber would pay. In Uber’s calculus, the payouts were better than learning about a vulnerability only after attackers had abused it.By the time Mr. Sullivan got John Doughs email, Uber had paid rewards to hundreds of hackers. Mr. Sullivan forwarded the John Doughs note to his team for vetting and, if all checked out, patching and payment.Uber’s security team used nicknames for hackers, particularly the colorful, anonymous ones who engaged with the company. John Doughs was called “Preacher” for his admonitions that Uber should be better at security.“It’s very disappointing to be finding this vulnerability in such way,” the hacker wrote in an email to Rob Fletcher, Uber’s product security engineering manager. “Especially coming from a company like Uber.”Other emails obtained by The Times show Mr. Fletcher treated the incident as a bounty and encouraged Preacher to provide proof of the vulnerability, including sending a few lines of data from the database he had breached.According to the emails obtained by The Times, Uber soon discovered that some of its employees had left certain computer code known as keys on a programming site called Github. Those keys had allowed Preacher to gain access to Uber’s Amazon web servers, where it stored source code as well as 57 million customer and driver accounts, including driver’s license numbers for some 600,000 Uber drivers. It was a major oversight. To fix it, Uber had to inform everyone at the company that it was temporarily shutting down access to Github.Emails between the hacker and Mr. Fletcher continued. In some, Mr. Fletcher thanked the hacker for helping the company fix the oversight. In two emails, Preacher’s motivations appeared to veer closer toward blackmail. In one, he demanded “high compensation” for his findings. After Mr. Fletcher said the company’s maximum bounty was $10,000, Preacher said he and his team would only accept “six digits.”Mr. Fletcher said he would need to seek authorization for a $100,000 payment, and would need Preacher’s reassurances that he would delete the data he had downloaded. Mr. Fletcher also pushed the hacker to take payment through HackerOne, which requires bounty recipients to disclose their real identities for tax requirements.Mr. Fletcher drew further details about the hacker out through emails, including tidbits about his identity, his internet hosting provider, the location of his computer and proof that he deleted his copy of Uber’s downloaded data by looking at a virtual copy of his system provided by his host.According to the emails, Uber at one point extended Preacher an all-expenses paid trip to San Francisco, where the company is based. Uber asked the hacker to discuss his security techniques and offered to introduce him to companies that might be interested in his skills. Preacher declined.By then, Uber’s executives had decided what to do. Mr. Kalanick signed off on the $100,000 payment, so long as the hacker signed an agreement to destroy any data exposed in his discovery, according to the emails.Preacher’s trail of digital bread crumbs eventually led to a 20-year-old whose first name was Brandon and who was living in a Florida trailer park with his family, according to the emails. In one email, Uber offered to send someone to meet Brandon at a local coffee shop. Brandon declined to leave his home and suggested that the employee meet him there. It was there that Brandon signed agreements assuring Uber that he had deleted the data he had downloaded.The Times was unable to learn Brandon’s full name. An email to the John Doughs account bounced back.Uber’s security team was soon celebrating its response to what could have been a major security breach. Mr. Sullivan and his colleagues were praised in year-end performance reviews, including by Mr. Kalanick, according to current and former employees.What is now at issue is whether Uber executives broke the law with the $100,000 payment and should have quickly notified customers or officials of the discovery. The issue is not legally clear cut.Laws concerning bug bounties are ambiguous. The Justice Department weighed into bug disclosure programs for the first time in July and largely left it to organizations to decide what access they will authorize for hackers and what they can do with the data. In Uber’s case, its bounty guidelines authorized and encouraged hackers to look for vulnerabilities that exposed its most sensitive user data.Breach disclosure laws also differ state to state. The state laws most relevant to Uber’s case require disclosure if names are exposed in combination with driver’s license numbers in a “breach of security.”Brandon received two payments of $50,000 each from Uber on Dec. 8, 2016, according to the emails. Uber continued trading emails with Brandon during 2017, until the conversation dwindled.Last fall, when two outside law firms for Uber learned about the payment to the hacker, they advised the company that the incident should have been disclosed, according to an Uber employee familiar with the matter. Mr. Sullivan and Mr. Clark, the lawyer who directly oversaw the bounty payment, were fired for not seeking outside counsel on the issue of whether to disclose, this person said.That prompted a call to Mr. Sullivan while he was preparing Thanksgiving dinner, according to two people familiar with the matter. He was fired, effective immediately.Follow Nicole Perlroth and Mike Isaac on Twitter: @nicoleperlroth and @MikeIsaac.

Supported byBy Christina CaronJoy Reid, the MSNBC host who accused hackers of inserting homophobic posts into her now-defunct blog, said on Saturday that while she continued to deny having written the offensive language, security experts could not conclusively say her blog was breached.“I genuinely do not believe I wrote those hateful things, because they are completely alien to me,” she said on her morning show, “AM Joy.” “But I can definitely understand, based on things I have tweeted and have written in the past, why some people don’t believe me.”She hired a cybersecurity expert to see if her former blog had been manipulated, she said, but “the reality is, they have not been able to prove it.”The posts containing the offensive language,  which Mediaite wrote about on Monday, said that “most straight people cringe at the sight of two men kissing” and that “a lot of heterosexuals, especially men, find the idea of homosexual sex to be … well … gross.”They also allegedly showed Ms. Reid arguing against legalized gay marriage and criticizing commentators who supported it, including Rachel Maddow, who is now one of Ms. Reid’s colleagues at MSNBC.On Saturday morning, Ms. Reid devoted about 30 minutes of her show to the controversy, speaking with a supportive panel of experts who fight for L.G.B.T. rights.“I have not been exempt from being dumb or cruel or hurtful to the very people I want to advocate for,” said Ms. Reid, 49. “I own that. I did it. And for that I am truly, truly sorry.”Most of Ms. Reid’s guests commended her for recognizing that her words had been hurtful, and redirected the conversation to Washington and the Trump administration’s policies.“The reality is that while we’re having conversations about what may or may not have been said 10 years ago, we should be having conversations about what was tweeted 10 seconds ago,” said Danielle Moodie-Mills, a public relations executive who hosts “Woke AF” on SiriusXM, the satellite radio provider.“There are bans that are still up at the Supreme Court right now to keep Muslims out of America,” she added, as well as efforts to “kick patriotic trans people out of the military. And that’s coming from the Oval Office right now.”Ms. Reid’s posts emerged on social media this month via the Twitter user @Jamie_Maz. In December, the same account shared posts in which Ms. Reid  taunted Charlie Crist, the Democratic former Florida governor, as a closeted gay man whose heterosexual marriage was a political front. Late last year, she apologized and Mr. Crist responded, “Long forgotten, but thank you, Joy. I appreciate you.”It’s not the first time Ms. Reid’s words have stoked controversy.On Saturday she apologized for some of her past tweets, including ones in which she mocked the conservative commentator Ann Coulter by “using transgender stereotypes.” Ms. Reid grew up in a household that had conservative values on L.G.B.T. issues, she said, but “those tweets were wrong and horrible.”“I look back today at some of the ways I’ve talked casually about people and gender identity and sexual orientation and I wonder who that even was,” she added. “But the reality is that like a lot of people in this country, that person was me.”She did not take ownership of the most recently surfaced blog posts, however. In a statement this week to Mediaite, Ms. Reid said that her website had been breached and that the posts were fabricated by hackers intending to defame her.She said in the statement that “an unknown, external party accessed and manipulated material from my now-defunct blog,” and that she had retained an online security expert to investigate. “I can state unequivocally,” she wrote, that the resurfaced posts do “not represent the original entries.”Ms. Reid’s former blog posts were discovered via the Wayback Machine, an archive of more than two decades of web history. On Tuesday, the Internet Archive, which runs the Wayback Machine, responded to Ms. Reid’s claim that her posts had been hacked, saying in a statement that it had found no evidence of hacking in the archived versions of her site.Ms. Reid’s security consultant, Jonathan Nichols, responded that “at no time has Ms. Reid claimed that the Wayback Machine was hacked” with an intention to alter her blog. Instead, he said Ms. Reid’s team detected a “breach” of her blog but that it was unrelated to the “fraudulent” posts.Ms. Reid ran her blog, “The Reid Report,” in the mid-2000s while writing about politics for The Miami Herald, long before she started working at MSNBC, where she once had a daily show with the same name.She has emerged as a rising star at MSNBC, galvanizing liberal viewers with her forceful interviews with supporters of President Trump and tough commentary on politics and race. “AM Joy,” her morning show, has risen in the ratings since its debut in 2016, and Ms. Reid was a frequent substitute for the network’s marquee prime time hosts, including Ms. Maddow.Ms. Reid is also a columnist for The Daily Beast, whose executive editor said it “hit pause” on her columns while it investigated her claims that she had been hacked, CNN reported.The Daily Beast said it found errors in Mr. Nichols’s methodology and concluded that “the indicators of hacked posts don’t bear out.”On Saturday, Ms. Reid noted that she “should have known better” than to have ever written or tweeted words that were homophobic or transphobic, “even a decade ago, when the country was in a very different place.”“But I cannot take any of that back,” she added. “I can only say that the person I am now is not the person I was then.”Michael M. Grynbaum contributed reporting.

Supported byOp-Ed ContributorsBy Henry J. Farrell and Rick PerlsteinImagine it is the spring of 2019. A bottom-feeding website, perhaps tied to Russia, “surfaces” video of a sex scene starring an 18-year-old Kirsten Gillibrand. It is soon debunked as a fake, the product of a user-friendly video application that employs generative adversarial network technology to convincingly swap out one face for another.It is the summer of 2019, and the story, predictably, has stuck around — part talk-show joke, part right-wing talking point. “It’s news,” political journalists say in their own defense. “People are talking about it. How can we not?”Then it is fall. The junior senator from New York State announces her campaign for the presidency. At a diner in New Hampshire, one “low information” voter asks another: “Kirsten What’s-her-name? She’s running for president? Didn’t she have something to do with pornography?”Welcome to the shape of things to come. In 2016 Gareth Edwards, the director of the Star Wars film “Rogue One,” was able to create a scene featuring a young Princess Leia by manipulating images of Carrie Fisher as she looked in 1977. Mr. Edwards had the best hardware and software a $200 million Hollywood budget could buy. Less than two years later, images of similar quality can be created with software available for free download on Reddit. That was how a faked video supposedly of the actress Emma Watson in a shower with another woman ended up on the website Celeb Jihad.Programs like these have many legitimate applications. They can help computer-security experts probe for weaknesses in their defenses and help self-driving cars learn how to navigate unusual weather conditions. But as the novelist William Gibson once said, “The street finds its own uses for things.” So do rogue political actors. The implications for democracy are eye-opening.The conservative political activist James O’Keefe has created a cottage industry manipulating political perceptions by editing footage in misleading ways. In 2018, low-tech editing like Mr. O’Keefe’s is already an anachronism: Imagine what even less scrupulous activists could do with the power to create “video” framing real people for things they’ve never actually done. One harrowing potential eventuality: Fake video and audio may become so convincing that it can’t be distinguished from real recordings, rendering audio and video evidence inadmissible in court.A program called Face2Face, developed at Stanford, films one person speaking, then manipulates that person’s image to resemble someone else’s. Throw in voice manipulation technology, and you can literally make anyone say anything — or at least seem to.The technology isn’t quite there; Princess Leia was a little wooden, if you looked carefully. But it’s closer than you might think. And even when fake video isn’t perfect, it can convince people who want to be convinced, especially when it reinforces offensive gender or racial stereotypes.Another harrowing potential is the ability to trick the algorithms behind self-driving cars to not recognize traffic signs. Computer scientists have shown that nearly invisible changes to a stop sign can fool algorithms into thinking it says yield instead. Imagine if one of these cars contained a dissident challenging a dictator.In 2007, Barack Obama’s political opponents insisted that footage existed of Michelle Obama ranting against “whitey.” In the future, they may not have to worry about whether it actually existed. If someone called their bluff, they may simply be able to invent it, using data from stock photos and pre-existing footage.The next step would be one we are already familiar with: the exploitation of the algorithms used by social media sites like Twitter and Facebook to spread stories virally to those most inclined to show interest in them, even if those stories are fake.It might be impossible to stop the advance of this kind of technology. But the relevant algorithms here aren’t only the ones that run on computer hardware. They are also the ones that undergird our too easily hacked media system, where garbage acquires the perfumed scent of legitimacy with all too much ease. Editors, journalists and news producers can play a role here — for good or for bad.Outlets like Fox News spread stories about the murder of Democratic staff members and F.B.I. conspiracies to frame the president. Traditional news organizations, fearing that they might be left behind in the new attention economy, struggle to maximize “engagement with content.”This gives them a built-in incentive to spread informational viruses that enfeeble the very democratic institutions that allow a free media to thrive. Cable news shows consider it their professional duty to provide “balance” by giving partisan talking heads free rein to spout nonsense — or amplify the nonsense of our current president.It already feels as though we are living in an alternative science-fiction universe where no one agrees on what it true. Just think how much worse it will be when fake news becomes fake video. Democracy assumes that its citizens share the same reality. We’re about to find out whether democracy can be preserved when this assumption no longer holds.Henry J. Farrell is a professor of political science and international affairs at the George Washington University. Rick Perlstein is the author, most recently, of “The Invisible Bridge: The Fall of Nixon and the Rise of Reagan.”Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.

Supported byBy Jeffery C. MaysAdrián Lamo, a hacker best known for breaking into the computer networks of The New York Times and other major corporations, and for reporting the Army whistle-blower Chelsea Manning to the authorities, was found dead on Wednesday in Wichita, Kan. He was 37.Mr. Lamo’s body was discovered in an apartment in the city, The Wichita Eagle reported. His father announced the death in a post on Facebook on Friday. Kate Flavin, a spokeswoman for Sedgwick County, Kan., said on Saturday that the cause of death was unknown.Mr. Lamo was 22 when federal prosecutors accused him of breaking into The Times’s computer network, creating fake usernames and running up over $300,000 in data research fees. Mr. Lamo also gained access to the computer networks of Yahoo, Microsoft and Cingular Wireless, prosecutors said.“It’s like someone kicking in your front door while you’re on vacation and running up a $300,000 bill on your phone, and then telling you when you arrive home that he had performed a useful service by demonstrating that your deadbolt wasn’t secure enough,” James B. Comey, then the United States attorney in Manhattan, said in 2003, referring to Mr. Lamo’s activities.Mr. Lamo pleaded guilty to one count of computer damage, telling a federal judge that he was “genuinely remorseful” for his actions. He was sentenced to house arrest and probation.Mr. Lamo was never a “malicious hacker,” his father, Mario Lamo, said in a message, adding, “Everything that he did was out of curiosity.” The younger Mr. Lamo told Wired magazine in 2010 that he had Asperger’s syndrome.In 2010, Ms. Manning, an Army private, contacted Mr. Lamo via instant message. They chatted for a week about her personal problems in the military. Ms. Manning admitted that she had leaked classified video of a helicopter attack in Baghdad that left 12 people dead, including two Reuters employees, to WikiLeaks.org, which published the video online under the title “Collateral Murder.”Mr. Lamo said Ms. Manning had also admitted leaking to WikiLeaks 260,000 classified diplomatic cables and video of a 2009 Afghanistan airstrike that left 96 people dead.“He was just grabbing information from where he could get it and trying to leak it,” Mr. Lamo told The Times in 2010 about Ms. Manning, a transgender woman who was then known as Bradley Manning.Mr. Lamo called the F.B.I. and relayed Ms. Manning’s admissions. She was arrested and eventually sentenced to 35 years in prison for leaking over 700,000 government records, the longest punishment ever imposed for a leak conviction. President Barack Obama commuted Ms. Manning’s sentence in January 2017, and she recently filed to run for the United States Senate in Maryland.Mr. Lamo said he was worried that the leaks provided by Ms. Manning would endanger people’s lives.“I thought to myself, ‘What if somebody dies because this information is leaked?’” he said in 2010.WikiLeaks and others condemned Mr. Lamo for turning Ms. Manning in to the federal authorities.Julian Assange, the founder of WikiLeaks, called Mr. Lamo a “serial F.B.I. snitch” on Twitter. In comments on the Facebook post announcing Mr. Lamo’s death, some called him a “real hero” and “true patriot.”Mario Lamo said his son went through a difficult period after reporting Ms. Manning to the authorities.“He was vilified by many people by his position about the Manning affair,” he said. “I was with him when this happened and understood that he lived by some principles and he stood for them.”Adrián Alfonso Lamo Atwood was born in Malden, Mass., on Feb. 20, 1981. He attended high school in San Francisco before being expelled after altercations with his computer teacher.Mario Lamo said his son went on to obtain his high school equivalency diploma and later became friends with the computer teacher.Mr. Lamo first became interested in computers after receiving a hand-me-down Commodore 64. He became familiar with software after gaining access to the coding used to create the video games that he played.After receiving his first laptop computer in high school, Mr. Lamo began using a simple web browser to find holes in security. Mr. Lamo would report the security holes he uncovered to the affected companies. Until his death, Mario Lamo said, his son worked as a computer security consultant.In addition to his father, Mr. Lamo is survived by his mother, Mary Atwood, and two siblings, Andrea Lamo Atwood and Julián Lamo Atwood.Follow Jeffery C. Mays on Twitter: @jeffcmays. OpinionZeynep Tufekci

Supported byBy Daniel Victor and Sheera FrenkelUnited States officials are charging an Iranian hacker in the theft of 1.5 terabytes of data from HBO in May, an attack that tormented network executives and included the release of several unaired programs and scripts.Behzad Mesri, who went by the pseudonym “Skote Vahshat,” was charged with computer fraud, wire fraud, extortion and identity theft, according to an indictment unsealed Tuesday in United States District Court in Manhattan. But he remains in Iran, and officials acknowledged that it would be difficult to detain him.“He will forever be looking over his shoulder, and if he isn’t, he should be,” Joon H. Kim, acting United States attorney for the Southern District of New York, said at a news conference.He was accused of trying to extort $6 million worth of Bitcoin from HBO in July, the indictment said.From May to August, the data theft proved a nightmare for HBO. The hacker gradually released stolen materials on the internet, including unaired episodes of “Ballers,” “Barry,” “Room 104,” “Curb Your Enthusiasm” and “The Deuce.” The hacker also released the script of an episode of “Game of Thrones” that had not yet been broadcast.The data cache also included financial documents, cast and crew contact lists, emails belonging to at least one HBO employee and credentials for social media accounts, according to the indictment.Though Mr. Kim said it was “not likely” the authorities would be able to arrest Mr. Mesri, being wanted by the F.B.I. will make it difficult for Mr. Mesri to travel internationally, he said.“The memory of American law enforcement is very long,” he said.The indictment stops short of formally accusing Mr. Mesri, 29, of working on behalf of the Iranian government, though it notes that he previously “had worked on behalf of the Iranian military to conduct computer network attacks that targeted military systems, nuclear software systems, and Israeli infrastructure.”Collin Anderson, an independent cybersecurity researcher who focuses on Iran, said that Mr. Mesri appeared to have ties to individuals who had carried out cyberespionage campaigns on behalf of the Iranian government, though his decision to attack HBO may have been a singular act he carried out by himself.“Iran’s offensive cyberoperations are complex because the membership in hacking groups and the lines between groups are messy and shift over time,” Mr. Anderson said.He said the indictment was most likely just the tip of the iceberg when it came to Iran’s offensive online activities.“This is a limited window into the vast activities Iran is engaged in, and it’s a limited window into what the U.S. government knows about these actors,” Mr. Anderson said. “It’s possible that the U.S. government could indict more Iranian hackers, depending on how they want to place pressure on Iran in the coming months.”In a statement, HBO said: “HBO has confirmed in the past that we were working with law enforcement from the early stages of the cyber incident. As far as the criminal case is concerned, we prefer to leave any comments to the US Attorney’s Office.”Mr. Mesri was not accused of participating in two other HBO security breaches over the summer. The network’s Twitter account was hacked in August, and two episodes of “Game of Thrones” were leaked online before they were broadcast, but neither was linked to the larger data theft.“Game of Thrones” didn’t appear to suffer from the leaks. It set a ratings record with 12.1 million viewers for its finale, or 16.5 million when including numbers from its streaming services.Kitty Bennett contributed research.

Supported byBy Sheera FrenkelSAN FRANCISCO — Between breaking into the email accounts of United States government officials, political dissidents and international human rights organizations, Iranian hackers liked to joke about their slow internet service, poor pay and lack of skilled colleagues.In conversations obtained by security researchers, the hackers groused like any other start-up employees, often frustrated by their lack of progress and inability to carry out more grandiose schemes.But the work being discussed had global ramifications, and painted a picture of how Iranian hackers have matured over the last decade from defacing websites with crude photos and slogans. Now, they appear to be an organized work force, starting systematic cyberespionage campaigns aimed at promoting Iran’s interests around the world and on curbing dissent within the Islamic Republic.In a report published on Thursday by the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Collin Anderson, an independent cybersecurity researcher, and Karim Sadjadpour, a Carnegie senior fellow, followed nearly a decade of the day-to-day activities of Iranian hackers.Their report on Iran’s improving capabilities arrives as anti-government protests in the country enter their second week, prompting the regime to shut down access to the internet under the claim that it is being used to spread “violence and fear” among protesters.Iran has long spied on the online activities of dissidents, but it has recently turned to cyberespionage campaigns aimed at the United States, according to recent reports by security firms. Those campaigns have left a trail of digital crumbs, allowing researchers to paint a vivid picture of whom Iranian hackers target — and when.“Through their carelessness, we were able to get a real picture of who these individuals are and what their goals are,” said Mr. Anderson, who has been researching Iranian hackers for more than five years.The hackers appeared to be testing malicious software on themselves or accidentally clicked on malware they were developing. Either way, they exposed activity on their own computers, inadvertently giving researchers a glimpse into their lives through chat logs, emails and the targeting of their victims.One six-month chat log between two Iranian hackers gave particular insight into how they ran their day-to-day operation. By tracing where and how web domains were registered, as well as other data found online, Mr. Anderson concluded that the aliases “mb_1986” and “ArYaIeIrAN” represented two Iranian men whose real names were Mojtaba Borhani and Behrouz Keshvari.Neither replied to a request for comment sent to email addresses referred to in their chat logs.Both had roots in the Iranian defacement community, which would attack and take over websites and Twitter accounts, replacing them with pro-Iranian slogans and images.Over time, the two become more sophisticated, developing malware as they moved between Iranian hacking groups. Recently, the men have been tied to a group known as “Charming Kitten” by security companies. The group is believed to be responsible for a range of attacks, including targeting aviation companies in the United States.The chat logs showed two men frustrated with the pace of their work.“We need someone for Mac in Tehran,” Mr. Keshvari wrote on June 15, 2014, bringing up a topic the two men had discussed nearly a month earlier. The best hackers, he complained, were making “good money” elsewhere, and were not tempted by the idea of moving to Tehran to work in a cramped office for roughly $780 a month. There should be some other benefit, Mr. Keshvari joked, at one point suggesting they offer to send prospective hires on vacation to Turkey and Thailand.Mr. Keshvari appeared focused on bringing in prospective new hires, but he was often stymied by Mr. Borhani. On May 30, 2014, he complained that Mr. Borhani had scared off prospective new hires.“Listen, if during the interview you ask them about working with SCADA, I will kill you,” Mr. Keshvari wrote, referring to the operating system used to control industrial facilities, such as power plants or oil and gas refineries.Mr. Keshvari responded that he “does not do the interview in this way.” And after several profanities were exchanged, the two agreed to meet with a new recruit.“We need them … send them here,” Mr. Borhani wrote. He repeatedly pressed for programmers with expertise in Mac operating systems.Their focus on hiring people with an expertise in Apple products, specifically the Mac operating system, was unsurprising, Mr. Anderson said, given that many of Iran’s dissidents and human rights workers had transitioned to Apple products in the hopes that they would prove more secure than Microsoft’s Windows software.Last year, the first reports surfaced that Iranian hackers had developed malware targeting Macs. The malware stole victim’s passwords, and it has been used to target Iranian dissidents as well as the defense contractors in the United States, according to Mr. Anderson’s report.“Imagine them like start-ups who are contracted to the government,” Mr. Anderson said. “They are chasing demographics that the government has an interest in targeting.”The two men often discussed names and shared phone numbers of people they were working with, and one individual appeared to warrant deference. A figure named only as “Hajji,” a title widely used in the Muslim world to denote someone who carries out the hajj, a sacred pilgrimage to Mecca, appeared to frequently visit the men and make final decisions on whom they could hire to help with various projects.“It seems likely that Hajji is an Iranian government handler,” Mr. Anderson said. Iran’s government, he added, is careful to not directly tie itself to hackers involved in offensive operations. Iran’s government also probably operates a separate cyberwarfare department, though the people it employs there appear more skilled and better at covering their tracks, he said.“The vast majority of their most recent operations focuses on cyberespionage,” Mr. Anderson said, a statement echoed by John Hultquist, director of intelligence analysis at the FireEye cybersecurity firm, which recently published its own report about one of Iran’s more active hacking groups.In the year since President Trump took office, Iran has focused its efforts on infiltrating the computers of anyone associated with the president, Mr. Anderson said.“They are clearly trying to gain any insight they can as to what this administration is going to do vis-à-vis Iran,” he said. “They are very persistent, but we don’t know their level of success.”There are few who know Iranian hackers persistence better than Thamar E. Gindin, an Iran specialist from Shalem College of Liberal Arts in Israel.In May 2015, Ms. Gindin was the “patient zero” in an attack by Iranian hackers, who infiltrated her computer through a malicious email and used it to try to gain access to other academics studying Iran, according to a report published by the Israeli cybersecurity firm ClearSky.With the help of ClearSky, the hackers were booted from her system. But in the two years since, they have tried almost monthly to get back in through a number of ploys playing to her personal interests — including posing as reporters from the BBC who hoped to interview her, and sharing a file on “unique chocolates” after she wrote a post on Facebook promoting her cousin’s chocolate business.Among the groups targeting her are Charming Kitten, the group Mr. Borhani and Mr. Keshvari had been linked to.“I feel like we are playing a game. I have to admit, I kind of like them,” Ms. Gindin said. “They are persistent and stubborn, but they aren’t very smart all the time. It’s really like a game.“Follow Sheera Frenkel on Twitter: @sheeraf.OpinionAmir Ahmadi Arian

Supported byBy Liam StackBack in December, after a series of homophobic posts on her defunct, decade-old blog resurfaced on social media, the MSNBC host Joy Reid apologized for them. But this week, when Ms. Reid was confronted with a new batch of homophobic writings from that same period, she said she had been the victim of hackers.That claim was called into question on Tuesday, when the Internet Archive, the meticulous online record-keeping nonprofit that hosted the archived version of her site, said it had found no evidence to support her claim.Late Tuesday night, MSNBC provided documents that show Ms. Reid’s lawyers alerted Google and the Internet Archive to the alleged hacking in December, shortly after her public apology but long before the latest batch of posts appeared on social media.The latest group of alleged blog posts includes a great deal of material that might embarrass a prominent liberal figure like Ms. Reid, including expressions of disgust at the thought of homosexuality, opposition to gay marriage, claims that gay men prey on “impressionable teens” and criticism of political correctness.“Most straight people cringe at the sight of two men kissing,” one post said. It concluded: “The nature of political correctness is that gay people are allowed to say straight sex is gross but the reverse is considered to be patently homophobic.”One of the posts also criticizes Rachel Maddow, who is now the most-watched host on MSNBC, as being “at the left-most end of the political spectrum” when it comes to gay rights. (Ms. Reid hosts a weekend morning show on MSNBC, but at the time she kept her blog active neither she nor Ms. Maddow had shows on the network.)Ms. Reid did not respond to a request for comment on Tuesday, but MSNBC provided a statement from Jonathan Nichols, a cybersecurity consultant working on her case.He said her blog was “breached” in December and that “fraudulent entries” were posted “with suspicious formatting and time stamps,” including “text and visual styling” that was not consistent with the rest of the blog.He said Ms. Reid’s team also had “significant evidence” that some of the posts circulating online — he did not say which ones — had never appeared on the blog and were instead doctored screenshots meant “to tarnish Ms. Reid’s character.”MSNBC also provided two letters sent by Ms. Reid’s lawyer, John H. Reichman, to Alphabet — Google’s parent company — and the Internet Archive in December alerting them to alleged hacking and requesting their assistance, which was not forthcoming.Hacked or not, the posts appear to have made an impact. On Tuesday, PFLAG, a group for the families of L.G.B.T. people, said it was canceling an award it had planned to give Ms. Reid this spring “in light of new information and the ongoing investigation of that information.”The newly discovered posts were found on the Wayback Machine, a project of the Internet Archive, and were shared on social media last week by the Twitter user who discovered Ms. Reid’s old blog posts last year. That user did not respond to a request for comment on Tuesday.In a statement to the website Mediaite, which wrote about the posts on Monday, Ms. Reid said hackers had planted them.“In December I learned that an unknown, external party accessed and manipulated material from my now-defunct blog, The Reid Report, to include offensive and hateful references that are fabricated and run counter to my personal beliefs and ideology,” the statement said. It added, “Now that the site has been compromised I can state unequivocally that it does not represent the original entries.”The Internet Archive responded to Ms. Reid’s claim on Tuesday, saying in a statement that it had found no evidence of hacking in the archived versions of her site on the Wayback Machine.The Internet Archive also said Ms. Reid’s lawyers asked the group to take down the archived version of her site in December because they said either the archive or the original site had been hacked.The archive said it was warned by Ms. Reid’s lawyers that “‘fraudulent’ posts were ‘inserted into legitimate content’ in our archives of the blog.” But an investigation found that claim to be untrue, according to the archive.“When we reviewed the archives, we found nothing to indicate tampering or hacking of the Wayback Machine versions,” the statement said, adding, “We let Reid’s lawyers know that the information provided was not sufficient for us to verify claims of manipulation.”The Internet Archive said it declined the request to remove Ms. Reid’s blog from the archive “due to Reid’s being a journalist (a very high-profile one, at that) and the journalistic nature of the blog archives.”Ms. Reid appeared eager to blunt the statement by the Internet Archive. Her security consultant, Mr. Nichols, said on Tuesday that “at no time has Ms. Reid claimed that the Wayback Machine was hacked” with an intention to alter her blog.Instead, he said Ms. Reid’s team detected a “breach” of the site that it thought may have been related to the posts on her blog but that it determined was unrelated.But it appears Ms. Reid may have taken matters into her own hands. The Internet Archive said that at some point during its correspondence with Ms. Reid’s lawyers, a robots exclusion protocol specific to the Wayback Machine was activated on her old blog.That protocol sends a signal to the archive, which the archive chooses to abide by, that can be used to get around the Wayback Machine’s policies and remove pages from the archive of the internet.Justin Bank contributed reporting.

Supported byBy Nicole PerlrothThe Department of Homeland Security is warning Americans planning to attend the 2018 Winter Olympic Games in Pyeongchang that cybercriminals are likely to be targeting the Games.Officials in South Korea are facing a double threat. At the Olympic Committee’s Security Command Center in an unmarked facility in Pyeongchang, security experts from around the world are monitoring threats from North Korean hackers who have been probing the computer networks that manage South Korean finance, media and critical infrastructure systems for years.And while some people believe that diplomatic efforts may have eased the North Korean threat to the Games, others are bracing for the impact of a hacking campaign by Russian groups retaliating for a ban on Russian athletes. Security companies said these groups had successfully targeted the computer systems of Olympic-related organizations months ago.Just how those hacks could lead to broader attacks is not clear. But cybersecurity researchers said the Olympic Games — more digitized than ever — are ripe targets for hackers searching for embarrassing information on everyone from athletes to organizers or simply looking to cause trouble by manipulating scoring or lighting systems.More than 300 Olympics-related computer systems have already been hit, with many of them compromised, the security company McAfee said last month, in what its investigators described as a preliminary hacking campaign. On Friday, the second stage of that attack appeared to be underway, as assailants siphoned data from victims’ machines back to their own computers systems, McAfee’s researchers said.Who was doing it and why they were doing it could take several months to figure out. Ryan Sherstobitoff, a senior analyst at McAfee, said the hacks had appeared to be well organized and backed by substantial resources, with “the hallmarks of a nation state.” What that nation state planned to do with the stolen data and its foothold in victims’ machines, Mr. Sherstobitoff said, was still anyone’s guess.A spokesman for the International Olympic Committee declined to comment on how the organization was addressing the heightened threats.Security researchers often discuss risks with a level of informed paranoia. Some of their warnings are based on what is possible but has not actually occurred in the real world. On other occasions, their warnings are based on what has already happened, and where those incidents could lead.But cyberattacks on international events have become common. The 2015 nuclear negotiations in Geneva and the 2009 climate talks in Copenhagen, for example, were plagued by hackers from various nation states. The Olympics are another alluring target — but with wall-to-wall television coverage.“The Olympics involve so many countries, and so many sports, many of which have their own infrastructure, that it has become a rich target environment for many adversaries,” said John Hultquist, director of threat intelligence at the security firm FireEye.He has been tracking the activities of Russian hackers and other groups as they lay the groundwork for attacks on Olympic organizations. In the past few months, Mr. Hultquist said, his team at FireEye has seen several examples of Russian groups tampering with the computers of Olympic-related organizations. The activity is “obviously meant to drag Olympics-related organizations through the mud and discredit them,” he said.The Russian cyberespionage group known as Fancy Bear, which has been tied to the 2016 hack of the Democratic National Committee and has links to Russia’s main military intelligence unit, has already started posting hacked emails intended to highlight discord among global sports officials and investigators who exposed systemic Russian doping.Last month, the group posted emails and other documents online from the International Luge Federation, claiming they demonstrated violations of antidoping rules. And earlier in January, the group released hacked emails and documents from the International Olympic Committee, which it advertised as proof “the Europeans and the Anglo-Saxons are fighting for power and cash in the sports world.”Trend Micro, the Tokyo-based security company, said its researchers had also witnessed Fancy Bear attacks on the International Ice Hockey Federation, the International Ski Federation, the International Biathlon Union, and the International Bobsleigh and Skeleton Federation in the final months of 2017. The attacks occurred while an International Olympic Committee disciplinary panel was preparing bans for dozens of Russian athletes caught doping in the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi, Russia.“The Kremlin has its fingerprints on cyberattacks that were retribution for exposing the Russians’ Sochi games doping scheme, which was a fraud on the purity of sport,” said Doug DePeppe, a founder of Sports ISAO, a nonprofit cybersecurity organization in Colorado Springs. The group is trying to help sports associations, including Olympic organizations, combat threats.“Their goal is to say, ‘No one is following the rules, and Russia shouldn’t be singled out,’” Mr. DePeppe said.FireEye, McAfee and other security companies said that over the past few months they had seen attack groups from Russia, and others of unknown origin, dispatch hundreds of “spearphishing” emails, laced with malicious links and attachments, to target Olympic-related groups.They also have seen the groups set up computer servers under the names of some of their targets and seemingly innocuous organizations like the South Korean Ministry of Forestry. They warn that those activities could be a prelude for a broader Russian campaign.In 2016, Russian hackers targeted the World Anti-Doping Agency after it recommended that Russian athletes be banned from the 2016 Rio Games because of doping. The personal data of more than 40 athletes was leaked not long after.The worst-case scenario would be attacks in which hackers tried to shut off lights in a stadium during an event, or perhaps even tampered with electronic timing results, warned Betsy Cooper, the executive director at the Center for Long-Term Cybersecurity at the University of California, Berkeley.To protect the Olympics, South Korea has mobilized tens of thousands of security personnel, including cybersecurity analysts and 50,000 soldiers, in what has been described as one of the most militarized security forces in Olympic history.Over the past few weeks, the United States State Department has set up a temporary security monitoring operation on one floor of its embassy in Seoul. Analysts from the State Department, the intelligence community and the Department of Homeland Security are scheduled to arrive there this week.But an official who was briefed on the State Department-led operation, and who was not allowed to discuss it publicly, worried that the operation was too focused on combating traditional threats like physical attacks on venues.The State Department did not reply to a request for comment.Elsewhere in Pyeongchang, an alliance of security personnel from South Korea, various Olympic sponsors, technology suppliers and cybersecurity sleuths from around the world are monitoring computer screens and potential threats at the unmarked Security Command Center.Each country participating in the Olympics also has its own security delegation on the ground, with those from the United States and Israel among the largest. Those delegations are busy conducting their own threat assessments and receiving daily threat briefings from South Korean law enforcement authorities.While cybersecurity experts believe the North Korean threat was lessened by the last-minute addition of a North Korean delegation to the Games, they have not ruled out that North Korea may be looking to embarrass its southern neighbor.“One thing is for certain: We can’t simply rely on these actors to behave themselves in this context,” Mr. Hultquist said. “They’ve proven, again and again, over the past few years that they are not afraid to flout international norms and create chaos.”Follow Nicole Perlroth on Twitter: @nicoleperlroth.

Supported byThe ShiftBy Kevin RooseIf there’s a single lesson Americans have learned from the events of the past year, it might be this: Hackers are dangerous people. They interfere in our elections, bring giant corporations to their knees, and steal passwords and credit card numbers by the truckload. They ignore boundaries. They delight in creating chaos.But what if that’s the wrong narrative? What if we’re ignoring a different group of hackers who aren’t lawless renegades, who are in fact patriotic, public-spirited Americans who want to use their technical skills to protect our country from cyberattacks, but are being held back by outdated rules and overly protective institutions?In other words: What if the problem we face is not too many bad hackers, but too few good ones?The topic of ethical hacking was on everyone’s mind at Def Con, the hacker convention last week in Las Vegas. It’s the security community’s annual gathering, where thousands of hackers gathered to show their latest exploits, discuss new security research and swap cyberwar stories. Many of the hackers I spoke to were gravely concerned about Russia’s wide-ranging interference in last year’s election. They wanted to know: How can we stop attacks like these in the future?The problem, they told me, is that the government doesn’t make it easy for well-meaning hackers to pitch in on defense. Laws like the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act make poking around inside many government systems, even for innocent research purposes, a criminal offense. More than 209,000 cybersecurity jobs in the United States currently sit unfilled, according to a 2015 analysis of labor data by Peninsula Press, and the former head of the National Security Agency said last year that the agency’s cybersecurity experts “are increasingly leaving in large numbers” for jobs in the private sector.Partly, that’s because private sector jobs tend to pay more. But it’s also because the government can be an inhospitable place for a hacker. Talented hackers can be disqualified for government jobs by strict background checks, and dissuaded by hiring processes that favor candidates with more formal credentials. At Def Con, I heard stories about hackers who had interviewed for government security jobs only to be turned away because they’d smoked pot as a teenager, or violated copyright law by jail-breaking their video game console.These rules may keep a few bad apples away from critical government systems, but they also prevent many talented hackers from contributing. At Def Con, I spoke with Sean Kanuck, a former C.I.A. intelligence analyst who served as the federal government’s national intelligence officer for cyberissues from 2011 to 2016. He said that hackers could be enormously valuable, if they were properly enlisted in the fight against attacks.“These people may be all hackers, and they may occasionally break the law, but they all still want the banking system to work,” Mr. Kanuck said. “All of them, if they end up in a hospital room, they want the infusion pump working. There’s common ground. And the knowledge here is incredible.”The private sector has already discovered the benefits of hackers. Most major tech companies — including Facebook, Apple and Microsoft — offer “bug bounty” programs, in which they offer financial rewards to hackers who find holes in their security measures. These companies know that paying hackers up front for their expertise is significantly cheaper than cleaning up after a breach, and they understand that the risk of a hacker going rogue inside their systems is outweighed by the benefits of having well-trained experts catch bugs and vulnerabilities before the bad guys do.Government agencies are beginning to experiment with a similar approach. The Defense Department offered the first-ever federal bug bounty program last year, called Hack the Pentagon. The agency allowed more than 1,400 hackers to take aim at its public-facing websites without fear of punishment, and the effort resulted in 138 legitimate vulnerabilities being reported. A similar program involving the Department of Homeland Security has been proposed in the Senate.The most talked-about session at this year’s Def Con was when hackers were let loose on a series of computerized voting machines. These machines had been used in recent American elections, and most ran on comically outdated software. Hackers eventually broke into every machine and were able to manipulate the software to register fake ballots and change vote totals. (One enterprising hacker even rigged a voting machine to play the music video for Rick Astley’s “Never Gonna Give You Up.”)There is, of course, the problem of outdated software. But some of the world’s best security researchers have also been prohibited from poking and prodding at these machines by a thicket of copyright and anti-tampering laws. (The reason Def Con was able to test them at all is a 2015 exemption to the Digital Millennium Copyright Act that gave researchers a temporary pass to experiment on voting machines.) Now that white-hat hackers have found flaws in these machines, they can pass that knowledge on to the manufacturers and election officials, who can secure the machines ahead of the next election cycle.Hackers, it turns out, respond to incentives. But current laws don’t allow hackers to test critical government systems outside of official agency-sponsored programs. As a result, we’re missing out on important advice.Take it from me. Several years ago, as part of an article on ethical hacking, I invited a pair of world-class hackers to hack me, using all of the tools at their disposal. The results were shocking. Within days, the hackers had gained access to nearly every piece of my digital life: my cellphone, my bank account, all of my email inboxes and social media profiles. The hackers showed me how, with a few more clicks, they could have stolen all of my data and used it to ruin my life. Then, they helped me protect myself against a future attack by strengthening my passwords, fortifying my devices and teaching me what suspicious activities to look out for.Not all hackers are so helpful. But many are, and we should take advantage of their willingness to help secure our national infrastructure. Maybe federal workers should be subjected to a simulated hack before being allowed to access sensitive information. Or perhaps the government could create a white list of approved security researchers with a track record of ethical hacking, who would be given legal immunity for their work. Private sector companies have figured out how to bring in outside security expertise carefully, without creating a hacker free-for-all, and the government can, too.Spending a weekend at Def Con is a good way to learn how many dangers lurk in the digital world. (It wasn’t just voting machines, hackers also demonstrated hacks on cars, kitchen appliances and all manner of other connected devices.) It’s also a way to appreciate how necessary ethical hackers are to a modern democracy, especially one that is under siege from foreign online attackers.To paraphrase an organization with close ties to the government: The only thing that stops a bad guy with a hack is a good guy with a hack.

