Supported byBy Karen WeiseSEATTLE — Microsoft took control of 99 websites that it said Iranian hackers had used to try to steal sensitive information from targets in the United States, according to court documents unsealed Wednesday.By taking over the sites, Microsoft can stop future cyberattacks and monitor how previously infected computers were compromised, the company said.The hackers “specifically directed” their attacks on people in Washington, Microsoft said in the filing. The hacking group typically has targeted the personal email accounts of people working in both the public and private sectors, including dissidents and workers in government agencies, Microsoft said in court documents.People working in the Treasury Department and similar agencies in other Western governments were among those targeted, according to a person with knowledge of the attacks who spoke on the condition of anonymity.The Treasury Department, which did not immediately respond to a request for comment, oversees economic sanctions against Iran.Microsoft sued the hackers in the United States District Court in Washington and asked to gain control of the sites, saying the hackers had harmed its brand and the value of its trademarks by impersonating its products to trick victims. On March 15, Judge Amy Berman Jackson granted a temporary restraining order that let Microsoft take over the websites.Microsoft said the hacking group, which it calls Phosphorus but is also known as APT 35 and Charming Kitten, had been linked to Iran. The group uses a technique known as spear phishing, sending email and social media links to victims while imitating the personas of people or institutions they may know. That either prompts the users to click on links that install malware that lets the hackers spy on the victims’ computers, or prompts the victims to enter their login credentials, which the hackers then later use to log in to official systems.The Iranian hackers faked the look and language of several Microsoft products, including LinkedIn, OneDrive and Hotmail, Microsoft said in the documents.By seizing the sites, Microsoft set up what is known as a “sinkhole,” which lets it monitor the traffic that otherwise would have been captured by the hackers.“While we’ve used daily security analytics tracking to stop individual Phosphorus attacks and notify impacted customers, the action we executed last week enabled us to take control of websites that are core to its operations,” Tom Burt, a Microsoft security executive, said in a blog post.Microsoft has used this legal and technical approach before, including for fighting the botnets that spit out spam email. It also used the approach against Fancy Bear, a hacking group widely considered to be affiliated with Russian intelligence, which Microsoft said had targeted think tanks and political groups in the United States and Europe.

Supported byBy Adam GoldmanA proliferation of digital spying tools in recent years has helped generate a surge in sophisticated espionage operations, once mostly the purview of major powers like the United States and Russia. Now, small countries, corporations and even simply wealthy people looking to settle scores can all hire private firms to conduct intelligence operations.A New York Times investigation detailed this new era of digital warfare and the multibillion-dollar industry behind it. Two firms — NSO, an Israeli company, and DarkMatter, based in the United Arab Emirates — have hired former government hackers to help their government clients not only hack criminal elements like terrorist groups and drug cartels but in some cases to also act on darker impulses, targeting activists and journalists.[Hackers for hire: How former American and Israeli government operatives conduct espionage on behalf of authoritarian governments]Governments rely on surveillance as part of legitimate law enforcement investigations. NSO, selling technology created by graduates of Intelligence Unit 8200 — Israel’s equivalent of the National Security Agency — says it “helps government agencies prevent and investigate terrorism and crime to save thousands of lives around the globe.” Mexican officials have credited NSO technology as pivotal in helping to track and capture El Chapo, the drug lord convicted in New York last month. DarkMatter helps with internal security in the United Arab Emirates, former employees said, thwarting terrorism and helping the police solve crimes.But the Mexican government is also suspected of using NSO tools to spy on its own citizens, including journalists and activists. Saudi Arabia was also accused in a lawsuit of using NSO tools to spy on associates of Jamal Khashoggi, the Washington Post columnist who was killed in October by Saudi operatives in the kingdom’s embassy in Istanbul.The government of the United Arab Emirates used both DarkMatter and NSO tools to spy on Ahmed Mansoor, a prominent human rights activist, The Times found.The proliferation of companies trying to compete in what Moody’s estimates is a $12 billion market for so-called lawful intercept spyware has set off a fierce competition to hire American, Israeli and Russian veterans of the world’s most sophisticated intelligence agencies — and for the companies to poach talent from one another.NSO’s business model appears to be paying off. Francisco Partners, a private equity firm, purchased a 70 percent stake in the company for $130 million six years ago. This year, NSO had a valuation of just under $1 billion.F.B.I. agents and federal prosecutors in Washington are trying to determine whether any Americans working for DarkMatter broke United States law. Investigators are examining whether DarkMatter employees committed internet fraud if they hacked into American servers or email accounts such as Google or Yahoo or whether they violated export laws.The Americans, some of whom worked for the N.S.A. and the C.I.A., should have sought an export license from the United States government when they accepted jobs at DarkMatter, according to people familiar with the investigation. But DarkMatter defenders say foreign companies do not need to apply for an export license and the Americans provided no technical data or secret tools to the Emirati government, nor were they engaged in training or assisting Emirati military forces.“It’s a dangerous area,” said Edward Y. Kim, a former federal prosecutor who was the co-chief of the complex fraud and cybercrime unit in the United States attorney’s office in Manhattan. “I think, sometimes, you have folks who come from that the national security side who are adept at the technical aspects of the work but not the legal complications.”Follow Adam Goldman on Twitter: @adamgoldmanNYT.

Supported byFrugal TravelerFinding the lowest airfare has become a favorite frugal pastime, and there are websites to help you nail down cheap fares. Some strategies, however, are dicey.By Elaine GlusacBetween bargain-shopping travelers and airlines flashing ephemeral prices, searching for the lowest airfares can feel like a game of cat and mouse. Sometimes, the game carries real-world risks, including the recent news that Lufthansa is suing a passenger who the airline contends intentionally skipped a flight leg using a largely prohibited budget-booking practice known as hidden city.Bargain hunting has led to a rise in cheap travel websites and rules of thumb for booking, such as flying at off-peak times and on slower days.“People would like a simple rule, but in practice there isn’t a single day or time to buy,” said Patrick Surry, the chief data scientist for Hopper, an airfare prediction app. Factors most impacting airfares, he said, are “the day you travel, how long you stay and the airport you’re flying.” How far in advance you book can also determine the price you pay.Airfares reflect the adage that time is money; for bargain-hunters the less money you spend, the more time you’re likely to spend in the airport. Hopper found that fliers can save 5 percent on airfares by changing from direct to one-stop fares, and 2 percent above that for moving from a one- to a two-stop ticket. Of course, those non-direct fares will mean spending more time stuck in airports. Long layovers will also save you money: A layover of more than 12 hours means an average of a 6-percent savings on your airfare.Having flexibility in travel is one sure way to get the best fare. Many search engines, including Kayak and Hopper, allow users to register for price-alert tracking that recommends whether to buy now or wait for future price drops. The app HitList allows users to track a route with unspecified dates or lengths of travel.Other booking ploys, surveyed below, may or may not get you into trouble with the airlines.Hidden city fares are one-way tickets through a connecting city where passengers intentionally stay in the layover city. For example, a flier from New York City to San Francisco may find it cheaper to book a one-stop flight to Seattle connecting through San Francisco, disembark there and not take the last leg to Seattle. The practice is known as skiplagging.Finding these fares required a lot of scattershot searching and knowledge of airline competition until the website Skiplagged.com automated it in 2013. Its founder, Aktarer Zaman, was sued for deception by United Airlines and the online travel agency Orbitz in 2015, but that lawsuit was dismissed based on jurisdiction, and the website is still going strong.Clearly, airlines don’t like skiplagging, which prevents them from selling the empty seat. Delta, United and American now explicitly ban exploiting fare rules in their contracts of carriage. For example, American Airlines states that “reservations made to exploit or circumvent fare and ticket rules are strictly prohibited.” This includes purchasing a ticket “without intending to fly all flights to gain lower fares (hidden city).”Some also argue the practice is unethical. “For every dollar someone scams, and I do think it’s a scam, that dollar is going to be placed back into the airfare structure of the airlines that everyone else pays,” said George Hobica, the founder of Airfarewatchdog.com, a site that monitors airfare deals.Mr. Zaman looks at the practice differently. “When you go to the store and buy a bag of chips, is it unethical to finish only half of it?” Mr. Zaman said. He notes that Skiplagged.com is for the average American flier — who flies two times a year, according to the trade association Airlines for America — not for someone who intends to book hidden city routes often.“Our mission is to make it easier to experience the world,” Mr. Zaman added. “We make flying more accessible, so we’re fighting against price discrimination and the way airlines try to take advantage of everybody.”Some airlines would beg to disagree. In the recent Lufthansa litigation, the airline sued a passenger, claiming a contract violation when he skipped the last leg of his flight on a one-stop ticket from Seattle to Oslo via Frankfurt. The airline’s conditions of carriage stipulate that a fare is only valid if flown in the booked order (the order of flights listed in the itinerary), according to a spokeswoman for Lufthansa. Many flight hacks are termed hacker fares, but Kayak popularized the term used in its search results on round-trip queries to show two one-way tickets, often on competing airlines, at rock-bottom prices.For example, a recent search for fares from Chicago to Los Angeles turned up nonstop round trips on United from $321, versus $275 with an outbound on Delta and a return on American. Round-trip prices for the same itinerary turned up fares of $372 on Delta and $312 on American, both more expensive than that $275 combination of two one-way fares.“Hacker fares are what Kayak does to discover cheapness, but also more diversity in results in terms of flight schedules,” Giorgos Zacharia, the chief technology officer at Kayak, said. “Domestically, if you fly out with one airline and return with a different one you can create a lot of savings.”Other search engines will also show one-way ticketing results for savings. Skyscanner, for example, calls them mash-ups. In most cases, fliers must click out of the search engines and into booking ones — either an online travel agency or the airline itself — and make the two bookings in quick succession to ensure the deal doesn’t disappear.Sometimes a ticket purchased from within a foreign country costs less than the same airfare in the United States. That’s because airlines price their flights based on competitive factors in local markets, including the wealth of consumers and their willingness to fly.Airline search engines can tell where you reside based on your computer’s internet Protocol or I.P. address. Users can mask that address by subscribing to a VPN or Virtual Private Network, which allows you to search anonymously (plans at NordVPN, one provider, start at $2.99 a month). Some travel strategists believe this works.From my own experiment comparing search results for international flights using a VPN and an internet address in Chicago, I got mixed results. Using the VPN, Air China asked me to identify my country and language, and then gave me the same $739 search result for a flight between San Francisco and Beijing that I found when using my office computer. However, when I searched for internal flights in a foreign country — flights between Buenos Aires, for example, and Bariloche in Argentina — I found the same itinerary for $302 on my office computer in Chicago versus $249 (after converting from pesos) using the VPN (in this instance, one would want to buy any foreign ticket using a credit card without exchange fees).VPNs are legal in the United States. Though often associated with dark uses of the web, they can also protect you when using free public Wi-Fi.An easier approach may be to use a foreign travel agent. Tierra Hotels, which operates lodges in Chile’s Atacama Desert, Patagonia and Lakes regions, often refers North American guests to the Santiago-based travel agency Cocha for flights from the capital to its properties. Cocha recently found round-trip tickets between Santiago and Punta Arenas in Patagonia for $262 versus results I received searching Latam Airlines from my office in Chicago at $324.Open-jaw tickets, often called multi-stop bookings on airline sites, are for round-trip flights that arrive at one destination and leave from another. For example, you may wish to fly from New York to London, then take the Eurostar train to continental Europe and later fly back home from Paris.Open jaws can save you money, especially on international itineraries as one-way flights outside the United States are often costly. Most airlines and search engines offer multi-stop search options, making the practice easy.Better yet, use open-jaw fares to expand your airport searches to get more results. While both are London airports, flying into Heathrow and back from Gatwick, for example, is technically an open-jaw booking. To ensure you get results from all possible combinations, search using a generic destination like London or an option for any airport in the area rather than a specific airport, bearing in mind that budget airlines often use secondary airports.A recent search for flights between London and Paris, cities with multiple airports, turned up a round-trip fare of $182 on British Airways, flying from London City Airport to Charles de Gaulle Airport in Paris and returning to Heathrow, versus $197 on an Air France flight between Heathrow and Charles de Gaulle. One of the cheapest fares was on the low-cost carrier easyJet: $170 round trip, from Charles de Gaulle to Heathrow, and back to Paris from London Southend Airport.HIDDEN CITY FARES Most airlines prohibit exploiting these pricing loopholes, though few have prosecuted.HACKER FARES Another term for two one-way tickets and perfectly legal.RESIDENT FARES Masking your computer’s address to get fares reserved for local residents may not be illegal but it is technically complex. Try using a foreign travel agent.OPEN-JAW TICKETS A good approach for surveying itinerary and pricing options.Follow NY Times Travel on Twitter, Instagram and Facebook. Get weekly updates from our Travel Dispatch newsletter, with tips on traveling smarter, destination coverage and photos from all over the world.

Supported bySmart home devices can make life more convenient, but may put you at risk of being hacked. Ensure your safety with a few simple measures.By Rachel CericolaMs. Cericola is a Staff Writer at Wirecutter, the product review site owned by The New York Times Company.By connecting smart devices like lights, cameras, door locks and thermostats to the Internet, you may be making them — and you — visible to digital thieves or hackers. “Every device connected to the Internet is a target,” said Theresa Payton, a former White House chief information officer and the founder and chief executive of Fortalice Solutions. A few recent news stories also illustrate the power these devices have. One family’s living room Wi-Fi camera was infiltrated, allowing someone to not only control the camera and spy on them, but to broadcast sound — including a false report of a nuclear missile attack. We’ve also seen domestic abusers tap into smart home technology to intimidate and stalk former partners.According to statistics website Statista, there will be about 42 million smart homes by the end of 2019, but little more than anecdotal evidence of security compromises. So while stories about hacks and privacy breaches are indeed scary, so far they’re also rare. The vast majority of smart home users aren’t getting hacked. Still, as with any internet-connected device, taking precautions is essential. At Wirecutter, the New York Times company that reviews products, we’ve consulted with a range of experts who offered some tips that will go a long way toward protecting you and your home — and don’t require a lot of time, money or technical know-how. We’ve also done extensive testing of smart home devices and we consider a product’s security measures as part of our evaluation process.One of the things that makes smart home devices “smart” is their ability to connect to the internet over your home’s Wi-Fi network. That’s why it’s essential that you properly secure it. If you don’t protect your Wi-Fi network with a password, or you only use the default password that came with your modem or router, all of your devices are exposed — the digital equivalent of leaving your front door wide open with a neon welcome sign overhead. “People need to realize there’s actually catalogs of all those default passwords on the internet,” Ms. Payton said. Lock your network down with a password, one that is unique and not shared with any other accounts you have. Ms. Payton also suggests completely hiding your home network from view, an option in your router’s settings menu. “So when somebody drives by, they think you don’t have internet. They can’t see it,” she said.You can add another layer of protection by isolating your smart home devices from your computers and smartphones using a guest network, a common option in many popular routers. “That way, the devices will be sort of quarantined by themselves,” said David Templeton, an information security analyst at The New York Times. Doing this also makes it easier to take devices offline without having to upset your entire network.Many people make the mistake of using the same username and password combination on multiple devices or accounts. If any one of those combinations is discovered — as happens a lot, such as when giant companies like Facebook and Yahoo get hacked — an enterprising thief could try them out on popular banking websites, social networks, email providers and websites that allow control of smart devices. You need to use unique passwords for everything — including shopping sites you visit, services you use, your home network and of course, each of your smart home devices. Remembering such an encyclopedia of passwords is functionally impossible, which is why Mr. Templeton suggests using a password manager, which not only creates unique passwords automatically but also keeps track of them across all your devices. Wirecutter has suggestions for the best ones to use here.All of our security experts agree that it’s best to pick smart devices from established brands. Those companies have a reputation to protect, along with the infrastructure to back it up. That also means they likely have the ability to employ better security measures when designing their products, and unlike no-name brands or many start-ups, you can reasonably expect them to release software patches and fixes if vulnerabilities are discovered. And naturally, we recommend reading good, high-quality reviews (and admittedly, we’re biased toward our own) before making a purchase.There are a few additional ways to further secure your smart devices. A number of companies now offer a verification system to control access to devices, called two-factor authentication. When you attempt to log into an app, a one-time-use code is sent to another of your devices, which then needs to be entered in the original app. It’s not perfect, but makes it virtually impossible for someone unwanted to access your accounts. Also, many manufacturers allow you to opt into automatic hardware and software updates, something that will ensure the latest fixes get installed to repair new security vulnerabilities. Make sure you check the settings section of your devices’ apps and your smartphone’s app marketplace for updates to devices that don’t automatically do this.Ms. Payton said she also reboots smart home devices once a week as an added security measure. “That reboot will actually make it grab any new security and privacy settings and downloads when it reconnects to the internet,” she explained. However, this is impractical for some devices, especially ones that are hard-wired into your home like in-wall dimmers and smart thermostats.Just because you’re ready to ditch a device doesn’t mean it’s ready to forget you. After all, your Wi-Fi password and other personal info is often stored on that camera, smart plug or smart bulb. Before selling or recycling any device, be sure to do a factory reset first. Some devices require a button-press on the actual device, while others allow you to do it from the app. Either way, make sure that your info is no longer available through the app.If a device is broken and you’re unable to wipe it clean, make sure it’s really broken and smash its components to pieces. According to the United States Computer Emergency Readiness Team, “Physical destruction of a device is the ultimate way to prevent others from retrieving your information.” I like to think about all those times a device stopped working or disconnected from the network, and the idea of whacking it with a hammer. Just make sure you don’t hurt yourself in the process.There is mounting pressure on manufacturers to adopt better security practices. “The industry should be using strong encryption wherever possible, verifying firmware updates and inviting security audits,” said Bennett Cyphers, a staff technologist at the Electronic Frontier Foundation. The E.F.F. and organizations like The Digital Standard and the Mozilla Foundation are pressuring companies and government bodies to put stronger security practices in place. But everyone we spoke to agrees that, for now, consumers need to be proactive about security. “Honestly, given where we are and how businesses think about security and privacy, the onus is on you. Nobody can look out for your security and privacy like you can for you and your family,” Ms. Payton said.Sign up for the Wirecutter Weekly Newsletter and get our latest recommendations every Sunday. A version of this article appears at Wirecutter.com.

Supported byBy Nicole PerlrothSAN FRANCISCO — North Korean hackers who have targeted American and European businesses for 18 months kept up their attacks last week even as President Trump was meeting with North Korea’s leader in Hanoi.The attacks, which include efforts to hack into banks, utilities and oil and gas companies, began in 2017, according to researchers at the cybersecurity company McAfee, a time when tensions between North Korea and the United States were flaring. But even though both sides have toned down their fiery threats and begun nuclear disarmament talks, the attacks persist.In 2017, Mr. Trump mocked Kim Jong-un as “rocket man” in a speech at the United Nations, while North Korea tested missiles capable of delivering a nuclear warhead to the United States. The attacks began soon after that. Though the two sides failed to reach an agreement last week, Mr. Trump struck a conciliatory tone toward his North Korean counterpart.The revelation of North Korea’s most recent hacking activity adds new details to the tensions surrounding the summit meeting last week, which ended abruptly without any deals. After their first meeting, about eight months earlier, North Korea had agreed to stop test-firing its missiles.“For 15 months, they haven’t tested weapons because of this negotiation but over those same 15 months they have not stopped their cyber activity,” said Victor Cha, the Korea chairman at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington.With the help of an unnamed foreign law enforcement agency, the McAfee researchers gained access to one of the main computer servers used by the North Korean hackers to stage their attacks.The McAfee researchers said they watched, in real time, as the North Koreans attacked the computer networks of more than a hundred companies in the United States and around the globe. Last month, they expanded their targets to companies in Turkey, operating from a block of internet addresses traced to Namibia, one of the few countries that still maintains friendly relations with Pyongyang.“They are very, very, very active. It’s been nonstop,” said Raj Samani, McAfee’s chief scientist. “We’ve seen them hit in excess of 100 victims.”The exact motive of the attacks was not clear. They were well-researched and highly focused and, in many cases, aimed at engineers and executives who had broad access to their companies’ computer networks and intellectual property.McAfee, which is based in Santa Clara, Calif., would not name the targets of the attacks and said it would make its finding public Sunday. But the firm did provide a map of North Korean hackers’ targets.The vast majority were in the United States, with the most frequent marks in Houston, an oil and gas hub, and New York, a finance hub. Other major targets included London, Madrid, Tokyo, Tel Aviv, Rome, Bangkok, Taipei, Seoul and Hong Kong. Russia and mainland China, two countries that have maintained cordial relations with North Korea, were relatively untouched.North Korea, like the United States and many other countries, has long been accused of using hackers to further its national interests. In 2014, apparently in retaliation for a movie that mocked Mr. Kim, North Korean hackers hit Sony Pictures Entertainment. They destroyed Sony’s computer servers, paralyzed the studio’s operations and eventually leaked embarrassing emails from executives, in what would become a playbook for the Russian attacks and leaks of emails ahead of the 2016 elections.North Korean hackers have been tied to attacks on banks all around the world for financial gain — a rarity among government-affiliated hackers but not surprising for a country ravaged by economic sanctions. The “WannaCry” attack, which paralyzed more than 150 organizations around the globe in 2017, was also traced to North Korea.Mr. Cha, of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, said cyberattacks remained the “third leg” of North Korea’s overall military strategy. “They’re never going to compete with the United States and South Korea soldier to soldier, tank for tank,” he said. “So they have moved to an asymmetric strategy of nuclear weapons, ballistic missiles and the third leg is cyber, that we really didn’t become aware of until Sony.”Since the Sony attack, McAfee’s researchers said North Korea’s hackers had significantly improved their capabilities: They are much better at hiding their tracks and researching their targets. And in many of the attacks McAfee witnessed, North Korean hackers had done their homework.They scoured the Microsoft-owned business site LinkedIn, for example, to find the profiles of industry job recruiters. They sent emails that appeared to come from those recruiters’ accounts, often in perfect English, promoting job opportunities.When a target clicked on an attachment or link in the email, the hackers gained access to the target’s computer.“The campaign was clearly really well prepared,” said Christiaan Beek, McAfee’s senior principal engineer and lead scientist. “It was very well researched and very targeted. They knew the individuals they were going for, and they drafted emails in such a way that their targets clicked on them.”The tools they used to implant malware in the recent attacks, which McAfee’s researchers called “Rising Sun” because of a reference in the code, were also starkly improved.Though the implants shared code with previous North Korean attacks, McAfee’s researchers said the hackers added new functions to lift data off infected machines. They also went to great lengths to delete their digital movements and encrypt their traffic.Mr. Beek and Mr. Samani said their team at McAfee was able to follow the hackers’ movements only because of their access to the North Koreans’ server. “The more code we saw, the more links we could see to more and more attacks,” Mr. Beek said.Considering other recent North Korean hacking campaigns that McAfee’s researchers have tracked — notably against the 2018 Winter Olympics and a separate spate of attacks on banks last year — Mr. Beek said North Korea showed no signs of slowing this activity.Security experts said the attacks would have to be addressed at some point if the two countries should continue talks.“Their very aggressive cyberactivity will have to be addressed in future discussions,” Mr. Cha said. “They are extremely active and, it’s clear to me at least, they’ve stopped missile testing because of the ongoing negotiations, but they’re not stopping in cyber.”Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article misstated the length of time between the first and second summit meetings between President Trump and Kim Jong-un, North Korea’s leader. It was about eight months, not 15.Follow Nicole Perlroth on Twitter: @nicoleperlroth

Supported byBy Karen WeiseSEATTLE — Jeff Bezos’ security consultant accused the Saudi government of gaining unauthorized access to the Amazon chief executive’s phone, as part of an effort to harm the world’s richest man.In an opinion article in The Daily Beast on Saturday, Gavin de Becker, Mr. Bezos’ security chief, alleged the Saudis wanted to hurt Mr. Bezos because he owns The Washington Post. The Post has aggressively reported on the murder of Jamal Khashoggi, one of its columnists, who was killed last year in Turkey. United States officials have concluded Mr. Khashoggi, who was critical of Saudi leaders, was killed on the orders of the Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman.Mr. de Becker said he had turned over his findings about the Saudis and their role against Mr. Bezos to law enforcement.“Our investigators and several experts concluded with high confidence that the Saudis had access to Bezos’ phone, and gained private information,” Mr. de Becker wrote.Mr. de Becker’s claims about the Saudis are difficult to verify and raise many questions. Throughout his article, the security consultant was vague on details. He did not reveal direct evidence of his accusations and wrote that he would not speak again publicly on the issue.On Sunday, American Media Inc., the parent company of The National Enquirer, which first reported earlier this year that Mr. Bezos was having an extramarital affair, issued a statement denying “the false and unsubstantiated claims of Mr. de Becker.”Amazon did not immediately have a comment about Mr. Bezos. An official with the Saudi embassy in Washington declined to comment on Saturday.Mr. de Becker’s allegations are the latest twist in a bizarre situation that has embroiled the largest U.S. tabloid publisher and Mr. Bezos, who runs Amazon and owns The Post. The unusual set of circumstances began in January, when Mr. Bezos announced that he and his wife, MacKenzie Bezos, were divorcing. The next day, The Enquirer published an exposé revealing that Mr. Bezos was romantically involved with Lauren Sanchez, a former Los Angeles TV anchor.Then in February, Mr. Bezos published a post on Medium accusing AMI of “extortion and blackmail.” Mr. Bezos said AMI had threatened to publish graphic photographs of him, including a “below-the-belt selfie,” if he did not publicly affirm that The Enquirer’s reporting on his affair was not motivated by political concerns. He said AMI, which has had ties to the Saudis, was “apoplectic” about The Post’s reporting on the Saudis.Mr. Bezos added that he had asked Mr. de Becker, his longtime security consultant, to investigate who had leaked information and photos about him.Earlier this month, The New York Times reported that two people with direct knowledge of The Enquirer’s reporting said that everything the tabloid received on Mr. Bezos’ affair, including the “below-the-belt selfie,” came from a single source. The Wall Street Journal later reported that AMI had paid Ms. Sanchez’s brother, Michael Sanchez, $200,000 for the texts.In its statement on Sunday, AMI said directly that its source was Mr. Sanchez. “The fact of the matter is, it was Michael Sanchez who tipped the National Enquirer off to the affair on Sept. 10, 2018, and over the course of four months provided all of the materials for our investigation.” AMI added, “There was no involvement by any other third party whatsover.”Mr. de Becker on Saturday said that the effort against Mr. Bezos went beyond Mr. Sanchez and also involved the Saudis. Mr. de Becker pointed to an article published on Saturday by The New York Post in which Mr. Sanchez said The Enquirer “had seen text exchanges between the secret couple” before he was in touch with the tabloid on the matter.“Reality is complicated, and can’t always be boiled down to a simple narrative like ‘the brother did it,’” Mr. de Becker wrote.Mr. de Becker said his investigation included interviews with cybersecurity experts and “people who personally know the Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman.” But he stopped short of saying what methods he believed the Saudis may have used to access Mr. Bezos’ personal information.He added that AMI had wanted him to make a public statement “saying that my investigation had concluded they hadn’t relied upon ‘any form of electronic eavesdropping or hacking in their news-gathering process,’” and that the tabloid’s story was not “instigated, dictated or influenced in any manner by external forces, political or otherwise.”Mr. de Becker said he told AMI in a recorded call that those claims were “not my truth.”Follow Karen Weise on Twitter: @KYWeise.Amy Chozick and David Kirkpatrick contributed reporting.

Supported byBy David M. Halbfinger and Ronen BergmanNAHAL OZ, Israel — Benny Gantz, Israel’s former army chief, is campaigning to lead his country as the clean, moral alternative to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who faces indictment in a corruption scandal.But less than a month before the election, Mr. Gantz found himself fielding seamy-sounding questions late Friday about whether he had committed adultery, opened himself up to possible extortion or sandbagged his political allies to advance his own career.The awkward news appearance here at a kibbutz near the Gaza Strip followed a report on Israeli television that Mr. Gantz’s cellphone had been hacked by Iranian intelligence after his entry into politics in December and that personal and professional information had been stolen.Mr. Gantz retired from the military in 2015, so the issue is not whether classified information might now be in enemy hands, but that he could be vulnerable to blackmail if elected. The hack threatened to set back his bid, which polls have shown has the strongest chance of any opposition politician to depose Mr. Netanyahu. With rumors flying about what might have been harvested from Mr. Gantz’s cellphone, his party, the Blue and White, issued a statement saying the stolen data included “no security information, no embarrassing videos, and he was never a target of blackmail.”That was not enough to put a lid on the speculation, however, and so the laconic Mr. Gantz, whose campaign strategy has entailed saying as little as possible, hastily arranged his first news conference.His backdrop was the Gaza border, where a wave of Israeli airstrikes hit early Friday after two Hamas rockets had reached Tel Aviv for the first time since the summerlong war of 2014. That allowed Mr. Gantz, who prosecuted that war as army chief, to try to shame the Israeli press into focusing on more sober matters.“We are here in a story of an ongoing security event,” Mr. Gantz said, glowering in front of a barbed-wire fence, to dozens of journalists who had trekked the hour from Tel Aviv or Jerusalem shortly before the start of the Sabbath. “And in the reality we are in, someone suddenly broke some political, gossipy and completely delusional story.”Given that his party’s statement said there were no videos, he was asked, might there be embarrassing photos or correspondence? “I’m not going to stoop to that place,” he said, calling it “unethical nosiness.”Did he ever have a relationship with a woman that could be the basis for extortion? another reporter ventured. “I’m not subject to extortion under any circumstances,” he said, again refusing to go there.Mr. Gantz’s centrist Blue and White party is leading Mr. Netanyahu’s Likud in the polls in terms of the number of Parliament’s 120 seats it is expected to win. But the prime ministership is determined based on which leader can forge a majority governing coalition, a measure on which Mr. Gantz and his partners trail the incumbent and his right-wing allies.On Friday, Mr. Gantz flatly accused the prime minister of being “behind the reports about the telephone.”Mr. Gantz was informed of the hacking in early February by the Shin Bet, Israel’s domestic security service. That was before he joined forces with Yair Lapid, a former finance minister whose Yesh Atid party was trailing Mr. Gantz in the polls. Mr. Lapid agreed to let Mr. Gantz sit at the top of the ticket under an agreement that would have them swap the prime ministership midstream if they win.But Mr. Gantz did not apprise Mr. Lapid of the Iranian hack before striking that deal. In fact, Blue and White party officials said on Friday, Mr. Lapid and the two other former army chiefs of staff running alongside Mr. Gantz, Moshe Yaalon and Gabi Ashkenazi, were not informed of the breach until shortly before Thursday’s television report.Asked why he had not apprised his political brethren sooner, Mr. Gantz was dismissive. “Yair and the others aren’t relevant to this story,” he said.None of his three comrades, who have routinely campaigned alongside Mr. Gantz, joined him at the late-Friday news conference — though all three publicly echoed his contention that Mr. Netanyahu, who oversees the Shin Bet, had orchestrated the leak to damage him.Mr. Lapid said Mr. Netanyahu’s “use of sensitive security material to try to smear Benny Gantz proves he is scared of him.” And Mr. Yaalon told a TV interviewer that Mr. Netanyahu wanted to distract attention from the criminal cases in which he is accused of bribery, fraud and breach of trust.The prime minister’s office said that the chief of the Shin Bet, who reports directly to Mr. Netanyahu, had not briefed him or his aides about the hacking. His Likud party denied any hand in the leak.A security official involved in the matter said that Iran’s Ministry of Intelligence and Security, which has been engaged in a long-running spy-vs.-spy battle with Israel’s Mossad on multiple continents, had hacked Mr. Gantz’s phone and was behind a series of other cyber attacks against Israel.The incident was reminiscent of one early in Mr. Netanyahu’s rise to power. In 1993, he admitted to having an extramarital affair after he said anonymous rivals had threatened to release a compromising videotape. No tape was ever produced, and Mr. Netanyahu accused an archrival of being behind the scandal.David M. Halbfinger reported from Nahal Oz, Israel, and Ronen Bergman from Tel Aviv.

Supported byBy Tariq PanjaA computer hacker who for years published the innermost secrets of the global soccer industry — revelations that have shed light on questionable behavior by some of the sport’s most influential figures and top clubs — was told on Tuesday that he would be extradited to Portugal, where he faces charges linked to his activities.Lawyers for the man, Rui Pinto, 30, immediately said they planned to appeal the decision made by a court in Budapest, where he was arrested in January. They argued that his whistle-blowing activities far outweighed any crimes he might have committed in securing the documents. In Portugal, Mr. Pinto is charged with an extortion attempt in 2015 on a secretive investment fund that had bet millions of dollars in the player transfer market.The leaks first emerged in 2015, on a website called Football Leaks, before Mr. Pinto, a year later, joined with the German newsmagazine Der Spiegel and a group of other European news media organizations to slowly disseminate related news articles. They painted an unflattering picture of an industry troubled by questionable efforts to avoid millions of dollars in tax, flagrant rule breaking by some top clubs and an alleged sexual assault by one of soccer’s biggest stars, Cristiano Ronaldo.While the Portuguese authorities want to put Mr. Pinto on trial, their counterparts in France and Belgium have said they want to work with him, to gain access to the enormous database he has compiled as they continue investigations into figures in the soccer world. The ruling in Hungary makes that difficult, said Francisco Teixeira da Mota, who is part of a legal team that includes William Bourdon, a French lawyer who previously represented the national security whistle-blower Edward Snowden.Hungarian officials seized all of Mr. Pinto’s computer equipment, including hard drives containing the soccer industry data, when he was arrested. The Hungarian judge ruled that all of that can be sent to Portuguese authorities. That will chill efforts by the authorities in other countries, and make it impossible for further revelations to emerge, Mr. Teixeira da Mota said.“We think if he’s extradited to Portugal it would put a stop to all that,” he said, adding that the Portuguese case is limited to Mr. Pinto’s conduct in relation to the investment fund Doyen Sports and the soccer team Sporting Clube de Portugal.It is not clear how much of the data Der Spiegel possesses and how much of it the news weekly is prepared to share with investigators.While being hailed as a whistle-blower by many, Mr. Pinto’s past conduct has raised questions about his motives. He reached an out-of-court settlement with the Caledonian Bank after being accused of hacking into its systems and transferring thousands of dollars from one of its client accounts. Mr. Pinto denies he stole any of the money, but citing a nondisclosure agreement, he has declined to provide further details.As he awaits his fate, news media groups with access to his data continue to publish new revelations. As recently as last weekend, details emerged of an apparent effort by the Premier League giant Manchester City to circumvent fiscal rules set by European soccer’s governing body by disguising sponsorship payments, and another alleged scheme by the same club to run an off-the-books player recruitment fund.Mr. Pinto’s appeal is likely to take up to two weeks to be settled, his lawyer said.

Supported byCalifornia TodayBy Jill CowanGood morning.(Here’s the sign-up, if you don’t already get California Today by email.)Attorney General Xavier Becerra added one more lawsuit yesterday to the several dozen he’s filed against the Trump administration. This one aims to block moves that would effectively strip millions of dollars in federal funding from reproductive health care providers that perform abortions or abortion referrals.For those still keeping count, the total is now 47. It’s a figure that has placed Mr. Becerra squarely at the center of California’s resistance, along with Gov. Gavin Newsom, who’s also taken rhetorical aim at the president’s policies on immigration and the environment.Last night, the police detained a longtime Sacramento Bee reporter and arrested dozens of demonstrators protesting District Attorney Anne Marie Schubert’s announcement that she wouldn’t criminally prosecute two officers who shot and killed Stephon Clark, a 22-year-old black man whom they said they believed had a gun, but was unarmed.Mr. Clark’s family and activists called on Mr. Becerra — who, as I wrote yesterday, wields considerable power to pick his battles — to file charges instead, or face political consequences.Unless you work in the field, it’s easy to forget that all around the state, scientists are working to solve the universe’s toughest puzzles, or hurtling toward world-changing discoveries.Recently, I talked to a team of researchers at U.C. Irvine and U.C. Riverside who managed to make a finding that could be world-changing — and it’s kind of terrifying.It’s possible to record the subtle sounds of a DNA synthesis machine working in a lab and then reverse-engineer whatever genetic materials the machine is making.In other words, it’s possible to hack such a machine by, in effect, listening to it.The idea for the project, said Mohammad Al Faruque, an associate professor of electrical engineering and computer science at U.C.I., stemmed from his previous work stealing blueprints for things printed by a 3-D printer.“If you can eavesdrop on a machine, you can understand what it’s making,” he said. “And with the 3-D printer, we demonstrated that.”But if what you’re stealing is a genetic blueprint, the stakes are much higher. It could be health information or pharmaceuticals — or the recipe for a biological weapon.Philip Brisk, a U.C. Riverside associate professor of computer science and engineering, said that because Microsoft was working on DNA data storage, the finding could have implications for information security.And William Grover, a U.C. Riverside assistant professor of bioengineering, said that while not everybody has a 3-D printer or a DNA synthesizer, lots of people have Alexas or Google Homes.“Everybody makes noises in their day-to-day business, which can be vulnerable to side-channel attacks,” he said. And medical machines like the ones in health care offices also make noise.Still, before you get the urge to wrap your house in tinfoil, team members said the research was encouraging.First, Mr. Al Faruque said, as engineering as a discipline undergoes “a paradigm shift,” research is the result of a new kind of collaboration that will be necessary to solve increasingly multifaceted problems. The team, for example, needed bioengineering experts as well as computer engineers.“We had the right grouping of players,” he said.Second, doing research that highlights vulnerabilities makes it possible to design products with solutions in mind.Mr. Brisk said that right now, cost is often the top priority in designing labs and products. But this kind of research, he said, forces designers and engineers to pay attention to security, too.“You could optimize so that there’s less information bouncing around,” he said. “I’m sure the right type of engineering expertise exists somewhere.”(We often link to sites that limit access for nonsubscribers. We appreciate your reading Times stories, but we’d also encourage you to support local news if you can.)• Thousands of students and teachers returned to school in Oakland on Monday after a deal to give teachers a raise and improve some school conditions ended a seven-day strike. But protests continued yesterday as district officials cut $21.75 million from the budget for things like administrative jobs and restorative justice programs. [The East Bay Times]• A year ago at the Conservative Political Action Conference, the political right’s annual extravaganza, Google hosted a lavish hospitality suite and Facebook passed out emoji cookies. This year, big tech is a boogeyman and its representatives are nowhere to be found. [The New York Times]• The state Supreme Court handed down an important pension decision yesterday. All sides are claiming a win. Here’s what that means. [CALmatters]• San Francisco’s mayor, London Breed, wants the city’s largest and newest homeless service center to be built at a port-owned property with a great view. [The San Francisco Chronicle]• Federal officials have charged a Long Beach man with causing an explosion at an Aliso Viejo spa last year that killed the man’s ex-girlfriend. [NBC News]• At the 40th anniversary of San Francisco mainstay Zuni Café, the restaurant still serves a sublime burger and a killer margarita. Check out recipes. [The New York Times]• “When I started, the biggest challenge was not to be afraid of cutting a Napoleon wrong.” Here’s how Porto’s Bakery employees are getting ready to open a new West Covina store. (It’s bound to be crazy busy.) [Los Angeles Daily News]• A LeBron James-led team might not make the playoffs. [The New York Times]• Luke Perry, who created a teen heartthrob archetype on “Beverly Hills, 90210,” died yesterday after having a stroke. He was 52. Tributes flowed. [The New York Times]Sacramento has an “active turkey season.” It’s right now. And according to The Sacramento Bee, the fowl are strutting all over town.Wild turkeys near the Capitol. Wild turkeys in the street. A wild turkey enamored with its own reflection at the California Department of Social Services building. Wild turkeys pecking at shiny cars.And lest you think that they’re friendly creatures, a spokeswoman for the city said they’re not.“Sometimes they’re nasty, they’ll chase you.”Still, there are things you can do if you run across a rafter of turkeys. Mostly, you should just leave them alone. If they won’t leave you alone, a spray of water or a loud noise might send them waddling away.California Today goes live at 6:30 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.Jill Cowan grew up in Orange County, went to school at U.C. Berkeley and has reported all over the state, including the Bay Area, Bakersfield and Los Angeles — but she always wants to see more. Follow along here or on Twitter, @jillcowan.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.

Supported byWheelsBy Jim MotavalliGoing back at least a decade, cars have been targeted by hackers, some who ended up working with the industry, others acting maliciously. But vehicles now carry far more electronic equipment, and autonomous driving, relying on sensors, cameras and radar, is on the horizon, with all kinds of ripe new targets.Concern that cars could be seriously hacked — by criminals, terrorists or even rogue governments — has prompted a new round of security efforts on the part of the auto industry.As far back as 2010, a disgruntled former employee at Texas Auto Center in Austin used a co-worker’s account to log into company software used for car repossession. He disabled over 100 cars, and owners who were up to date on their payments suddenly found their vehicles honking furiously, and unable to start.In 2015, a veteran hacker named Samy Kamkar built a device for under $100 that he said could find, unlock and remotely start any General Motors car equipped with the OnStar communications system. Luckily, Mr. Kamkar was acting as a “white hat,” and not selling his OwnStar device to unscrupulous hackers.“I worked with G.M. to resolve that issue,” he said, and that particular vulnerability is gone. “Cars are getting more secure, but it’s a long cycle to get the necessary new software and hardware installed.”Dan Flores, a G.M. cybersecurity and safety spokesman, confirmed the collaboration with Mr. Kamkar. “We recognize the importance of the work that researchers, like Samy, do to help advance the work in this area,” he said in an email.Securing cars is a big challenge, which is why some companies that traditionally prefer to go it alone have teamed up to share best practices.Digital threats to self-driving cars, according to a 2018 University of Michigan report, “include hackers who would try to take control over or shut down a vehicle, criminals who could try to ransom a vehicle or its passengers and thieves who would direct a self-driving car to relocate itself to the local chop-shop.”The average car has over 150 million lines of computer code, and some have even more than a Boeing 787, according to a 2018 KPMG report. That complexity, the report said, “creates a real risk of cyberattack — a risk we fear many companies in the automotive industry may be underestimating.”That view is widespread. “From my perspective, automakers were a little surprised and caught off guard by this threat,” said Doug Newcomb, a senior industry analyst at Wards Intelligence. “They added all this connectivity, but got ahead of themselves and don’t always think of the vulnerabilities that exist. It’s an ongoing issue, not a fix-it-and-forget-it thing.”Failing to protect consumers can be costly, said Steve Tengler, a principal at the consulting company Kugler Maag Cie who has worked at Ford, Nissan and G.M., and was a senior director of connected vehicle cybersecurity at Honeywell.Automakers are legally bound to provide state-of-the-art protection for their cars, Mr. Tengler said. “Legal precedents show that it’s not enough to provide a product that is kind of safe,” he said. “Companies don’t have to put themselves out of business to provide the safest technology, but they do have to work within their commercial ability.”Mr. Tengler said the industry was a frequent target. “Every automaker has been hacked — every one of them,” he said. “Attacks aren’t a matter of if, but when and how.”Once a car is out of warranty, automakers are used to cutting or at least loosening their ties. But hacking issues mean that protection will most likely require factory-to-junkyard monitoring.In 2015, Fiat Chrysler recalled 1.4 million cars and trucks after Chris Valasek and Charlie Miller demonstrated, in a Wired magazine article, that they could remotely control a Jeep Cherokee’s brakes, radio, wipers and other functions by gaining access through its UConnect infotainment system.The company declined to comment on any subsequent security changes.Dr. André Weimerskirch, vice president for cybersecurity and functional safety at Lear Corporation, said that automakers had made “huge improvements” in recent years, and that joint efforts involving the industry, academia and standards organizations had also led to gains.Most car hackers have been wearing those white hats, with no criminal intent, but imagining what could happen led to the 2015 formation of the Automotive Information Sharing and Analysis Center, known as Auto-ISAC. Most of the world’s automakers are members.Faye Francy, the center’s executive director, described the Jeep episode as “a good wake-up call for the industry.”“The hackers are smart guys, very educated,” she said. “It’s not simple to do what they did. We’re fortunate that there hasn’t been another breach, but it’s not impossible.”Not impossible, but still difficult. Ron Plesco, a principal at KPMG Cyber Security Services, agrees that hacking into a car’s driver controls requires “a lot of knowledge and effort.”“It’s not as easy as Hollywood claims it is,” he said.That’s one reason we haven’t seen more major attacks. But Mr. Plesco argues that today there isn’t much incentive for thieves, since the identity information stored onboard vehicles is fairly limited.“But,” he added, “that’s about to change as we do more purchasing through the dashboard of the car. The automobile is becoming another computer that can be hacked.”New infotainment and autonomous features are important selling points, but because most consumers assume their cars are safe, automakers tend to keep cybersecurity news in the background. Much is happening behind the curtain, however. Some private security firms say they are signing on with major automakers to provide expert protection.“There are multiple ways for hackers to get in, and it’s the job of the whole industry to defend against it,” said Dan Sahar, a vice president at Upstream Security in Israel. “Just one hack can cost a manufacturer tens of millions of dollars, and that doesn’t include the brand damage. And the threat is getting more serious.”According to Mr. Sahar, “2018 saw more than 60 documented automotive-related cybersecurity incidents, a sixfold increase in just four years.”Upstream is working with “a handful” of manufacturers, Mr. Sahar said. “Automakers are focused on cybersecurity, but few say they can do it on their own,” he said.A 2019 Upstream report extrapolates a cost topping $1.1 billion for a breach that requires a large recall. The opportunity will certainly be there for criminal hackers. Juniper Research of Britain estimated in a 2018 report that by 2023 some 775 million cars would be connected to the web in some way (up from 330 million in 2018).Mr. Tengler, of Kugler Maag Cie, said it was easy to picture the danger that hackers posed to autonomous vehicles — potentially redirecting them as part of a theft. But the Jeep hack proved “it doesn’t matter if someone is driving,” he said. “If they can take control of the car, the vulnerable technology is already there.”Thieves have stolen cars by using fairly simple electronic technology, some of it freely available. A device that amplifies the signals from a car’s remote can be used to unlock the target vehicle’s doors. Mr. Kamkar said he had built such devices from off-the-shelf components for approximately $50.“It’s a lot simpler than people think,” he said.Other devices include a radio transmitter that cycles through huge numbers of possible combinations until they “crack” the target car’s key fob. In 2006, that was reportedly how the soccer star David Beckham’s armor-plated BMW X5 was stolen in Madrid. A second X5 belonging to Mr. Beckham was also stolen.“Car thieves used to have crowbars; now they use laptops,” said Mr. Plesco at KPMG.Jono Anderson, also a principal at KPMG, said the auto industry needed to learn from aerospace.“They’re very familiar with this kind of security,” Mr. Anderson said, “but it’s new to the auto industry. Maybe it’s possible to hack the entertainment system in a plane and get free movies, but it’s virtually impossible to hack the actual communications.”

Supported byBy Matthew RosenbergWASHINGTON — Aleksej Gubarev is a Russian technology entrepreneur who runs companies in Europe and the United States that provide cut-rate internet service. But he is best known for his appearance in 2016 in a dossier that purported to detail Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election — and the Trump campaign’s complicity.Mr. Gubarev’s companies, the dossier claimed, used “botnets and porn traffic to transmit viruses, plant bugs, steal data and conduct ‘altering operations’ against the Democratic Party leadership.”On Thursday, new evidence emerged that indicated that internet service providers owned by Mr. Gubarev appear to have been used to do just that: A report by a former F.B.I. cyberexpert unsealed in a federal court in Miami found evidence that suggests Russian agents used networks operated by Mr. Gubarev to start their hacking operation during the 2016 presidential campaign.[Read the report here.]His networks also appear to have been regularly used by cybercriminals and Russian agents to conduct other attacks, such as an assault on Ukraine’s power grid in 2015, the report found.Yet the report stops short of directly linking Mr. Gubarev or his executives to the hacking, as asserted in the dossier. As Anthony Ferrante, the report’s lead author and a former F.B.I. agent, noted in a deposition: “I have no evidence of them actually sitting behind a keyboard.”Mr. Gubarev has insisted that neither he nor his businesses knowingly took part in the Russian hacking. He backed up his denials by filing a defamation lawsuit against BuzzFeed, the first news organization to publish the dossier, which became public in January 2017. The report unsealed Thursday was commissioned by BuzzFeed to fend off Mr. Gubarev’s suit, which was dismissed in December when the court found BuzzFeed’s decision to publish protected under the law.Evan Fray-Witzer, a lawyer for Mr. Gubarev, said that hackers using a client’s servers was hardly unique for a web-hosting company, or any tech company. Mr. Gubarev should not be held responsible for the misuse of his network by others that he neither approved nor knew about, Mr. Fray-Witzer said.“You could say the same thing about Google’s infrastructure and Amazon’s infrastructure — and no one is accusing them of hacking anyone just because hackers used their infrastructure,” he said.The report was released after months of legal wrangling by Mr. Gubarev’s lawyers, who strenuously fought to keep it under wraps, arguing that it was one-sided and would unfairly tar their client. The New York Times, acting independently of BuzzFeed and Mr. Gubarev, asked the court in October to unseal all of the evidence in the case.For all of its details of Russia’s hacking, the report is unlikely to settle the questions that linger around the dossier more than two years after it became public. But for those who believe the president’s loyalties are with Moscow, the report’s suggestions of a link between Mr. Gubarev and Russian hacking is likely to spur new demands for renewed investigations, even as Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, appears to be wrapping up his investigation.The dossier is made up of a series of reports compiled in the summer and fall of 2016 by Christopher Steele, a former British spy who runs a firm that conducts investigations for businesses and other clients. The work was done at the behest of President Trump’s political rivals, a fact that Mr. Trump and his allies have seized on in an effort to undermine the Russia inquiry by falsely claiming that it began because of the dossier.Parts of the dossier have proved prescient. Its main assertion — that the Russian government was working to get Mr. Trump elected — was hardly an established fact when it was first laid out by Mr. Steele in June 2016. But it has since been backed up by the United States’ own intelligence agencies — and Mr. Mueller’s investigation. The dossier’s talk of Russian efforts to cultivate some people in Mr. Trump’s orbit was similarly unknown when first detailed in one of Mr. Steele’s reports, but it has proved broadly accurate as well.Other parts of the dossier remain unsubstantiated, or nearly impossible to verify, such as its most salacious charge: that the Russians have a video of Mr. Trump cavorting with prostitutes in a Moscow hotel in 2013. At least one accusation — that Michael D. Cohen, Mr. Trump’s former personal lawyer and fixer, met in 2016 with Russian officials in Prague — now looks false after Mr. Cohen, who has turned sharply against Mr. Trump, denied last month during congressional testimony ever visiting Prague.The report commissioned by BuzzFeed to investigate the dossier did not set out to prove any of those accusations. It was done by FTI Consulting, a Washington-based firm, and focused solely on the accusations against Mr. Gubarev. It relied largely on analyzing internet traffic and other clues, and on digging through public records to glean insight into Mr. Gubarev’s holding company, XBT, and its many affiliates, including Webzilla. Both XBT and Webzilla were named in the dossier as being used for the hacking.While the report found no direct evidence of a direct link to the Russian hackers, it did conclude that Mr. Gubarev’s web-hosting services are rife with lawlessness. His clients routinely pirate copyrighted material and spread malware, the report found, and his executives appear unconcerned with stopping them or helping authorities track them down.Mr. Gubarev’s “companies have provided gateways to the internet for cybercriminals and Russian state-sponsored actors to launch and control large scale malware campaigns over the past decade,” the report concluded. “Gubarev and other XBT executives do not appear to actively prevent cybercriminals from using their infrastructure.”The evidence cited by the report included the use of I.P. addresses — the numbered codes that differentiate individual internet connections — run by an XBT subsidiary, Root S.A., by Russian hackers from two groups tied to the country’s intelligence services, Fancy Bear and Cozy Bear. The investigators hired by BuzzFeed also found that at least one of the fake links used to trick John D. Podesta, the chairman of Hillary Clinton’s 2016 presidential campaign, into giving up his email password to hackers was traced back to an I.P. address run by Root S.A.The report also detailed evidence that it said suggested Mr. Gubarev’s companies were used in other cybercrimes traced to Russian hackers. One was a sophisticated Russian cyberfraud operation known as the Methbot scheme. It used bots — computer programs that pretend to be people — to steal hundreds of millions of dollars.During the three months the scheme was running in 2016, roughly three-quarters of the internet traffic flowing through two web-hosting companies owned by Mr. Gubarev — Servers.com and WZ Communications — was dedicated to the scheme, the report said.Mr. Fray-Witzer, the lawyer, said Mr. Gubarev’s companies did not make a habit of prying into the web traffic of its clients, and could not have known what its servers were being used for. But, he added, Servers.com and WZ Communications shut off internet access for those behind the Methbot scheme as soon as they found out about it, and saved all of the hard drives for any investigators who wanted to examine them — none have.Asked about the numerous lawsuits that have claimed that Mr. Gubarev’s companies were used to trade in copyrighted material, Mr. Fray-Witzer offered the same argument: Web-hosting companies are not typically held responsible for the traffic that flows through their servers, and Mr. Gubarev should not be held to a different standard.In any case, Mr. Fray-Witzer said, the dossier accused Mr. Gubarev “directly of having been involved in the hacking of the D.N.C.,” not of running networks used by thieves and criminals.“Because they couldn’t prove the allegations that they actually made about our client,” he continued, “they pivoted to say, ‘Well, your infrastructure was used from time to time to do bad things.’”Follow Matthew Rosenberg on Twitter: @AllMattNYT.Gabriel J.X. Dance contributed reporting from New York.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.

Supported byWord of the DayBy The Learning Network: steal or make off with belongings of others_________The word pilfer has appeared in 56 articles on NYTimes.com in the past year, including on Jan. 25 in “Huge Trove of Leaked Russian Documents Is Published by Transparency Advocates” by Scott Shane:A group of transparency advocates on Friday posted a mammoth collection of hacked and leaked documents from inside Russia, a release widely viewed as a sort of symbolic counterstrike against Russia’s dissemination of hacked emails to influence the American presidential election in 2016.… Russian and Eastern European hackers have for many years been among the world’s most active, many operating, initially, from a criminal underground in search of profit. But over the last decade, Russian intelligence agencies have become adept at using cyberintrusions to pilfer documents abroad as part of intelligence gathering and to leak for political purposes._________The Word of the Day and the quiz question have been provided by Vocabulary.com. Learn more and see usage examples across a range of subjects in the Vocabulary.com Dictionary.

Supported byBy Scott ShaneBALTIMORE — In a case that exposed the government’s embarrassing failure to secure its secrets, a 54-year-old former National Security Agency contractor pleaded guilty on Thursday to taking classified documents home in a deal likely to put him in prison for nine years.Harold T. Martin III, who worked in the N.S.A.’s Tailored Access Operations hacking unit, admitted his guilt more than two years after his arrest in what may be the biggest breach of classified information in history. F.B.I. agents who swarmed his modest home south of Baltimore in 2016 found stacks of documents and electronic storage devices stashed in his car, his home and even a garden shed.But investigators never found proof that Mr. Martin, who was working on a doctorate in information systems at the time of his arrest, had shared the stolen secrets with anyone else, though there is evidence he may have considered doing so.Wearing a gray jail jersey with white stripes and a neatly trimmed beard, Mr. Martin stood and answered the judge’s questions in a clear, calm voice. “It’s time we closed this Pandora’s box,” the defendant said at one point, his most extensive statement in court.Mr. Martin pleaded guilty to one count of willful retention of defense information. Judge Richard D. Bennett said he would approve and impose the prescribed sentence, which was negotiated between prosecutors and defense lawyers. Sentencing was set for July.His lawyers, James Wyda and Deborah Boardman, have argued that he was simply an eccentric hoarder who started taking work home and could not stop. “His actions were the product of mental illness. Not treason,” his lawyers said in a statement. They called him a “patriot” and said he was “deeply remorseful.”In an interview, Robert K. Hur, the United States attorney for Maryland, called the scale of the information taken by Mr. Martin “breathtaking in its scope” and said the nine-year sentence would be the longest ever imposed for illegal retention of secrets.Poring over the piles of material they found in their searches, investigators were astonished to discover that for 20 years, Mr. Martin, known as Hal, had been carrying classified material out of the N.S.A. and other security agencies where he had worked. At the time of his arrest, he was working for Booz Allen Hamilton — the same intelligence contractor that had employed Edward Snowden, who flew to Hong Kong in 2013 and gave journalists a large trove of N.S.A. documents.Along with the Snowden and Martin cases, another N.S.A. worker, Nghia Pho, was sentenced in September to five and a half years in prison after taking home secret material describing the agency’s hacking tools. Intelligence officials believe the tools and related documents were then stolen from Mr. Pho’s home computer by Russian hackers. A young N.S.A. linguist named Reality Winner was sentenced last August to five years and three months for leaking a classified document on Russian election hacking to The Intercept, an online publication.But perhaps the most damaging leak of all was discovered around the time of Mr. Martin’s arrest in August 2016, when a mysterious group calling itself the Shadow Brokers announced an online auction of a long list of software exploits the N.S.A. used to break into foreign computer networks. The Shadow Brokers eventually made the stolen cyberweapons public, and other countries and criminal groups began using them for hacking and theft around the world.F.B.I. investigators focused on Mr. Martin after getting a tip from Kaspersky Lab, a Russian cybersecurity company. Two Kaspersky employees had gotten cryptic messages from Mr. Martin — calling himself “HAL999999999” — via Twitter that seemed to be offering secrets, as Politico first reported in January. The assistance was a bit ironic, because American intelligence officials have sometimes accused Kaspersky of being too close to Russian intelligence, charges the company denies.“Shelf life, three weeks,” Mr. Martin wrote in one of his cryptic texts, seeming to suggest that he was offering material on a time-limited basis. But shortly after sending the messages, he blocked on Twitter the two Kaspersky employees he had just contacted, so they could not respond.The F.B.I. quickly linked the HAL999999999 Twitter account to Mr. Martin, and agents were soon searching his modest house in Glen Burnie, a Baltimore suburb. They discovered a staggering total of 50 terabytes of government data, a virtual library’s worth, much of it classified at a high level.Investigators at first believed Mr. Martin might be the Shadow Brokers, who had posted their first announcement of their auction of N.S.A. hacking tools a half-hour after Mr. Martin blocked the two Kaspersky workers on Twitter. They found the same N.S.A. exploits in Mr. Martin’s vast collection of stolen material.But the Shadow Brokers continued to post taunting manifestoes and stolen software for months after Mr. Martin was jailed. It appears that the investigators eventually concluded that Mr. Martin was not the source of the Shadow Brokers’ material, at least not wittingly.Government officials have never charged anyone in the Shadow Brokers breach, and speculation has centered on two possible perpetrators: Russian intelligence or disgruntled N.S.A. insiders. If F.B.I. and N.S.A. security officers have made progress in solving the case, they have not said anything about it in public.According to court filings, Mr. Martin first agreed to plead guilty in January 2018. But negotiations subsequently fell apart, and the plea came more than a year after it was first expected. Mr. Martin has been incarcerated since his arrest, and the two and a half years he has served will be counted toward his sentence.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.

Sophisticated surveillance, once the domain of world powers, is increasingly available on the private market. Smaller countries are seizing on the tools — sometimes for darker purposes.NSO, a private company based in Herzliya, Israel, has hired former government hackers to ply their trades for foreign governments.CreditCreditCorinna Kern for The New York TimesSupported byBy Mark Mazzetti, Adam Goldman, Ronen Bergman and Nicole PerlrothThe man in charge of Saudi Arabia’s ruthless campaign to stifle dissent went searching for ways to spy on people he saw as threats to the kingdom. He knew where to go: a secretive Israeli company offering technology developed by former intelligence operatives.It was late 2017 and Saud al-Qahtani — then a top adviser to Saudi Arabia’s powerful crown prince — was tracking Saudi dissidents around the world, part of his extensive surveillance efforts that ultimately led to the killing of the journalist Jamal Khashoggi. In messages exchanged with employees from the company, NSO Group, Mr. al-Qahtani spoke of grand plans to use its surveillance tools throughout the Middle East and Europe, like Turkey and Qatar or France and Britain.The Saudi government’s reliance on a firm from Israel, an adversary for decades, offers a glimpse of a new age of digital warfare governed by few rules and of a growing economy, now valued at $12 billion, of spies for hire.Today even the smallest countries can buy digital espionage services, enabling them to conduct sophisticated operations like electronic eavesdropping or influence campaigns that were once the preserve of major powers like the United States and Russia. Corporations that want to scrutinize competitors’ secrets, or a wealthy individual with a beef against a rival, can also command intelligence operations for a price, akin to purchasing off-the-shelf elements of the National Security Agency or the Mossad.[For more stories about the changing nature of warfare, sign up for the weekly At War newsletter.]NSO and a competitor, the Emirati firm DarkMatter, exemplify the proliferation of privatized spying. A monthslong examination by The New York Times, based on interviews with current and former hackers for governments and private companies and others as well as a review of documents, uncovered secret skirmishes in this burgeoning world of digital combat.The firms have enabled governments not only to hack criminal elements like terrorist groups and drug cartels but also in some cases to act on darker impulses, targeting activists and journalists. Hackers trained by United States spy agencies caught American businesspeople and human rights workers in their net. Cybermercenaries working for DarkMatter turned a prosaic household item, a baby monitor, into a spy device.The F.B.I. is investigating current and former American employees of DarkMatter for possible cybercrimes, according to four people familiar with the investigation. The inquiry intensified after a former N.S.A. hacker working for the company grew concerned about its activities and contacted the F.B.I., Reuters reported.NSO and DarkMatter also compete fiercely with each other, paying handsomely to lure top hacking talent from Israel, the United States and other countries, and sometimes pilfering recruits from each other, The Times found.The Middle East is the epicenter of this new era of privatized spying. Besides DarkMatter and NSO, there is Black Cube, a private company run by former Mossad and Israeli military intelligence operatives that gained notoriety after Harvey Weinstein, the disgraced Hollywood mogul, hired it to dig up dirt on his accusers. Psy-Group, an Israeli company specializing in social media manipulation, worked for Russian oligarchs and in 2016 pitched the Trump campaign on a plan to build an online army of bots and avatars to swing Republican delegate votes.Last year, a wealthy American businessman, Elliott Broidy, sued the government of Qatar and a New York firm run by a former C.I.A. officer, Global Risk Advisors, for what he said was a sophisticated breach of his company that led to thousands of his emails spilling into public. Mr. Broidy said that the operation was motivated by hard-nosed geopolitics: At the beginning of the Trump administration, he had pushed the White House to adopt anti-Qatar policies at the same time his firm was poised to receive hundreds of millions of dollars in contracts from the United Arab Emirates, the archrival to Qatar.A judge dismissed Mr. Broidy’s lawsuit, but suspicions have grown that Qatar had a hand in other operations, including the hacking and leaking of the emails of Yousef al-Otaiba, the influential Emirati ambassador in Washington.The rapid expansion of this global high-tech battleground, where armies of cybermercenaries clash, has prompted warnings of a dangerous and chaotic future.“Even the smallest country, on a very low budget, can have an offensive capability,” or initiate online attacks against adversaries, said Robert Johnston, founder of the cybersecurity firm Adlumin and a key investigator on Russia’s 2016 hacking of the Democratic National Committee. “Qatar and U.A.E. are going after each other, and that war is getting very, very bloody.“The barriers to entry in this space are getting lower and lower.”Before NSO helped the Saudi government track its adversaries outside the kingdom, and helped the Mexican government hunt drug kingpins, and earned hundreds of millions of dollars working for dozens of countries on six continents, the company consisted of two high school friends in northern Israel with one relatively mundane idea.Using technology developed by graduates of Intelligence Unit 8200 — Israel’s equivalent of the N.S.A.— Shalev Hulio and Omri Lavie started a company in 2008 that allowed cellphone firms to gain remote access to their customers’ devices to perform maintenance.Word spread to Western spy services, whose operatives spotted an opportunity. At the time, American and European officials were warning that Apple, Facebook, Google and other tech giants were developing technologies that allowed criminals and terrorists to communicate through encrypted channels indecipherable to intelligence and law enforcement agencies. They called the phenomenon “going dark.”Mr. Hulio and Mr. Lavie offered a way to circumvent this problem by hacking the end points of the communications — the phones themselves — after the data were decrypted.By 2011, NSO had developed its first prototype, a mobile surveillance tool the company called Pegasus. Like its namesake, the Greek mythological winged horse, NSO’s tool could do something seemingly impossible: collect vast amounts of previously inaccessible data from smartphones in the air without leaving a trace — including phone calls, texts, emails, contacts, location and any data transmitted over apps like Facebook, WhatsApp and Skype.“Once these companies invade your phone, they own it. You’re just carrying it around,” Avi Rosen of Kaymera Technologies, an Israeli cyberdefense company, said of NSO and its competitors.The company soon had its first client for Pegasus: the government of Mexico, which was engaged in a crackdown on drug cartels. By 2013, NSO had installed Pegasus at three Mexican agencies, according to emails obtained by The Times. The emails estimated that, altogether, the firm had sold the Mexican government $15 million worth of hardware and software. Mexico was paying the firm some $77 million to track a wide array of targets’ every move and swipe of their phone.NSO products were important to Mexico’s war against the cartels, according to four people familiar with how the Mexican government used Pegasus, speaking on the condition of anonymity to discuss intelligence matters. Mexican officials have credited Pegasus as instrumental in helping track and capture El Chapo, the famed drug kingpin who was convicted last month in New York and sentenced to life in a maximum-security prison.Soon enough, NSO was selling to governments throughout the world, with the company claiming clients on every continent except Antarctica. NSO products — particularly Pegasus — helped break up terrorist cells and aided investigations into organized crime and child abduction, European intelligence and law enforcement officials said in interviews.NSO’s first client, the Mexican government, was also using the hacking tools for darker purposes — as part of a broader government and industry surveillance effort. The government used NSO products to track at least two dozen journalists, government critics, international investigators looking into the unsolved disappearance of 43 students, even backers of a soda tax, according to Times investigations and research by Citizen Lab, part of the University of Toronto.Those targets were subjected to a stream of harassing text messages that contained malware. Some messages warned that their spouses were having affairs, others that a relative had passed away. In one case, when government officials were not able to infiltrate the phone of a journalist, they targeted her 16-year-old son’s.Though NSO says it sells its services for criminal and antiterrorism investigations, none of the Mexicans known to have been targeted were suspected in criminal or terrorism investigations.“NSO technology has helped stop vicious crimes and deadly terrorist attacks around the world,” the company said in a statement. “We do not tolerate misuse of our products and we regularly vet and review our contracts to ensure they are not being used for anything other than the prevention or investigation of terrorism and crime.”The company has established an ethics committee, which decides whether it can sell its spyware to countries based on their human rights records as reported by global organizations like the World Bank’s human capital index, and other indicators. NSO would not sell to Turkey, for example, because of its poor record on human rights, current and former employees said.But on the World Bank index, Turkey ranks higher than Mexico and Saudi Arabia, both NSO clients. A spokesman for Israel’s Ministry of Defense, which needs to authorize any contract that NSO wins from a foreign government, declined to answer questions about the company.A lawsuit alleged  last year that in the months before his death, Saudi Arabia used NSO products to spy on Mr. Khashoggi, the Washington Post columnist strangled and dismembered in October by Saudi operatives inside the kingdom’s consulate in Istanbul. NSO denies the accusation. Several of Mr. Khashoggi’s closest contacts were targets of NSO hacking tools, Citizen Lab reported. Without access to Mr. Khashoggi’s devices, researchers have not confirmed whether he was a direct target of NSO surveillance.Even in cases of blatant abuse, NSO continued to renew contracts with its government clients. In 2013, for instance, NSO inked its first deal with the United Arab Emirates. Within a year, the Emirati government was caught installing NSO spyware on the mobile phone of Ahmed Mansoor, a prominent human rights activist.After receiving an onslaught of text messages containing links, Mr. Mansoor — a frequent target of Emirati surveillance — grew suspicious and passed the texts to security researchers, who determined the links were NSO lures that exploited vulnerabilities in Apple software to take over Mr. Mansoor’s phone. It was, researchers said, the most sophisticated spyware they had ever uncovered on a mobile device.The discovery forced Apple to release an emergency patch. But by then, Mr. Mansoor had already been fired from his job, had his passport confiscated, his car stolen, his email hacked, his location tracked, his bank account emptied of $140,000, and was beaten by strangers twice in the same week.“You start to believe your every move is watched. Your family starts to panic,” he said in an interview before he was arrested in 2017. “I have to live with that.”Even after the U.A.E. was caught spying on Mr. Mansoor, leaked invoices showed that NSO continued to sell the Emiratis millions of dollars’ worth of spyware and services. As for Mr. Mansoor, he was sentenced to 10 years in prison for damaging national unity and is being held in solitary confinement, where his health is deteriorating.A flurry of news reports followed about countries using NSO products to spy on their citizens, prompting the company to temporarily rebrand itself “Q,” after James Bond’s gadget guru.Despite the bad news coverage, NSO’s value continued to skyrocket.Francisco Partners, a private equity firm, purchased a 70 percent stake in NSO for $130 million in 2013. Last month, NSO’s co-founders raised enough money to buy back a majority stake in NSO at a valuation of just under $1 billion. The London private equity firm Novalpina Capital backed the deal — making its major investors, including the Oregon state employees’ pension fund and Alaska’s sovereign wealth fund, part owners of NSO, according to public records.The proliferation of companies trying to replicate NSO’s success and compete in an estimated $12 billion market for so-called lawful intercept spyware has set off a fierce competition to hire American, Israeli and Russian veterans of the world’s most sophisticated intelligence agencies — and for the companies to poach talent from one another.In late 2017, NSO executives grew concerned about a spate of resignations. Private detectives hired to investigate soon found themselves on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus, tailing a group of former NSO employees — all veterans of Israel’s Intelligence Unit 8200 — going back and forth to work at a research facility.The building was owned by a company affiliated with DarkMatter, an Emirati firm that had quietly hired the Israelis to develop technologies for the U.A.E. to conduct cyberoperations against perceived enemies at home and abroad.DarkMatter also has offices inside a gleaming tower on the highway connecting Abu Dhabi to Dubai, the same building that houses the U.A.E.’s Signals Intelligence Agency, the Emirates’ version of the N.S.A.This is not by accident. DarkMatter is effectively an arm of the state that has worked directly with Emirati intelligence operatives on numerous missions such as hacking government ministries in Turkey, Qatar and Iran and spying on dissidents inside the Emirates.DarkMatter has origins in another company, an American firm called CyberPoint that years ago won contracts from the U.A.E. to help protect the Emirates from computer attacks. CyberPoint obtained a license from the American government to work for the Emiratis, a necessary step intended to regulate the export of military and intelligence services. Many of the company’s employees had worked on highly classified projects for the N.S.A. and other American intelligence agencies.But the Emiratis had outsize ambitions and repeatedly pushed CyberPoint employees to exceed the boundaries of the company’s American license. CyberPoint rebuffed requests by Emirati intelligence operatives to try to crack encryption codes and to hack websites housed on American servers — operations that would have run afoul of American law.So in 2015 the Emiratis founded DarkMatter — forming a company not bound by United States law — and lured at least a half-dozen American employees of CyberPoint to join. Marc Baier, a former official with the N.S.A. unit that carries out advanced offensive cyberoperations, became one of the firm’s top executives.DarkMatter employed several other former N.S.A. and C.I.A. officers, according to a roster of employees obtained by The Times, some making salaries of hundreds of thousands of dollars a year.“The assumption used to be that when you left the N.S.A., you’d never do that kind of offensive work again. Now, clearly there is a market for it,” said Mr. Johnston, the security expert. He worked in the military’s Cyber Command, which works closely with the N.S.A., while serving in the Marines.“The N.S.A. should consider it their responsibility to ensure that the hacking techniques taught to employees cannot be used against the United States,” he said.The company did not respond to a request to comment, nor did a spokesman for the Emirati government. Asked whether the ministry had given a license for the former Israeli intelligence operatives working for DarkMatter, a spokesman for the Israeli Ministry of Defense declined to comment. A lawyer for Mr. Baier also declined to comment.Current and former employees of the spy agency have a lifelong obligation to protect the United States’ secrets, said Greg Julian, a spokesman for the N.S.A. They are also required to report employment or representation with foreign governments for two years after they leave the agency, he said.Besides its breaches of foreign government ministries, DarkMatter also broke into Gmail, Yahoo and Hotmail accounts, according to former employees. DarkMatter operatives posed as family and friends of the people they targeted to lure them into opening emails that contained malware.Former employees said that DarkMatter targeted Mr. Mansoor, hacking his child’s baby monitor to eavesdrop on his family. In another operation, the company’s operatives pursued Rori Donaghy, a British activist critical of the Emirati government and its human rights record, who had also been a target of NSO spyware. DarkMatter also targeted Citizen Lab, the Canadian research organization, a former employee said.DarkMatter told the employees that spying on American citizens would be off limits, but it proved to be an empty pledge.In one operation, not previously reported, a DarkMatter subsidiary began an expansive effort to intercept cellular communications in Qatar, occasionally catching communications of Americans in the surveillance net in late 2015. One American working on the project said he raised concerns with his superiors, including a former C.I.A. officer in charge of the effort. The American, along with another, was pulled off the project and asked to sign a nondisclosure agreement.In repeated instances, DarkMatter collected information about Americans, a second former employee said. Most of those cases involved Americans who worked for foreign organizations — including human rights groups — that DarkMatter targeted because they had been critical of the Emirati government, the former employee said.DarkMatter operatives would occasionally collect passport information, applications or résumés belonging to Americans who applied to work at these organizations. One former employee said that the collection was accidental, and the records were expunged from the company’s databases.In 2017, a former N.S.A. hacker began providing F.B.I. agents with information about the company’s activities, according to the Reuters report. Foreign Policy first reported the F.B.I. investigation.The informant, Lori Stroud, said she had become concerned about the company’s surveillance of Americans. She later left the firm along with several other Americans because they could not be sure that DarkMatter was not deliberately targeting citizens. Soon, F.B.I. agents began stopping American employees at airports as they entered the United States and questioned them about DarkMatter’s operations, according to former company employees.The Justice Department’s case, run by prosecutors in Washington, focuses on internet fraud and the possibly illegal transfer of spying technology to a foreign country.But the prosecutors face headwinds, including diplomatic concerns about jeopardizing the United States’ relationship with the U.A.E. — an influential country that has developed close ties to the Trump administration — and worries about how pursuing the case could expose embarrassing details about the extent of the cooperation between DarkMatter and American intelligence agencies.And there is the reality that American laws governing this new age of digital warfare are murky, outdated, and ill-equipped to address rapid technological advances. The rules governing what American intelligence and military personnel can and cannot provide to foreign governments were meant to keep a leash on 20th-century warfare — selling missiles or planes overseas or training foreign forces on Army tactics.But they do not address hacking skills that can be honed in front of a laptop, or at the world’s most advanced intelligence agencies, and sold to the highest bidder.“The worst part of it is the weapons are easier to get,” said Brian Bartholomew, the principal security researcher at Kaspersky Lab, a digital security company.“You’ve got a lot of people entering the arena that are new and don’t play by the same rules,” he said. “It’s like putting a military-grade weapon in the hands of someone off the street.”An earlier version of this article misattributed the source of a valuation for the market of so-called lawful intercept spyware. The $12 billion market estimate cited by Moody’s originated from the company NSO, not Moody’s.Scott Shane contributed reporting.

Supported by“Even the smallest country, on a very low budget, can have an offensive capability.”ROBERT JOHNSTON, founder of the cybersecurity firm Adlumin and a key investigator on Russia’s 2016 hacking of the Democratic National Committee, on the proliferation of privatized spies for digital warfare.

Supported byThe invasion of hucksters has reached the Federal Reserve.By Paul KrugmanOpinion ColumnistIt’s no secret that Donald Trump has appointed a lot of partisan, unqualified hacks to key policy positions. A few months ago my colleague Gail Collins asked readers to help her select Trump’s worst cabinet member. It was a hard choice, because there were so many qualified applicants.The winner, by the way, was Wilbur Ross, the commerce secretary. That looks like an even better call now: Ross’s department has reportedly prepared a report declaring that imports of European cars threaten U.S. national security. This is both ludicrous and dangerous. It gives Trump the right to start a new phase in his trade war that would inflict severe economic damage while alienating our allies — and, as a result, undermine national security.Until recently, however, one agency had seemed immune to the continuing hack invasion: the Federal Reserve, the single institution most crucial to economic policymaking. Trump’s Fed nominees, have, by and large, been sensible, respected economists. But that all changed last week, when Trump said he planned to nominate Stephen Moore for the Fed’s Board of Governors.Moore is manifestly, flamboyantly unqualified for the position. But there’s a story here that goes deeper than Moore, or even Trump; it’s about the whole G.O.P.’s preference for hucksters over experts, even partisan experts.About Moore: It goes almost without saying that he has been wrong about everything. I don’t mean the occasional bad call, which all of us make. I mean a track record that includes predicting that George W. Bush’s policies would produce a magnificent boom, Barack Obama’s policies would lead to runaway inflation, tax cuts in Kansas would produce a “near immediate” boost to the state’s economy, and much more. And, of course, never an acknowledgment of error or reflection on why he got it wrong.[For an even deeper look at what’s on Paul Krugman’s mind, sign up for his weekly newsletter.]Beyond that, Moore has a problem with facts. After printing a Moore op-ed in which all the key numbers were wrong, one editor vowed never to publish the man’s work again. And a blizzard of factual errors is standard practice in his writing and speaking. It’s actually hard to find cases where Moore got a fact right.Yet Moore isn’t some random guy who caught Trump’s eye. He has long been a prominent figure in the conservative movement: a writer for the Wall Street Journal editorial page, chief economist of the Heritage Foundation, a fixture on the right-wing lecture circuit. Why?You might say that the G.O.P. values partisan loyalty above professional competence. But that’s only a partial explanation, because there are plenty of conservative economists with solid professional credentials — and some of them are pretty naked in their partisanship, too. Thus, a who’s who of well-known conservative economists rushed to endorse the Trump administration’s outlandish claims about the benefits from its tax cut, claims they knew full well were unreasonable.Nor has their partisanship been restrained and polite. Many of us are still mourning the death of Alan Krueger, the Princeton economist best known for research — since vindicated by many other studies — showing that increases in the minimum wage don’t usually seem to reduce employment. Well, the Nobel-winning conservative economist James Buchanan denounced those pursuing that line of research as “a bevy of camp-following whores.”So conservatives could, if they wanted, turn for advice to highly partisan economists with at least some idea of what they’re doing. Yet these economists, despite what often seem like pathetic attempts to curry favor with politicians, are routinely passed over for key positions, which go to almost surreally unqualified figures like Moore or Larry Kudlow, the Trump administration’s chief economist.Many people have described the Trump administration as a kakistocracy — rule by the worst — which it is. But it’s also a hackistocracy — rule by the ignorant and incompetent. And in this Trump is just following standard G.O.P. practice.Why do hacks rule on the right? It may simply be that a party of apparatchiks feels uncomfortable with people who have any real expertise or independent reputation, no matter how loyal they may seem. After all, you never know when they might take a stand on principle.In any case, there will eventually be a price to pay. True, there is, wrote Adam Smith, “a great deal of ruin in a nation.” America isn’t just an immensely powerful, wealthy, technologically advanced, peaceful country. We’re also a nation with a long tradition of dedicated public service.Even now — as I can attest from personal interactions — a great majority of those working for the Treasury Department, the State Department and so on are competent, hard-working people trying to do the best they can for their country.But as top jobs systematically go to hacks, there is an inevitable process of corrosion. We’re already seeing a degradation of the way our government responds to things like natural disasters. Well, there will be more and bigger disasters ahead. And the people in charge of dealing with those disasters will be the worst of the worst.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Paul Krugman has been an Opinion columnist since 2000 and is also a Distinguished Professor at the City University of New York Graduate Center. He won the 2008 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences for his work on international trade and economic geography.  @PaulKrugman 

Supported byBy Nicole PerlrothSAN FRANCISCO — Ten years ago, Google was hacked by the Chinese military in one of the most startling cyberattacks on an American company by government-affiliated agents.This week, Chronicle, a security start-up owned by Google’s parent company, Alphabet, plans to bring some of what it learned from that incident to other companies through a widely anticipated new product called Backstory.The idea, company executives said, is simple: Backstory will make Alphabet’s vast storage, indexing and search abilities available to other companies, allowing them to search through giant volumes of data, going years back, to trace the back story of a malicious attack.Chronicle is hardly the only company doing this. Dozens of companies promise so-called big data threat intelligence and storage. But many of their customers can’t afford to pay to search through huge amounts of information.Chronicle will charge customers by their number of employees.The hack on Google, called Operation Aurora, was historic for an unusual reason: It was the first time a Chinese government hacking victim confronted its attacker.Inside the company, Sergey Brin, one of Google’s co-founders, made it his personal mission to make sure something like Aurora never happened again. Google, known for its motto “Don’t Be Evil,” had a new motto about its cybersecurity: “Never again.”Google poached cyberexperts from the National Security Agency and Silicon Valley. It built a threat analysis group on a par with those at the top intelligence agencies and designed a new security infrastructure. It also created a new team, called Google Project Zero, to hunt for critical security flaws in technology outside Google.“When the Chinese attacked in 2010, that was an entire wake-up call for us; our entire attitude changed,” said Eric Schmidt, a member of Alphabet’s board of directors who was chief executive of Google at the time of incident, in an interview.Google turned the company’s storage, search and computational power into a security weapon of sorts. Whenever something malicious appeared on the internet, Google could search its entire network — years back — in minutes to see if it had ever touched its systems.For many companies, that is a remarkably difficult task. The most popular services for storing that kind of security data are companies, like Splunk, that charge by the amount of data indexed.Inside Alphabet’s X, the company’s “moonshot factory” where Chronicle got its start, are all sorts of futuristic gadgets, from electricity-generating kites to autonomous delivery drones. By comparison, what Chronicle is doing is notably practical.Chronicle was founded by Mike Wiacek, who started Google’s threat analysis group after studying threats at the N.S.A., and Stephen Gillett, the former chief information officer at Starbucks and chief operating officer at Symantec.They first started discussing the company’s plans publicly more than a year ago, worrying start-ups doing similar work. But Mr. Wiacek and Mr. Gillett said they were interested in collaborating with other companies.Mr. Wiacek said others inside Alphabet’s X headquarters often asked him what he was doing there. “This is a moonshot, I tell them,” he said. “Just because it has an air of practicality about it, and doesn’t sound like science fiction, makes it no less audacious.”Follow Nicole Perlroth on Twitter: @nicoleperlroth

Supported byBy Zolan Kanno-YoungsWASHINGTON — Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, said on Monday that cyberthreats against the United States were a national security crisis that she described as her top priority — not the situation for which President Trump last month declared a national emergency.“On top of my list of threats, that many of you can guess, the word ‘cyber’ is circled, highlighted and underlined,” Ms. Nielsen said in a speech outlining her department’s focus in the coming year. “The cyberdomain is a target, a weapon and a threat vector all at the same time.”Mr. Trump has called the increasing flow of immigrants to the southern border one of the most urgent national security issues threatening the United States. Last week, issuing his first veto against legislation that would have blocked him from diverting Defense Department funds to build a border wall, the president described a recent spike in migrants crossing the border as an “invasion.”The Department of Homeland Security oversees customs officers and immigration agents who are on the front lines of the Trump administration’s campaign to close the border to illegal immigration.Ms. Nielsen did dedicate a portion of her speech on Monday to what she called a “humanitarian and security catastrophe” of Central American families traveling to the border. She also noted that the projected number of migrants who may be apprehended at the southern border this month was expected to rise to 100,000, up from 76,000 in February.But mentions of digital threats were dispersed throughout her approximately 35-minute address to an auditorium of various Department of Homeland Security officials.Among global jihadists and transnational criminals, Ms. Nielsen listed “cyberthugs and hackers and resurgent nation-state rivals” as an emerging threat to the United States. She asked two cybersecurity officials who helped safeguard the 2018 elections to stand for a round of applause.Ms. Nielsen also assailed President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and the Kremlin “for a concerted effort to undermine our elections and our democratic process using cyberenabled means.” And she said the average American citizen or company was “no match” for virtual threats from Russia, China, North Korea and Iran.“I am more worried about the ability of bad guys to hijack our networks than their ability to hijack our flights,” Ms. Nielsen said. “I am concerned about them holding our infrastructure hostage, stealing our money and secrets, exploiting children online and even hacking our democracy.”John Cohen, a former acting under secretary for intelligence during the Obama administration, said law enforcement could no longer look at the threats in the digital world and the physical world as separate issues. Extremist groups now circulate videos on the internet to inspire terrorist attacks, and drug traffickers are using the dark web — something Ms. Nielsen also highlighted in her speech.Mr. Cohen said he remained unclear on how Ms. Nielsen proposed combating cybersecurity threats.“There is an incredible amount of talent at D.H.S.,” said Mr. Cohen, also a senior adviser at the agency during the George W. Bush administration. “My concern is that talent and those capabilities are being underutilized, because in the eyes of many at the White House, the sole purpose for D.H.S. is to conduct its immigrant and border security activities.”Ms. Nielsen said the department was focused on increasing collaboration with the private sector, citing a summit meeting held in New York last year for industry and government officials. She said she expected the cooperation between various homeland security agencies to improve when the department consolidates at a former mental hospital next month.She praised the department’s work in defending the integrity of the 2018 midterm elections and said she was confident in her department’s ability to secure the 2020 presidential vote. Ms. Nielsen also said homeland security would continue to pursue prosecutions against foreign entities that hack the American digital infrastructure.“What worries me, though, is not what these threat actors have done,” Ms. Nielsen said, “but what they have the capability to do.”

Supported byHow the Steele dossier’s scenarios look after Michael Cohen’s testimony.By Ross DouthatOpinion ColumnistIn the window of calm between Michael Cohen’s testimony and the allegedly almost-at-hand delivery of Robert Mueller’s report, it’s worth returning for a moment to the document that established the darkest interpretation of all the Russian weirdness swirling around Donald Trump: the intelligence dossier created by Christopher Steele, late of MI6, on behalf of Trump’s political opponents, which brought together the reports and rumors that Steele deemed credible about the then-candidate, now-president’s Russia ties.The Steele dossier made four big claims — or, since all those claims took the form of rumors and raw intelligence, let’s say that it raised four big possibilities. One of them, soon well corroborated, was that Russian intelligence was behind the hacks of the Democratic National Committee and the release of stolen emails through WikiLeaks.The next possibility was that a Russian project to cultivate Trump, supported and directed by Putin, had been going on for many years, and included both offers of “sweetener real estate business deals” (which Trump supposedly declined) and “a regular flow of intelligence from the Kremlin” (which he supposedly accepted).The third possibility was that this relationship dramatically influenced the 2016 campaign. According to Steele’s sources, there was possibly “a well-developed conspiracy of co-operation” between Trump’s campaign and Russian intelligence, managed by Paul Manafort with Michael Cohen playing go-between in Prague, which encompassed the D.N.C. hacking — a crime carried out “with the full knowledge and support of Trump and senior members of his campaign team.”The final possibility, of course, was that Russia had so-called “kompromat” on Trump — above all, the pee tape.[Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]Since its Buzzfeed publication in early 2017, the dossier’s prominence has varied. It’s probably cited more often in the defensive, pro-Trump press, where it’s depicted as discredited gossip that tainted the Russia investigation’s credibility from the start. But Russiagate enthusiasts and would-be honest brokers have also returned to it frequently — and for good reason, since it establishes a bar for Mueller’s investigation that, if cleared, would absolutely deserve to end Trump’s presidency.If the D.N.C. hack took place with Trump’s cooperation as part of a longstanding exchange of favors, then he would be guiltier than Nixon, having participated in a Watergate with a foreign power as the burglar. If Mueller could prove that something like that happened, impeachment would be inevitable, and resignation or removal reasonably likely.But will Mueller prove it? While retaining an official agnosticism, my sense after Cohen’s testimony is that the odds are as low as they’ve been since this whole affair started, and the increasing likelihood is that the Steele dossier was, in fact, as Trump’s defenders have long described it — a narrative primarily grounded in Russian disinformation.That’s because Cohen’s testimony dovetailed with the always-more-plausible narrative in which Trump and his circle weren’t collaborators but fools and wannabes, who might have been willing to play games with spies and hackers, but who mostly just bumbled around haplessly on the sidelines.This is what you can see happening in the Trump Tower Moscow project, so far as I can tell — instead of Putin offering Trump a sweetheart deal, it seems to have involved his fixers trying to get the Russian government’s attention, to no practical end.And it’s also the sense left by Cohen’s testimony that he witnessed Trump taking a call from Roger Stone in the summer of 2016, in which Stone claimed to have just heard from Julian Assange about “a massive dump of emails that would damage Hillary Clinton’s campaign.”This happened at a time when WikiLeaks had already been hinting at an email dump, so Stone was not exactly delivering privileged information. Trump, according to Cohen, responded “to the effect of stating ‘wouldn’t that be great.’ ” This doesn’t seem like how a years-long collaboration with Russian intelligence would unfold.Meanwhile on every other Russia-related front, Cohen — with every reason to knife his former boss — offered dossier-discrediting denials. He never went to Prague to meet with Russian intelligence, as the dossier alleged, never heard anything about kompromat, and never had any direct evidence of Trumpian collusion with the Russians.Is it possible that a real conspiracy was run without the knowledge of the president’s trusted and then-proudly shady fixer? In theory, yes; it could have all happened through figures like Paul Manafort, who we know shared campaign polling data, at least, with a Russian-intelligence-linked figure. But if the dossier’s claim of a years-long Trump-Kremlin entanglement and its claim of Cohen’s direct involvement are both looking implausible or false, then its claims about a sustained Manafort-managed collaboration should be treated extremely skeptically as well.In which case the most likely l’affaire Russe endgame may be a special prosecutor’s report that doesn’t make Trump look good or decent or moral, but which implicitly exonerates him of conspiring with the Russians, and makes a lot of Mueller watchers extremely unhappy in the process.On the eve of Muellerdämmerung, that’s what this agnostic very cautiously expects.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTOpinion) and Instagram, join the Facebook political discussion group, Voting While Female.An earlier version of a picture caption with this article misstated the day Michael Cohen appeared before the House committee. It was Wednesday, not Thursday.Ross Douthat has been an Opinion columnist for The Times since 2009. He is the author of several books, most recently, “To Change the Church: Pope Francis and the Future of Catholicism.”
You can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT You can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT 

Supported byDo lawbreaking, lying to the public and colluding with a foreign enemy add up to innocence?By David LeonhardtOpinion ColumnistThis article is part of David Leonhardt’s newsletter. You can sign up here to receive it each weekday.Yes, I know you’ve heard this before, but many observers think it’s finally true: The Mueller report seems to be coming soon. I want to step back this morning and review what Robert’s Mueller investigation (and others) have already uncovered.The brief version: So far, there is no clear evidence that the Trump campaign and Russian officials worked together to coordinate campaign strategy. Trump and his defenders have tried to conflate this with innocence. The president’s mantra is “No collusion.”[Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]But that’s both wrong and a brazen lowering of the bar for presidential behavior. Even without any further findings, the Mueller investigation shows that Trump has repeatedly violated his oath of office by lying to the American people, breaking the law, putting his personal interests above the country’s and secretly working with a hostile foreign country. The details:Russia interfered in the 2016 election to help Trump. Russian officials hacked the emails of Democratic officials and created a social media campaign designed to hurt Hillary Clinton and help Trump.Trump campaign officials knew of these foreign efforts and encouraged them. The president’s son did so. As did George Papadopoulos, a campaign adviser. And Trump himself publicly urged Russia to hack Clinton’s emails — on the same day Russian hackers tried to breach her private server for the first time.Trump campaign officials attempted to conceal contacts they had with Russians and other foreign officials. Trump and his associates repeatedly lied to the public and to investigators about their more than 100 contacts — including meetings, phone calls and emails — with Russians during the campaign. Among the examples: Michael Flynn, a campaign aide who became Trump’s national security adviser, lied about phone calls he had with the Russian ambassador to the United States.Campaign officials knew in advance about the WikiLeaks email dumps. Before WikiLeaks released stolen Democratic emails, Roger Stone, a longtime Trump associate, told campaign officials it would happen.Trump was secretly pursuing a business venture in Russia and lied about it. During most of the 2016 campaign, Trump associates worked to build a Trump Tower in Moscow, while publicly denying any such business relationship. Trump’s former lawyer, Michael Cohen, lied to Congress about the talks and was sentenced to three years in prison.Trump directed a subordinate to break the law. During the campaign, Trump directed Cohen to pay hush money to women who claimed to have had affairs with Trump. The secret payments violated campaign finance laws.Trump’s campaign was run by criminals. The Mueller investigation has also uncovered separate financial crimes committed by top campaign officials. Both Paul Manafort, the campaign chairman, and Rick Gates, a Manafort protégé, have been indicted on conspiracy and fraud. Others tied to the campaign, including Papadopoulos, have also received prison sentences.For more:In a Times Op-Ed, James Comey, the former F.B.I. director, writes that he hopes the Mueller report shows that Trump did not hinder the investigation.My newsroom colleagues Larry Buchanan and Karen Yourish have put together a helpful guide to the people implicated in the investigation. FiveThirtyEight’s Amelia Thomson-DeVeaux and Perry Bacon Jr. note that Mueller’s court filings so far amount to a kind of public report.Neal Katyal, a legal expert, has also put together a helpful Twitter thread on the subject. “Don’t focus on the one-line spin. Focus on the facts, judgments, and limitations in the Mueller Report,” he writes.The legal scholar Joyce White Vance notes that the end of the Mueller investigation doesn’t necessarily mean the end of Trump’s legal issues. “Mueller appears to have stayed carefully within his lane, sending cases that strayed from his core mission to US attorneys &amp; DOJ divisions,” she tweeted. “These career prosecutors will work their investigations to a conclusion, even after Mueller closes shop.”And Aaron Blake of The Washington Post outlines what could happen to Mueller’s report once the attorney general has it.If you are not a subscriber to this newsletter, you can subscribe here. You can also join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt • Facebook 

Paul Manafort’s Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dad’s Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back”House Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City Hotline2011: Arab Spring‘Can The President Be Impeached?’ We Answer Your QuestionsCalving Season

Supported byThe many serious crimes that Mueller uncovered, almost by accident, show us that we have to prioritize official corruption.By Tim WuMr. Wu is a law professor who has worked in federal and state government.We are at risk of missing the most important lesson taught by the Mueller investigation. The rampant criminality it revealed suggests the desperate need to thoroughly investigate financial, political and electoral criminality in the United States. With the so-called war on drugs in remission, Mr. Mueller’s work should inspire federal and state officials to make the crimes of swampland and related white-collar and cyber criminality the next priority for the nation’s most talented prosecutors. For what Mr. Mueller really found, above all, was abundant evidence of crimes against democracy itself.Consider that in just 22 months, Mr. Mueller’s small team of lawyers and investigators indicted 34 people (and that’s not counting the referrals) — many of them serious criminals who were largely off the radar otherwise. Without the Mueller investigation, Paul Manafort might well still be buying carpets instead of sitting in solitary confinement; Michael Cohen might still be shaking down corporations for cash; Richard Pinedo still selling stolen identities to online buyers; and Rick Gates and Sam Patten still selling access to hostile foreign powers.This group of criminals were caught by happenstance. They had the misfortune of having some association with Donald Trump and the further coincidence of a special counsel appointment. That prompts a question: Just how many other Manaforts, Cohens and Gateses are still operating out there?Do we really imagine that Mr. Manafort and Mr. Gates are the only well-connected people in Washington who have had the idea of taking millions from foreign governments in exchange for promises of influence while seeking to conceal these payments? Does it seem likely that the Russians are the only ones who will ever try to hack an election by trolling, phishing and the intentional dissemination of defamatory propaganda? And what are the odds that Mr. Cohen is the only man in New York guilty of major tax evasion and making major in-kind contributions to a candidate without reporting them? The real bottom line of the Mueller report is that the future of law enforcement will not be found on street corners. It will be along the K Street corridor, the offices of unsavory real estate developers and the darkest alleys of the information superhighway.While the Manafort-Gates indictments suggest diving into the underside of lobbying, the electoral tampering charges directed at the Russian troll farms and hackers suggest newer and even more pressing priorities. Mr. Mueller’s indictments were limited to Russian efforts to influence the 2016 presidential election. But the United States has plenty of domestic trolls and malicious hackers, too. Some of them threaten journalists; others have already used millions of stolen identities to attack federal agencies with fake opinions. To say this is an area of national vulnerability is a gross understatement.There is far more to the agenda suggested by the Mueller probe than just putting some bad guys in jail. What the indicted targets threatened were key pillars of democracy itself, including an uncorrupted electoral process, a government free from secret foreign influence and the credibility of the main channels of speech. It is the constitutional duty of law enforcement to protect the basic institutions of democracy, but other priorities have taken precedence.Such as the so-called war on drugs. Since the 1970s, when President Richard Nixon announced it, federal and state law enforcement has been asked to put much of their time and resources into fighting drug crimes, at the expense of other offenses. The result is well known to anyone who has worked in the court system or law enforcement itself. Violations of election law are rarely detected and even more rarely prosecuted. For the rich and immoral, it seems foolish not to try tax avoidance. The hard truth is that crimes committed by people like Mr. Manafort have become crimes that pay, for the chances of being caught are low, and if you are caught, the sentences are relatively light. In fact, federal corruption and white-collar prosecutions are at a 20-year low and down 40 percent since 1998, according to tracking by Syracuse University.There is a grave danger that the swirling politics of the Mueller report will lead us to forget what it revealed: a toxic cloud of routine criminality surrounding the American political system. It echoed previous efforts, like the F.B.I.’s Abscam sting in the late 1970s, which yielded the corruption convictions of one senator and six congressmen, not to mention the more recent corruption trials in New York, Illinois and California.This is why we need political leaders who will free up investigators and prosecutors who have been fighting the war on drugs and put them to work investigating Manafort-style foreign corruption, Cohen-style financial crimes and Russian-style election propagandizing. The Mueller inquiry may be over, but it should inspire the work of a new generation of prosecutors who want to fight one of the great evils of our time.Tim Wu (@superwuster) is a law professor at Columbia, a contributing opinion writer and the author, most recently, of “The Curse of Bigness: Antitrust in the New Gilded Age.”The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported byFURTHER READINGBy Alexandra Alter and Concepción de LeónNearly a month after Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, delivered his report on Russian interference in the 2016 election — and whether Donald Trump and his associates conspired with Russia or obstructed justice — to Attorney General William P. Barr, members of Congress, and the public, are still waiting to read the report’s contents.This week, Barr told Congress that he plans to make a redacted version of the Mueller report public, possibly by next week.While we wait to read the report — here are some books to occupy you the meantime.Based on rare interviews with Mueller, as well as with more than 150 former government and city officials, this book covers the former FBI director’s tenure and legacy, as well as the evolution of the Bureau. Graff explains that while FBI agents were once focused on solving crimes, post 9/11 they have also been tasked with preventing them, especially potential terrorist threats. The job has become more complex, in other words, and Graff argues that as the person who led the institution through this transition, Mueller is the most influential leader of the FBI since J. Edgar Hoover. When Trump fired F.B.I. director James Comey in May 2017, it triggered a rapid cascade of events within the Department of Justice that ultimately led to Mueller’s appointment as special counsel. In this mega-best seller, Comey describes his role in the high-stakes investigation into ties between the Trump campaign and Russia. Writing in the Times, Michiko Kakutani praised Comey’s eye for detail, referring to him as “what Saul Bellow called a “first-class noticer.”“Comey’s book fleshes out the testimony he gave before the Senate Intelligence Committee in June 2017 with considerable emotional detail, and it showcases its author’s gift for narrative — a skill he clearly honed during his days as United States attorney for the Southern District of New York,” she wrote.This scathing indictment (no, not in the technical sense) of the Trump administration is from the former deputy director of the F.B.I., who was fired last year right before his planned retirement. McCabe is unsparing in the book: “The work of the F.B.I. is being undermined by the current president.”Our critic Dwight Garner took appreciative note of McCabe’s “lean” prose: “The first sentence demands to be read in the voice of Jack Webb from “Dragnet”: “Between the world of chaos and the world of order stands the rule of law.”Bharara, the former United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York, was also fired by Trump in 2017, which seems to be a great way to get a book deal.Bharara oversaw a significant investigation into insider trading by Wall Street executives, and also investigated Russian money laundering. Lately, he has become an omnipresent commentator on the myriad investigations into Trump (in addition to his new book and regular TV appearances, he has a popular podcast, “Stay Tuned With Preet”).But when it comes to the timing and content of the Mueller report, he’s as much in the dark as the rest of us, apparently.Harding, a correspondent for The Guardian, explores Trump’s decades-long entanglements with Russia in what his publisher describes as a conspiracy “so huge it involves international espionage, offshore banks, sketchy real estate deals, the Miss Universe pageant, mobsters, money laundering, poisoned dissidents, computer hacking, and the most shocking election in American history.” Harding delves into Trump’s deals with Deutsche Bank and examines Trump’s campaign manager Paul Manafort’s extensive ties to Russian and Ukranian oligarchs.(It’s an exhaustive account, but by now, it’s a bit out of date: The book came out in 2017, many indictments and plea deals ago.)Isikoff and Corn, two veteran journalists in Washington, lay out how Russia unleashed hackers and internet trolls to disrupt the 2016 presidential election. They also explore the puzzling ties between Trump and his associates and Russian officials. In a review for The Times, the Times journalist Steven Lee Myers, the author of “The New Tsar: The Rise and Reign of Vladimir Putin,” wrote: “For anyone who believes in the better angels of American politics, ‘Russian Roulette’ is a depressing book. The Russian hacking, it is now clear, simply exploited the vulgarity already plaguing American political campaigns, which churn on spin and strategy (and money) far more than vision or values.”In “The Apprentice,” Miller, a Pulitzer Prize-winning reporter who has covered national security for The Washington Post, details how Russia exploited American technology platforms to spread misinformation, damaging Hillary Clinton and boosting Trump, while at the same time hacking and releasing Democratic emails, further inflaming partisan divisions in an already nasty campaign. He also explores links between Trump and his associates and Russia, but steers clear of speculation about what the ultimate revelations regarding Trump’s possible complicity might be.“Miller makes no pretense about knowing the end of the story and acknowledges that at this point he does not know whether the special counsel, Robert Mueller, will accuse the president of any crimes,” a critic wrote in The Washington Post.McFaul, a former ambassador to Russia, was responsible for what became known as the “Reset,” a political plan put in place during the Obama administration to reboot relations with the country. McFaul argues that he and Barack Obama were able to drive forward a range of policies, but that the election of Vladimir Putin halted their plans. McFaul became persona non grata in Russia. He and his family were closely surveilled, and McFaul was subjected to cyber attacks meant to discredit him, such as YouTube videos suggesting he was a pedophile or a fake Twitter account that posted criticisms of the Russian elections under his name. “McFaul combines both analytical and personal perspectives to offer a fascinating and timely account of the current crisis in the relationship between Russia and the United States,” our reviewer wrote. This is the definitive account of the explosive investigation that brought down President Richard Nixon, by two now-famous reporters from The Washington Post. More recently, with his latest best-seller, “Fear,” Woodward has unleashed his investigative skills on the Trump administration.It took Kenneth Starr, a former special counsel, around four years and $40 million to complete his investigation into President Bill Clinton’s affair with Monica Lewinsky, and whether Clinton committed perjury and obstructed justice in an effort to cover up the scandal. The salacious account is a door-stopper, almost 500 pages long.Several publishers, including Skyhorse, Scribner and Melville House, as well as the audiobook publisher Audible, have already announced their plans to publish the Mueller report and have made the books available on Amazon for pre-order. (Presumably the pages are still blank.)Or, if you can’t wait, you can always reread some of Mueller’s vividly detailed indictments. Those documents lay out contours of the investigation so far, which has led to 199 charges against 34 people and three companies.Alexandra Alter writes about publishing and the literary world. Before joining The Times in 2014, she covered books and culture for The Wall Street Journal. Prior to that, she reported on religion, and the occasional hurricane, for The Miami Herald.
   @xanalter    @xanalter Concepción de León is a digital staff writer covering news and culture for the Books section.  

Supported byCongress needs to be able to make its own assessment of the facts — and so do we.By Noah BookbinderMr. Bookbinder is the executive director of Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington.When President Trump fired James Comey, the director of the F.B.I., on May 9, 2017, many Americans were justifiably worried that investigators would never be permitted to get to the bottom of Russia’s attack on our 2016 election and any potential involvement of Mr. Trump’s associates. Despite continued attempts by the president to impede the investigation, Robert Mueller, the special counsel, has, in under two years, indicted dozens of Russians and Americans and submitted a report for review to Attorney General William Barr.Now that Mr. Mueller’s investigation is complete (or nearly complete), the Department of Justice must formally reveal its findings to Congress and the American people, which have separate and enormously consequential responsibilities of their own. These responsibilities cannot be carried out fully without direct access to the material that is in the report. Understanding this, the House of Representatives has already unanimously passed a resolution calling for the report’s release, and in recent polling vast majorities of Americans have agreed with this approach.The report that Mr. Mueller submitted to Mr. Barr for review should be viewed in combination with the remarkable assertions and conclusions that the special counsel has already reached in the form of indictments and guilty pleas of Trump associates and Russian nationals and organizations. Mr. Mueller and his team have already established that the Russian government engaged in a multipronged attack on our democracy. To review: Russian military intelligence officers hacked computers, networks and email accounts associated with the Hillary Clinton campaign and the Democratic Party, and then released hacked material via WikiLeaks. Separately, Russians used fraudulent social media accounts to directly influence American opinions about the 2016 election. As the nation’s intelligence agencies and the Senate Intelligence Committee have separately concluded, these efforts were calculated to help Mr. Trump’s candidacy for president and to denigrate his opponent’s.We also know that senior members of the Trump campaign, including the president’s son, son-in-law and campaign chairman, met with Russians who promised “dirt” on Mrs. Clinton. If there was in fact “no collusion,” as the president so often claims, it apparently was not for lack of trying. The special counsel has secured guilty pleas on serious federal felony charges from Trump associates, including Mr. Trump’s campaign chairman, Paul Manafort; the deputy campaign chairman, Rick Gates; a former national security adviser, Michael Flynn; a Trump campaign foreign policy adviser, George Papadopoulos; and Mr. Trump’s former personal lawyer, Michael Cohen.What do all these men have in common? They lied to investigators about the nature of their relationships with foreign powers, and they worked for the Trump campaign. And that’s before we even start talking about Roger Stone.Regardless of whether efforts by Trump associates to coordinate with or benefit from interference by Russia or WikiLeaks were criminal, the fact that Mr. Trump and his campaign strategists sought to benefit from a foreign adversary’s efforts to undermine our democracy is one of the greatest breaches of public trust our country has ever witnessed. If Mr. Mueller ultimately determined that indicting the president’s associates for this conduct was not appropriate, that does not mean that there should not be consequences for this outrageous breach of trust.Though these and other findings have already been made public, many key questions remain. Chief among these is whether the special counsel found evidence that Mr. Trump obstructed justice by engaging in a pattern of conduct calculated to impede investigations of his campaign and his administration, including by firing Mr. Comey; attempting to force out the previous attorney general, Jeff Sessions, and pushing Mr. Sessions to reverse his recusal from the Russia inquiry; and potentially by dangling pardons to key defendants. Congress and the American people deserve to know the truth about the facts and circumstances of the president’s possibly obstructive acts. Obstruction of an investigation is not only criminal conduct, but also an affront to our system of government and the faith that the American people have in it.Equally important the report should begin to answer the crucial question that hangs over the entire Trump presidency: What did the president know and when did he know it? It is possible, for example, that Mr. Mueller may have uncovered evidence that Mr. Trump knew in advance of the numerous interactions between high-level campaign officials and Russian operatives, or that he knew of the plan to disseminate the hacked emails at strategically important times. This type of explosive revelation could indicate that the president was intentionally helping a malicious foreign power undermine our democracy. If the president knew about this conduct — and continued to protect and reward high-level intermediaries like Mr. Flynn and Mr. Manafort when he assumed office — the public could rightfully question his fitness to continue to serve as president.The report may also shed light on why the special counsel has apparently declined to indict Mr. Trump. That it is Department of Justice policy not to indict a sitting president is well known. Given that, Mr. Mueller may have decided that some of Mr. Trump’s conduct, while deeply concerning, unacceptable or even potentially illegal, did not rise to the level of a chargeable offense in the presidential context. In such circumstances, the Justice Department is functionally deferring to Congress’s primary jurisdiction over presidential accountability and should transmit to Congress whatever materials are relevant, particularly to potential abuses of power.That is precisely why the entire report must be made available not only to the public’s representatives in Congress, but also to the public as a whole. The responsibility for holding to account any bad actors identified in the report, President Trump included, now falls on the American people and Congress. Without direct access to Mr. Mueller’s full report, Congress cannot responsibly decide whether to exercise its powers of oversight or impeachment, and the American people will be unable to make a fully informed decision about whether Mr. Trump can be trusted with the high office he occupies.The report, and the findings and evidence supporting it, must be released.Noah Bookbinder (@NoahBookbinder) is the executive director of Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported byTech FixThere are many tools for setting up two-factor authentication, a security mechanism that prevents improper access. These four methods are the most compelling.By Brian X. ChenWhen Facebook revealed last week that it had stored millions of people’s account passwords in an insecure format, it underlined the importance of a security setting that many of us neglect to use: two-factor authentication.That might sound like a mouthful, but it has become essential for our digital protection. What it stands for is basically two steps to verify that you are who you say you are, so that even if a password falls into the hands of the wrong people, they cannot pretend to be you. Here’s how two-factor authentication has generally worked: Say, for instance, you enter your user name and password to get into your online bank account. That’s step one. The bank then sends a text message to your phone with a temporary code that must be punched in before the site lets you log in. That’s step two. In this way, you prove your identity by having access to your phone and that code.Sounds simple and safer, right? Yet barely anyone uses it. According to Google, fewer than 10 percent of its users have signed up for two-factor authentication to protect their Google accounts for services including email, photos and calendars.“It’s really, really hard to get a user to sign up,” said Guemmy Kim, Google’s head of account security. “It sounds cumbersome.”In reality, it isn’t that complicated. And in recent years, the technique has evolved to become more secure and, in some cases, even easier to use. That’s because in addition to receiving text messages, you can now log in by using codes shown in an app, by plugging in a physical security key or by setting up your phone to receive a notification and hitting a button. More on that below.Using just one or two of these methods will go a long way toward preventing an inappropriate person, like a jealous ex or a hacker, from getting access to your account. So here’s a guide to four ways of setting up two-factor authentication on some of the most popular sites — and the pros and cons of each method.Let’s start by setting up your Instagram account with traditional two-factor authentication using text messages. This is the most common verification technique across apps and websites, though it has some of the biggest vulnerabilities.Here’s what to do:Inside your Instagram app, open settings, then tap privacy and security and select two-factor authentication. Enter your phone number. You will receive a text message containing a six-digit code. Enter the code.From now on, whenever you log in to your Instagram account, you will receive a text message containing a temporary code. This must be entered before you log in.Pros: This method is super easy: You do not need to install any additional apps on your phone to receive texts. And if you lose your device or switch to a new phone, you can still receive your login codes as long as you have the same phone number.Cons: Phone numbers and text messages are susceptible to phishing or hijacking by hackers (though this is unlikely to happen unless you are a high-profile target such as a well-known activist). If you travel abroad, receiving text messages on a foreign carrier can be pricey. And there are security risks in receiving texts on foreign networks in countries with heavy surveillance such as China and Russia.Another way to start two-factor authentication is to receive a temporary code via a so-called authenticator app. For this example, let’s protect your Facebook account with such an app.Here’s how it works:On your phone, open your app store and download a free authenticator app, like Google Authenticator or Authy. Then on Facebook’s website, go to your security and login settings. Click “use two-factor authentication,” then “get started.” After re-entering your password, choose authentication app as your security method. From here, follow the onscreen instructions. From now on, whenever you log in to Facebook, you can open the authenticator app and look at the temporary six-digit code generated for your Facebook account. You must enter this code before being able to log in.Pros: You do not need an internet or a cellphone connection to receive a code via an authentication app. Most important, a hijacker can’t easily steal your codes from an authenticator app.Cons: If you lose your phone or switch to a new one, you have to regain access to your account through a recovery method such as entering a backup code or asking the app provider to reset your account. That can be time consuming.Google Prompt is a relatively new authentication feature for securing Google accounts. Instead of receiving a text message with a code, you receive a notification through a Google app asking whether the person trying to sign in is you. Hitting “Yes” logs you in.Here are the steps:On Gmail.com, go to your account settings and click “security.” Click 2-Step Verification, and then click Add Google Prompt.Click Get Started and select your smartphone. On your phone, open the Google or Gmail app. Google will show a device trying to log in to your account. Tap Yes on the prompt. From now on, whenever you log in to your Gmail account, the Gmail or Google app will ask whether the person seeking access is you. Hitting Yes will log you in.Pros: It’s easy. Receiving a notification requires only an internet connection. Selecting Yes is faster than typing in a code.Cons: Not all apps and sites have a prompt-based verification method, meaning your banking site, for example, may still text you a temporary code. If your internet connection is spotty, you may also have a difficult time receiving the prompt.Last, let’s go over the most physical two-factor authentication method, which involves plugging in a key. Google was one of the first to introduce a security key program in 2017, and many websites, including Twitter and Facebook, have since adopted the method.Here’s how to secure a Twitter account with a security key:Buy a security key, such as Google’s $50 Titan security key bundle.On Twitter’s website, go to your account settings and click “Set up login verification.” Enter your phone number, and then punch in the code you receive via text message.In “Security key,” click set up. Insert the security key into a USB port, and press the button on the key. Press the button again to verify the key. The next time you log in to Twitter, click “Choose different verification method” and select “Use your security key.” After plugging the key into your computer, you will be able to log in.Pros: For people who are extra paranoid about being phished or hacked, this is one of the most secure authentication methods because physical access to your key is required for logging in.Cons: The keys cost money. What’s more, some sites require you to insert the key every time, so if you forget to carry your key, logging in with a backup method can be complicated. And not all web browsers support logging in with security keys.Brian X. Chen is the lead consumer technology writer. He reviews products and writes Tech Fix, a column about solving tech-related problems. Before joining The Times in 2011 he reported on Apple and the wireless industry for Wired.  @bxchen 

Supported byI’ve followed the investigation closely. Here’s what I’ll be looking for. By Quinta JurecicMs. Jurecic is the managing editor of Lawfare. Any week now, any day now — so the news reports go — the special counsel’s office will file the Mueller report.It will round out a trilogy. In 1974, to inform its impeachment proceedings, Congress received what became known as the “road map,” a terse document from the office of the Watergate special prosecutor Leon Jaworski detailing evidence of wrongdoing by President Richard Nixon. In 1998, another investigator submitted a report on a president’s potentially impeachable offenses to Congress: a narrative from the independent counsel Kenneth Starr of Bill Clinton’s misconduct.Following Justice Department regulations, the special counsel Robert Mueller will submit a “confidential report” to the attorney general, Bill Barr. Mr. Barr will decide how much of it to share with Congress and with the world at large.Assuming that some significant portion of the report becomes public, and that it provides an additional factual record beyond what we already know, the question will quickly become how to identify any smoking guns. I’ve spent the last year and a half following the investigation. Here’s a partial list of what I’ll be looking for:In November 2015, according to Mr. Mueller, Michael Cohen, then Mr. Trump’s lawyer, was put in touch with a Russian man who promised Mr. Cohen “political synergy” and “repeatedly proposed a meeting” between Mr. Trump and the Russian president, Vladimir Putin, to help with efforts to construct a Trump Tower Moscow. In January 2016, the office of a “high-level Russian official” — most likely, according to reports, of Mr. Putin’s spokesman Dmitri Peskov — reached out to Mr. Cohen about the project, and efforts on it continued at least into the summer of 2016.How closely were Mr. Trump and his children involved in the Trump Tower Moscow negotiations, and over what period? How much did they know of or encourage Mr. Cohen’s contacts with the Russian government — including tentative plans for a meeting between Mr. Trump and Mr. Putin? How did the Trump family and campaign understand the connection between the “Moscow project” and Mr. Trump’s political ambitions?Mr. Mueller estimated in a court filing that Trump Tower Moscow could have generated “hundreds of millions of dollars from Russian sources in licensing fees and other revenues” — an unusually large profit for the Trump Organization. Why was the number so atypically high? “Dirt” on ClintonIn spring 2016, according to the special counsel, a professor linked to the Russian government told the Trump campaign foreign policy adviser George Papadopoulos that Russia had “dirt” on Hillary Clinton in the form of “thousands of emails.” Around this time, the special counsel’s indictment of Russian military intelligence officials shows that the Russian government had hacked into networks and accounts belonging to the Democratic Party and the Clinton campaign, and would soon begin coordinating with WikiLeaks to disseminate the stolen information. In June, Donald Trump Jr. met with a Kremlin-linked lawyer at Trump Tower in New York in what seems to have been a failed effort to get similar “dirt.”Who else in the campaign did Mr. Papadopoulos tell about his scoop, and how high did that knowledge go? Did Donald Trump Jr. inform his father of his plans before the meeting? Roger Stone and WikiLeaksMr. Mueller’s indictment of the Trump adviser Roger Stone alleges that Mr. Stone worked throughout the summer of 2016 to get in touch with WikiLeaks and became aware of the organization’s plans to disclose hacked information. Mr. Cohen claimed in his testimony to Congress that he was in the room when Mr. Stone informed Mr. Trump that WikiLeaks was planning a “massive dump of emails that would damage Hillary Clinton’s campaign.”Was Mr. Stone coordinating with the campaign in his efforts to get information from WikiLeaks? How much did Mr. Trump know about what Mr. Stone had found out? And who in the campaign, if anyone, might have been aware of separate efforts by the Republican operative Peter Smith to obtain additional Clinton emails from sources Mr. Smith believed were Russian hackers?Flynn’s Promises to Moscow The national security adviser Michael Flynn was fired just 24 days into his tenure over fallout from his transition-period contacts with the Russian ambassador at the time, Sergey Kislyak — a matter about which he later pleaded guilty to lying to federal investigators. When he promised Mr. Kislyak that Mr. Trump would lift sanctions on Russia imposed by the departing Obama administration, was Mr. Flynn freelancing or was he acting on the instructions of someone higher?Russian Influence Operations Almost every case that Mr. Mueller has filed has illuminated a different facet of what appears to be a systematic, long-running effort by the government of Russia to reach out to Mr. Trump’s world. It’s clear that the Kremlin was attempting to gain access and influence. Was it also out-and-out working to recruit agents within the Trump Organization and campaign?On our side of the Atlantic, to what extent was that outreach welcomed and reciprocated by the Trump team, and to what extent was Mr. Trump a passive beneficiary? Did the Trump Organization and campaign understand and respond to those instances as manifestations of a systematic effort by the Russian government or as unrelated connections with unconnected Russians?Obstruction of JusticeMr. Mueller has also reportedly conducted an investigation into potential obstruction of justice by the president: possible interference with the special counsel’s efforts, and with the F.B.I.’s before that. Mr. Barr, among others, has argued that action authorized by the Constitution — like dismissing the F.B.I. director — by definition cannot constitute obstruction. Will the report sidestep these tricky legal questions by showing efforts by Mr. Trump to derail the inquiry that fall plainly outside the scope of presidential authority? To what extent does the obstruction investigation overlap with the collusion investigation — meaning that the special counsel and the F.B.I. understood the president’s apparent efforts at obstruction as part of the troubling pattern of coordination with the Russian government that incited the investigation in the first place?What proportion of the Mueller report becomes public will hinge on many factors: how much classified information and grand jury material shielded from public disclosure it has; how much of it is arguably protected by executive privilege; to what extent it details criminal conduct, and to what extent Mr. Barr may reasonably argue that the Justice Department has an interest in protecting the privacy of those who are innocent.The Watergate “road map” first became available to the public in 2018, when a judge ordered it unsealed almost 45 years after it was handed over to Congress. The Starr Report, in contrast, was released within two days of its transmission to the legislature. With any luck, the time frame for release of the Mueller report will be closer to the latter than to the former.Quinta Jurecic (@qjurecic) is the managing editor of Lawfare. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.



      By SCOTT SHANE and 
    
GABRIELLA DEMCZUK

MARCH 21, 2019

Here are some pieces of the jigsaw puzzle. The full picture is missing.
It began with a trickle — curious developments that mostly raised more questions. There was evidence of election hacking — but could it really have been directed by the Kremlin? Certain Americans on Facebook, pitching for Donald J. Trump and stirring up anger, turned out to be impostors — but who had concocted them? One Trump campaign aide after another surfaced in sketchy reports of meetings with mysterious Russians — but did the encounters add up to anything significant?Then there was the candidate’s famously twitchy Twitter finger, scathing toward so many public figures but oddly respectful of the Russian president. Was that a signal of dark secrets, or just of a soft spot for a strongman?And so, in 2016, began the F.B.I.’s epic investigation — and the attempt by journalists to track it.There are a thousand ways for reporters to inquire into the slow unfolding of a scandal, many of them producing mostly frustration. Making call after call to lawyers for those under investigation — and to their friends and frenemies, rivals and business associates. Scrutinizing a so-called dossier that makes shocking claims but offers little evidence sufficiently detailed to allow a true fact-check. Haunting congressional hearings and trailing the witnesses through the hallway mob scene afterward.But if some F.B.I. inquiries are helpfully leaky for journalists, the special counsel’s investigation has proved hermetically sealed. Even so basic a question of when the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, may deliver his report to the attorney general remains uncertain, the subject of many erroneous predictions.If an investigation is a jigsaw puzzle, the mosaic of the two-year inquiry by Mr. Mueller remains incomplete, at least for the public and the press. We have seen major parts laid out in staggering detail in the 199 charges he has filed against 34 people and three companies — the only way Mr. Mueller, 74, a former F.B.I. director, has so far chosen to speak.Jeff Sessions, the former attorney general, recommended Mr. Comey’s firing.President Trump fired Mr. ComeyThe special counsel was appointed.We know what keywords a particular Russian military intelligence hacker searched for on the web on a particular date. We know that “Putin’s niece,” introduced to a Trump campaign adviser by a suspicious professor, was not Putin’s niece. We know that a Trump Tower in Moscow, a longtime business dream of Mr. Trump, was still being secretly pursued even as the candidate took public stands that might please or offend Russia.In that sense, the trickle has long since become a flood. The cast of characters has grown, and grown familiar — Flynn, Manafort, Cohen, Papadopoulos; the pattern of lying to investigators and Congress has become routine; the president’s shifting stories have become the norm. News coverage has become background noise, like a sea that periodically surges and retreats.But for all of that, much of the investigation remains guesswork. We don’t know whether we know 90 percent or 50 percent or 20 percent of the findings. It is possible that Mr. Mueller’s team of aggressive prosecutors has already revealed virtually all of its work in public indictments and courtroom pronouncements. And it is also possible that the lawyers are hoarding shocking new information, disclosures capable of shaking the Trump presidency. We just don’t know.Mr. SessionsRod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general.William P. Barr, the attorney general.In a polarized country, with different news outlets offering divergent partisan spins, different factions fill the Mueller vacuum with radically different realities. Many Democrats, persuaded that the president has criminally obstructed justice, await final proof of “collusion” with Russia, the vague standard that has become a measure for Mr. Mueller’s ultimate findings.Yet many of Mr. Trump’s supporters, drawing their information from other sources, believe the real story is something else entirely: enemies of Mr. Trump misused government agencies to spy on his campaign, then began a bogus investigation to undermine his presidency.It is an alarming divide, not because the two sides harbor different opinions, but because they believe different sets of facts.So the capital is on edge, snatching at the latest rumors about when the Mueller report might appear and what it might say. The sphinxlike special counsel keeps his counsel. The journalists troll for fresh scraps of inside information, and hope the end is coming soon.Produced by Umi Syam, Marisa Schwartz Taylor and Rumsey Taylor.

Supported byTech fixYou can now take key duplication into your own hands using kiosks and apps from start-ups. Our columnist explored whether the benefits of this outweigh the security risks.By Brian X. ChenSAN FRANCISCO — A yellow booth with a screen caught my attention on a recent grocery trip. A blue ring on the contraption glowed, luring me toward it.This was no lottery ticket machine — it was a kiosk for duplicating keys from a company called KeyMe. And it was for copying not just ordinary keys but also special ones, including digital access cards and the high-security Medeco key that I use to get into my apartment building.My apartment complex typically charges $100 for a copy of this key, which is an advanced physical key that is difficult to reproduce. KeyMe offered to mail a duplicate to me for about $10. So I tried it.I immediately felt regret. Did I just compromise my building security by sharing the key with a private company? If KeyMe were hacked, couldn’t someone break in to my home? This is a question people may increasingly wrestle with as KeyMe and similar services like MinuteKey and My Key Machine grow quickly. KeyMe has kiosks in 2,000 stores across 46 states for retailers like Safeway, Bed Bath &amp; Beyond and 7-Eleven, and the company said the number was rising. KeyMe also offers a mobile app that lets you take a photo of a key and store the data on its servers. That means if you are locked out, you can simply go to a kiosk, log in to your account and quickly cut a duplicate key.I decided to take a closer look at KeyMe, a company founded in 2012 and based in Manhattan. Deviant Ollam, a security consultant who gives lectures about lock-picking at Defcon, the hacker convention, also provided an assessment of the company’s security practices.Mr. Ollam had concerns. Chief among them: the ability of an abusive ex to use KeyMe to break into a former partner’s home. “The idea of intimate jealous partners having access to people’s online accounts is very well known — but possibly not among smart male technologists,” he said.In the end, I recommend against using KeyMe’s app or creating a user account to use the service. But I was happy to make copies from the kiosk. Here’s what I found.To help you find a nearby KeyMe kiosk, the company provides a locator tool. At a kiosk, the screen presents options for key types to copy, including standard house keys, special security keys, vehicle keys, and access cards and fobs. After selecting an option, insert a key into a slot and let the kiosk scan it; for access cards, tap the card on a scanner.If you copy an ordinary house key, you can cut the key directly at the machine. For more specialized types, the machine will most likely say that the keys need to be programmed elsewhere and be mailed to you. Prices vary: A standard key costs about $3, an access card costs about $12.50, and a car key starts at $20.After you make or order a copy, you can create an account and store the key data with the company. That requires registering a fingerprint. To set up the mobile app, enter an email address and create a password. Inside the app, you can take a photo of a key by placing it on a white sheet of paper and taking a photo of each side of the key. Then it can determine whether the photo is good enough for you to cut a copy of the key at a kiosk or whether it has to be mailed to you.More important than how KeyMe works is how the company protects your data. KeyMe says it retains as little identifiable data as possible. The company immediately purges a customer’s name and mailing address after it ships off a key order, it said. It does keep a customer’s email address and key data, and if someone registers a fingerprint, it keeps a mathematical representation of the fingerprint.To defend against cyberattacks, KeyMe said, it divides up pieces of user data and stores them across three different places. That means hackers would have to break into all three systems to obtain the information.Greg Marsh, KeyMe’s chief executive, said the company was able to hold criminals accountable. That’s because unlike traditional locksmith companies or key copiers at hardware stores, KeyMe has an information trail on what keys were produced and by whom. In the event of a crime, the police could check whether a key was duplicated with KeyMe and track down who had copied it.“We’re the only company that exists where if law enforcement has a key in question, we can actively say whether we have a key or not,” Mr. Marsh said. “Part of our mission is to build proactive relationships with law enforcement.”That raised a red flag for Mr. Ollam, the lock-picking expert. He wondered how difficult KeyMe would make it for law enforcement authorities to gain access to user data — for instance, whether it would require subpoenas for all requests or just a casual note.Mr. Marsh said KeyMe had not been involved in any instances where it copied a key that was involved in a crime. So the company has not handed over user data to the authorities and has not devised a regimented procedure. “But we would never just turn over customer information to a third party, including law enforcement, without very prudent and thoughtful measures,” he said.I asked Mr. Marsh why he did not commit to a clear procedure now to give customers confidence. He said that crimes varied and that the nature of an investigation would determine how a customer’s data would be shared.Mr. Ollam brought up the hypothetical situation of an abusive ex, who gains access to his or her former partner’s email account. In that case, the person could reset the KeyMe password, log in to the app and have a key copy mailed over.In response, KeyMe said that people trying to gain access to their key data at a kiosk would be required to scan a fingerprint before a duplicate could be reproduced. Mr. Marsh acknowledged that someone could get into an email account and reset a KeyMe password, but said the same vulnerability applied to many types of internet accounts that rely on passwords.I noted that plenty of websites offered two-step authentication. That involves sending a temporary code to another device, like a cellphone, which must be entered before someone can log in with a password. KeyMe lacks this feature. Mr. Marsh said KeyMe had discussed enacting two-step authentication. But given that KeyMe tries to retain a bare minimum of user data, the feature would be complex to incorporate, he said.Because of KeyMe’s vague responses about cooperating with law enforcement and the password-reset vulnerability with the app, I do not recommend using the app or creating a user account for the service.But if you simply want to make or order a key copy at the kiosk, the service is useful, especially for key types that you can’t typically duplicate at a hardware store.In addition to my Medeco key, I tried copying a few standard house keys and an access card. The machine took a few minutes to cut the house keys, which worked well. For the access card, I opted to copy the data onto a small sticker that could be adhered to my phone case. The sticker copy arrived in the mailbox after about three days, and it worked perfectly.But the duplicate of the special Medeco key failed to turn the lock for my building gate. Mr. Marsh said this key was so tricky that KeyMe’s machine-learning software and a human check had failed to reproduce it correctly. The company has decided to stop supporting my specific key.On one hand, I was disappointed. On the other hand, it was a relief that the key was too tough to copy. Convenience is not everything, especially when it comes to making sure your home security stays as strong as possible. Brian X. Chen is the lead consumer technology writer. He reviews products and writes Tech Fix, a column about solving tech-related problems. Before joining The Times in 2011 he reported on Apple and the wireless industry for Wired.  @bxchen 

Supported byDon’t let Trump pretend he has been vindicated.By Michelle GoldbergOpinion ColumnistThe Mueller investigation is over, and the only people close to Donald Trump who have been criminally charged are his former campaign chairman, former deputy campaign chairman, former personal lawyer, former national security adviser, former campaign foreign policy adviser and Roger Stone, the president’s longtime friend and strategist. The report written by the special counsel Robert Mueller, according to a quotation in a brief summary issued by Attorney General William Barr, says that “while this report does not conclude that the president committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him.” Naturally, the president and his allies are claiming, as one of Trump’s tweets said, “Complete and Total EXONERATION.”I won’t pretend that the weekend’s news was not very good for Trump and dispiriting for those of us who despise him. Whatever else is in the Mueller report, it says, according to Barr, that the investigation “did not establish” that anyone from the Trump campaign conspired or coordinated with the Russian government in its 2016 election interference. The overtures we all know about — the Trump Tower meeting, Trump’s public call for Russia to obtain Hillary Clinton’s emails, which Russian hackers tried to do that very day — were not part of a crime, or at least not part of a crime that the special counsel could prove. There will be no deus ex Mueller bringing this wretched presidency to an early end. On the contrary, Trump is emboldened, and his foes momentarily defensive.Until the Mueller report is publicly released, however, it’s impossible to tell how much of Trump’s victory is substantive and how much is spin. The report, evidently, leaves open the question of whether Trump obstructed justice. In his letter to Congress about the report, Barr said that he and his deputy, Rod Rosenstein, made the determination that no obstruction of justice occurred. Of course, last year Barr wrote a memo calling Mueller’s obstruction investigation “grossly irresponsible” and “fatally misconceived,” which is surely why Trump appointed him in the first place. There is no reason for anyone to take his finding seriously.[Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]Even some of the underlying questions about Trump’s relationship with Russia remain open. Here, those of us who’d hoped for more from Mueller should be mindful of the temptation to grasp at straws. On Friday, when the news broke that Mueller wasn’t recommending any more indictments, many of us immediately asked whether there were sealed indictments. There weren’t. As we parse Barr’s letter, we should be aware of the human tendency toward motivated reasoning.But we should be equally aware of the media tendency to capitulate in the face of Trumpian triumphalism. (Recall the pressure to give Trump credit after his first meeting with Kim Jong-un, despite the emptiness of the resulting agreement.) So we shouldn’t overlook the fact that when it comes to Trump’s relationship with Russia, Barr’s letter speaks only to very narrow questions about Trump campaign involvement in Russian information warfare operations in 2016.Barr wrote that no Trump associate conspired or “knowingly” coordinated with the Internet Research Agency, the Russian troll farm that spread pro-Trump and anti-Clinton propaganda. Did any do so unknowingly? Barr also wrote that the special counsel didn’t find that Trump associates “conspired or coordinated with the Russian government” in hacking into the Democratic National Committee’s computers, but few thought the campaign had a role in the actual digital break-in.Still, assuming Barr’s summary is accurate, it means that while Trump was installed with Russia’s help, neither he nor his campaign assisted Russia in committing the crimes that aided his ascent. (If he cheated his way to victory, it was through more pedestrian alleged violations of campaign finance law.) We’re still in the dark, however, about all the steps Trump took to thwart the investigation and about the extent of his vulnerability to compromise.On Saturday, the left-wing writer Matt Taibbi published a widely shared essay calling Russiagate “this generation’s W.M.D.,” a national security hoax, abetted by a credulous media, akin to the one that justified the Iraq War. “The biggest thing this affair has uncovered so far is Donald Trump paying off a porn star,” he wrote.That’s silly. The biggest thing this affair has uncovered is that throughout much of the presidential campaign, Trump was seeking to build a Trump Tower in Moscow. The deal had the potential to make hundreds of millions of dollars for the Trump Organization, and Trump’s lawyer solicited the Russian government’s help to get it done. After the election, Trump lied about the deal to the American people. Vladimir Putin knew the truth, giving him leverage over Trump. Is that the only leverage he had?It now falls to Congress to find out, and it’s important that Democrats not allow themselves to be intimidated by right-wing chest-beating, particularly if Republicans try to quash the report’s release. Speaking to Fox News on Sunday, Representative Devin Nunes, a devoted Trump lackey, called for the report to be burned. Jay Sekulow, one of Trump’s lawyers, has said he would “fight very aggressively” to stop the president’s written answers to Mueller from being made public. Republicans may be gloating, but it’s Democrats who should be on the offensive. If Trump thinks he has been vindicated, then what is he hiding?The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Michelle Goldberg has been an Opinion columnist since 2017. She is the author of several books about politics, religion and women’s rights, and was part of a team that won a Pulitzer Prize for public service in 2018 for reporting on workplace sexual harassment issues.  @michelleinbklyn 

Supported bySo far, no Democratic candidate is claiming to be ready.By Thomas L. FriedmanOpinion ColumnistAs the 2020 campaign gets underway, we’ve heard about a Green New Deal, Medicare for all, breaking up Amazon and universal basic income — to name but a few of the ideas raised by Democratic presidential hopefuls. But one issue has been largely absent: foreign policy — the potential use of force, great-power competition and the management of alliances that will be more important during the next presidency than it has been in three decades.Maybe I missed it, but I haven’t heard any of the Democrats running on the argument that he or she is the best person to answer the White House crisis line at 3 in the morning. They all seem inclined to let that call go to voice mail. I hope that doesn’t last, because that phone will be ringing. This will be an extraordinarily volatile and confusing time for U.S. foreign policy.We’re in the post-post-Cold War era — an era when being secretary of state, let alone president, has become a terrible job. (If anyone asks you to become secretary of state, say you had your heart set on secretary of agriculture.) The post-Cold War era had its issues — 9/11, Iraq and Afghanistan, to be sure — but it was in many ways a unipolar belle epoque, in which an American hegemon stifled any serious great-power conflict.The post-post-Cold War era, which has been slowly unfolding since the early 2000s, requires a president to manage and juggle three huge geopolitical trends — and the interactions between them — all at once.The first is the resurgence of three big regional powers: Russia, China and Iran. Each is seeking to dominate its home region and is willing to use force for that purpose. This trend is compellingly described in a new book by Michael Mandelbaum, the Johns Hopkins emeritus professor of U.S. foreign policy, titled “The Rise and Fall of Peace on Earth.”As Mandelbuam notes, in Europe, Russia has occupied part of Ukraine. In East Asia, China has claimed most of the Western Pacific as its own territory, contrary to international law; has built artificial islands there; and has placed military installations on them. In the Middle East, Iran has trained and funded proxy forces in Lebanon, Syria, Iraq and Yemen and has pursued nuclear weapons.“The three have an important motive in common: All are dictatorships trying to generate support among those they rule through aggressive nationalism, at the expense of their neighbors,” Mandelbaum (with whom I co-wrote a book in 2011) remarked to me. “The combination of their insecurities and their ambitions has revived political and military competition among the strongest countries in the world. Indeed, the world of 2019 more closely resembles the world of the Cold War than of the 25 years after the fall of the Berlin Wall.”If this first trend requires a president who can manage strength — ours and that of Russia, China and Iran — the second trend will require a deft touch at managing weakness. We are going to see more and more weak states — like Venezuela, Libya, Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras and many in sub-Saharan Africa — either fall apart or hemorrhage lots of their people, because they are unable to manage the stresses from climate change, population explosion, ecosystem breakdowns and the rapid accelerations in globalization and technology.If you think managing strength is hard, try managing weakness — try attempting to put broken countries back together. It’s hell on wheels. But that will be a big challenge for the next president because the mass migrations of people away from these disorderly and failing states to zones of order, which is what is driving the current U.S. and European border crises, are not going away.Consider this Washington Post report last week: “The number of people taken into custody along the Mexico border jumped an additional 31 percent last month as an unprecedented mass migration of families from Central America pushes unauthorized crossings to the highest levels in a decade, according to U.S. Customs and Border Protection figures.” The story added that last month, the busiest February at the border since 2007, authorities detained 76,103 migrants, up from 58,207 in January, and it quoted Customs and Border Protection Commissioner Kevin McAleenan as saying: “The system is well beyond capacity and remains at a breaking point.”For the third trend, the next president will have to manage not only rival superpowers and disorder but also super-empowered small groups and individuals, because of how technology acceleration is putting incredibly powerful, cheap, small tools — for cyberwarfare, election hacking and financial hacking — into the hands of small units, vastly expanding their attack surfaces.These cyber tools are all getting fast, cheap and deep. That is, they can go deeper inside your company, your email, your election, your power grid or your bank account — every single day. This makes them easier to be weaponized by small units (like North Korea) and individuals so they can have outsize impacts through deep fake, deep surveillance, deep cyber theft.Which brings us back to the thesis of “The Rise and Fall of Peace on Earth.” The resurgent competition between us, China, Russia and Iran means that instead of our having their cooperation “to try to manage state failure and the technological tsunami, the three revisionists are making them worse,” Mandelbaum told me. “Russia and Iran took the lead in devastating Syria, producing a flood of refugees that has, among other things, destabilized Europe. And all three have weaponized the new technology, hacking the U.S. and Europe and, in the case of Russia, even interfering with an American election.”This means there will be even more pressure on the next president to find allies and build alliances to maintain order. Only the U.S. has the ability to organize coalitions to deter Russia, China and Iran, Mandelbaum argues. Only the U.S. has the resources and the experience to lead a global effort to try to cope with state failure. “And since much of the new technology was invented and applied here, the U.S. is in the best position to figure out how to cope with it.”Among President Trump’s greatest foreign policy weaknesses is his inability to build and maintain alliances. Few other countries want to follow him into battle. The winner of the 2020 election, whether Trump or someone else, is going to pay for the way Trump has allowed our traditional alliances to wither and has made the U.S. administration (not people) so unpopular with populations from Canada to Mexico to Europe to Asia to the Middle East that many of their leaders do not feel comfortable standing with our president, even if they are so inclined.That is not Trump’s only poisoned legacy. The other is that he shows no interest in democracy promotion, and that, too, is more important than ever, because democracies are much less prone to war. But we’re in a democracy recession now. Leaders from China to Egypt to Uganda to Turkey are all making themselves presidents for life.“The principal disturbers of the peace — Russia, China, and Iran — are all dictatorships that seek popular support, can no longer get it through economic growth, don’t have the option of getting it through democracy, and in fact fear that democratic demands and democratic forces will unseat them,” Mandelbaum said. “Their aggressive policies are designed to protect their regimes against, most of all, democracy.”So hold onto your hats: Great-power conflict is in, but U.S. democracy promotion is out. We need allies more than ever, and we have fewer than ever. And some guy in Moldova with a cellphone and a few cyber tools can now shut off the power grid in Montana.No wonder no one wants to boast being the best person to answer the White House crisis line at 3 a.m. They all prefer to let it ring and hope that it’s a wrong number.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Thomas L. Friedman is the foreign affairs Op-Ed columnist. He joined the paper in 1981, and has won three Pulitzer Prizes. He is the author of seven books, including “From Beirut to Jerusalem,” which won the National Book Award.  @tomfriedman • Facebook 

Supported byBy Andrew E. KramerMOSCOW — The chief of Russia’s armed forces endorsed on Saturday the kind of tactics used by his country to intervene abroad, repeating a philosophy of so-called hybrid war that has earned him notoriety in the West, especially among American officials who have accused Russia of election meddling in 2016.At a conference on the future of Russian military strategy, Gen. Valery V. Gerasimov, the chief of the general staff, said countries bring a blend of political, economic and military power to bear against adversaries.The speech outlined what some Western analysts consider the signature strategy of Russia under President Vladimir V. Putin — and what other experts call a simple recognition of modern war and politics.General Gerasimov said Russia’s armed forces must maintain both “classical” and “asymmetrical” potential, using jargon for the mix of combat, intelligence and propaganda tools that the Kremlin has deployed in conflicts such as Syria and Ukraine.And he cited the Syrian civil war as an example of successful Russian intervention abroad. The combination of a small expeditionary force with “information” operations had provided lessons that could be expanded to “defend and advance national interests beyond the borders of Russia,” he said.The speech was noteworthy for echoing themes General Gerasimov laid out in an article published in 2013 in The Military-Industrial Courier, a Russian army journal, and which many now see as a foreshadowing of the country’s embrace of “hybrid war” in Ukraine, where Russia has backed separatist rebels and used soldiers in unmarked uniforms to seize Crimea.Though definitions of the term vary, some analysts see a progression from the blend of subversion and propaganda used in Ukraine to the tactics later directed against Western nations, including the United States, where Russia’s military intelligence agency hacked into Democratic Party computers during the 2016 election. Russia denies interfering in the election.An American interagency report on the Russian election meddling blamed the intelligence agency, known as the G.R.U. and at least formally subordinate to General Gerasimov, for hacking the Democratic National Committee servers and releasing documents to damage the campaign of Hillary Clinton and support her opponent, Donald J. Trump.In the 2013 article, General Gerasimov wrote that there were no clear borders between war and peace in the modern world. Militaries fight in peacetime, he said, and political and economic means are deployed in war.That article prompted some Western analysts to call the Russian approach the “Gerasimov Doctrine,” though other experts object to crediting the general or the Kremlin alone.“The idea that the Russians have discovered some new art of war is wrong,” Mark Galeotti, a Russia expert at the Royal United Services Institute and the author of “Russian Political War,” said of the general’s latest speech. “This is basically the Russians trying to grapple with the modern world.”Hybrid war has long been a Western military term of art, analysts say, especially in the context of counterterrorism. The phrase has been adopted in discussion of Israel’s security and the United States’ occupation of Iraq, for instance, and in 2005 it appeared in the title of an article co-written by James N. Mattis, then an American lieutenant general and later President Trump’s secretary of defense.When discussing a blend of military, political and information operations, Russian strategists use the terms “complex approach” or “new generation war,” according to Ivan Konovalov, a military analyst and director of the Center for Studies of Strategic Trends.In both The Military-Industrial Courier article and the speech, General Gerasimov emphasized the importance of mixed tactics by blaming Russia’s adversaries for using them.“The Pentagon set about developing a new principle and strategy of military action already called a ‘Trojan horse,’” he said on Saturday. “The essence is active use of protest potential in a ‘fifth column’ in the interest of destabilizing the situation, simultaneously with airstrikes on the most important objects.”Sputnik, a Russian state news service, suggested the general’s comments were in part an analysis of the crisis in Venezuela, where Russia has accused the United States of trying to oust President Nicolás Maduro. The 2013 article expressed similar concerns, laying out ideas to counter what General Gerasimov called Western intervention in the Arab Spring uprisings of 2011.The article and speech may also have a message for rivals at home. Pavel Felgenhauer, a military analyst and columnist in Moscow for the newspaper Novaya Gazeta, said military hard-liners often promote the idea of Russia being in a limbo between war and peace because it helps them in internal government disputes, giving them greater sway over foreign policy.Promoting the idea is also consistent, he said, with using the G.R.U. to target Western countries. The message, he said, is “we don’t care what the West thinks, we are enemies.”

Supported byBy Maureen DowdOpinion ColumnistWASHINGTON — The heavens part. The light shines down. The rise in the oceans begins to slow. The world is once more bathed in the mystical glow of a messiah. Our redemption from Donald Trump is at hand.We have The One again, a New One — another lanky, bookish, handsome man with an attractive young family, a thin résumé, an exotic name, a hip affect, a rock star aura, an enticing smile, a liberal press corps ready to fluff his pillows and a frothing Fox News.Let Elizabeth Warren knock herself out with policy proposals. Let Kamala Harris be the adult in the room. Let Bernie Sanders bellow away.The magical man-boy, Beto O’Rourke, has come back from his 40 days in the desert — vlogging, contemplating, floating in and out of a funk — to share his gifts.He has given us the blessed news: “Man, I’m just born to be in it.” He told Vanity Fair that his words at a Texas campaign stop when he was trying to unseat Ted Cruz were pulled out of him “by some greater force,” musing: “Everything that I said, I was, like, watching myself, being like, How am I saying this stuff? Where is this coming from.”Annie Leibovitz advised Beto to wear a blue button-down shirt for her Vanity Fair cover shoot if he was going to run. And now we can hear, as Hillary Clinton noted sardonically about Barack Obama in 2008, “celestial choirs.”Beto floats above the fray, staying vague on nettlesome issues. The 46-year-old offers the politics of feelings.“I don’t have a team counting delegates,” he told Vanity Fair, adding, “It’s probably not the most professional thing you’ve ever heard about this, but I just feel it.”Joe Kennedy built his family’s political myth on good hair, white teeth and glossy star quality. Why shouldn’t Beto?After all, during his 2008 campaign, Obama merely went back to Chicago to see Malia perform in “The Odyssey.” Beto loved the epic so much, he thought about naming his son “Odysseus,” settling instead for “Ulysses.”Wandering alone, as Jesus, Barack and Beto did, is part of the hero’s journey defined by Joseph Campbell. Beto loves Joseph Campbell and “Star Wars,” which was inspired by Campbell’s work.The last One, about the same age when he jumped into national politics precociously aiming to usurp his elders, was also a uniter who went on an odyssey of self-discovery in New York while at Columbia.The last One also sold a cult of personality, offered himself as a symbol of modernity, sparked Oprah’s interest and had a preoccupation with being cool.Indeed, Obama told David Axelrod recently on “The Axe Files” that Beto reminded him of himself.The One anointing the New One. Joe Biden, pushed aside by Obama in the last election, was understandably irritated.Just as reporters once swooned when Obama made like Jay-Z and brushed imaginary dirt off his shoulder after a tough primary debate in Philly in 2008, reporters were entranced when O’Rourke air-drummed “Baba O’Riley” by the Who at a Whataburger drive-through after his debate with Cruz.To many, Beto’s appeal is his persona as a quasi-rebellious ’90s suburban teenager, a skateboarding punk rocker who seems to have modeled his campaign logo on the spicy ketchup logo at Whataburger.But others are less charmed. A satirical video on Twitter by skaters mocked “bad-skater Beto” as the kind of middle-school poser who “went to Zumiez and spent $27 on stickers.”In a new Reuters story, Joseph Menn reveals that while O’Rourke was still a teenager, he was a member of the Cult of the Dead Cow, a stealthy hacking group named after an old Texas slaughterhouse. A kind of Neo-lite, he used the handle “Psychedelic Warlord,” looking for free video games. (Socialist alert!)A hacker might be refreshing after a president who refers to Tim Cook as Tim Apple. Still, Menn writes, “it’s unclear whether the United States is ready for a presidential contender who, as a teenager, stole long-distance phone service for his dial-up modem, wrote a murder fantasy in which the narrator drives over children on the street, and mused about a society without money.”The 15th entry in the Democratic race is at the nexus of many tricky issues for a party desperate to oust Individual 1 from the White House.Is it better to nominate a celebrity like Obama with a slight record that cannot be targeted or someone with established credentials? Should the nominee spring from the far left, the vector brimming with electricity and fight, or is that suicidal in a national election?Can white men jump in, or is this post-#MeToo era the time when Democratic and independent women will demand a woman at the top of the ticket? Will Democratic voters longing for another Obama and the minority voters who strayed from Hillary want an African-American?Can pugilistic progressives stomach a rich kid like Beto at a time when the country is in an eat-the-rich mood? Will they tolerate candidates like Beto and Biden, who speak well of Republicans and have a history of working with them?As The Wall Street Journal reports, O’Rourke tried to please Texas Republican business leaders when he “opposed Obamacare, voted against Nancy Pelosi as the House Democratic leader and called for a raise in the Social Security eligibility age.”The fever is running high in his party. Will Beto turn out to be born for it or borne away by it?I invite you to follow me on Twitter (@MaureenDowd) and join me on Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. OpinionRichard DormentOpinionDavid LeonhardtOpinionGail Collins



      By LARRY BUCHANAN and 
    
KAREN YOURISH

MARCH 20, 2019

After more than two years of criminal indictments and steady revelations about contacts between associates of Donald J. Trump and Russia, we already know a lot about the work done by Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel investigating Russia’s interference in the 2016 election. Here are the main findings and lines of inquiry and the people involved in each.
Russian Hacking and WikiLeaks
		  As part of a complex effort to sabotage the campaign of Hillary Clinton, Donald J. Trump’s 2016 rival, Russia’s top military intelligence service hacked the computer networks of Democratic organizations and the private email account of the chairman of the Clinton campaign and released tens of thousands of stolen emails through WikiLeaks to the public, according to an indictment filed by Mr. Mueller. Only the Russians have been charged.
		
Russian Social Media Manipulation
		  The Russian government also directed a network of Internet trolls who used fake accounts on social media to manipulate potential voters and influence the election, according to the special counsel.
		
Trump Tower Moscow
		  Mr. Trump and other Trump Organization executives were involved in discussions throughout the 2016 campaign to build a Trump Tower in Moscow. During the campaign, Mr. Trump repeatedly denied having any business interests in Russia, but has since admitted that discussions took place.
		
Trump Tower Russia Meeting
		  Donald Trump Jr. arranged a meeting with a Kremlin-connected lawyer after being told that the Russian government wanted to share damaging information about Mrs. Clinton. After the meeting was uncovered by The New York Times, the Trump team pushed a false narrative about the reason for holding it.
		
Russian Contacts
		  All told, Mr. Trump and more than a dozen of his associates had more than 100 contacts with Russian nationals and WikiLeaks, or their intermediaries, during the campaign and transition. These included multiple offers of dirt on Mrs. Clinton, attempts to arrange “back-channel” meetings between Mr. Trump and President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, and private messages with WikiLeaks and other Russian fronts. At least 10 other advisers were told about these interactions but did not have any themselves.
		
Russian Sanctions
		  Several people close to Mr. Trump engaged in discussions about deals to give Russia relief from economic sanctions. Paul Manafort, Mr. Trump’s onetime campaign chairman, had repeated conversations with a Russian business associate about a plan to end a guerrilla war between Russia and Ukraine that might have led to sanctions relief. Michael D. Cohen, the president’s longtime personal lawyer, delivered a sealed proposal to the office of Michael T. Flynn, the president’s first national adviser, for the same purpose. Mr. Flynn also spoke with the Russian ambassador about sanctions (court documents show that Mr. Trump’s presidential transition team knew about these calls and coached Mr. Flynn on how to respond).
		
Other Foreign Contacts
		  Other foreign officials also reached out or offered assistance to the Trump campaign. An emissary for the leaders of two Arab nations told Mr. Trump Jr. that the princes were eager to help his father win election. An Israeli company was asked to provide a proposal for using social media manipulation to help defeat Mrs. Clinton. And an informal adviser to Mr. Trump’s team during the presidential transition attended a meeting in the Seychelles that was convened by the crown prince of the United Arab Emirates.
		
Obstruction Inquiry
		  Mr. Trump’s public and private attacks on investigations have exposed him to accusations of obstruction of justice. These include efforts to pressure the director of the F.B.I., James B. Comey, to end the bureau’s investigation into Mr. Flynn, firing Mr. Comey and Attorney General Jeff Sessions and attempting to fire Mr. Mueller.
		
Other Charges
		  Mr. Manafort and his longtime business associate, Rick Gates, were convicted of fraud and other crimes related to their work for pro-Russian Ukrainian politicians before joining the Trump campaign. Mr. Manafort and a Russian associate were also charged with witness tampering. Several others, not shown here, have been charged in spin-off investigations.
		
Michael T. Flynn
Mr. Trump’s former national security adviser pleaded guilty to lying to the F.B.I. about conversations he had with the Russian ambassador during the presidential transition.

related events
Russian Contacts
Russian Sanctions

Michael D. Cohen
Mr. Trump’s former lawyer pleaded guilty to lying to Congress about negotiations to develop a Trump Tower in Moscow during the campaign. He has also been sentenced to prison in a different investigation related to hush-money payments he made on behalf of Mr. Trump.

related events
Trump Tower Moscow
Russian Contacts
Russian Sanctions

Roger J. Stone Jr.
A longtime friend and adviser to Mr. Trump, Mr. Stone was indicted on charges of lying to Congress about his efforts to contact WikiLeaks.

related events
Russian Hacking and WikiLeaks
Russian Contacts

Paul Manafort
A longtime Republican consultant and lobbyist, Mr. Manafort served on the Trump campaign from March until August 2016, including three months as chairman. He was convicted of financial fraud and conspiracy stemming from consulting work he did in earlier years in Ukraine on behalf of pro-Russian political figures. He also had multiple contacts during the campaign with a Russian associate believed to have ties to Russian intelligence and shared private Trump campaign polling data with him. Mr. Manafort lied to the special counsel’s office after pledging to cooperate with its inquiry, a judge found.

related events
Trump Tower Russia Meeting
Russian Contacts
Russian Sanctions
Other Charges

Rick Gates
Mr. Gates, a deputy campaign chairman, was Paul Manafort’s longtime right-hand man in Ukraine. He agreed to cooperate with the special counsel inquiry after pleading guilty to financial fraud and lying to investigators.

related events
Russian Contacts
Other Foreign Contacts
Other Charges

George Papadopoulos
A former Trump campaign adviser who had multiple contacts with Russians and repeatedly told campaign officials about them. He pleaded guilty to lying to the F.B.I. about his contacts.

related events
Russian Contacts

Alex van der Zwaan
A lawyer who worked with Mr. Manafort and Mr. Gates and who pleaded guilty to lying to investigators about conversations he had with Mr. Gates over work they did together for a pro-Russian Ukrainian political party.

related events
Other Charges

Konstantin V. Kilimnik
A longtime Russian business associate of Paul Manafort who had multiple contacts with Mr. Manafort while he was the Trump campaign chairman and who received private Trump campaign polling data. He was charged with conspiring with Mr. Manafort to obstruct justice by trying to shape the accounts of prospective witnesses in Mr. Manafort’s case.

related events
Russian Contacts
Russian Sanctions
Other Charges

Richard Pinedo
A California man who sold fake bank accounts and was an unwitting participant in Russia’s scheme to influence the election.

related events
Russian Social Media Manipulation

Twelve Russian intelligence officers
Charged with hacking the computer networks of Democratic organizations and the private email account of the chairman of the Clinton campaign and then releasing tens of thousands of stolen emails through WikiLeaks to the public.

related events
Russian Hacking and WikiLeaks

Thirteen Russian nationals
Charged with manipulating social media to subvert the 2016 election and help the Trump campaign.

related events
Russian Social Media Manipulation

Donald Trump Jr.
Mr. Trump’s eldest son arranged the now-famous Russia meeting at Trump Tower. He also exchanged private messages with WikiLeaks and was aware of negotiations to develop a Trump Tower in Moscow.

related events
Trump Tower Moscow
Trump Tower Russia Meeting
Russian Contacts
Obstruction Inquiry
Other Foreign Contacts

Ivanka Trump
Michael D. Cohen said he briefed Ms. Trump and Donald Trump Jr. on the Moscow Trump Tower project during the campaign. She was also contacted by a Russian woman whose husband offered to help her father develop a separate real estate project in Moscow.

related events
Trump Tower Moscow
Russian Contacts

Jared Kushner
As a senior campaign official, Mr. Trump’s son-in-law attended the Trump Tower Russia meeting. He was also told that a campaign aide had been approached about setting up a back-channel meeting between Mr. Trump and Mr. Putin, and that Donald Trump Jr. received a private message from WikiLeaks. As a senior transition adviser, Mr. Kushner met at Trump Tower with the Russian ambassador and discussed setting up a way to communicate with Moscow during the transition. He also met with a Russian banker close to Mr. Putin in an attempt to establish a direct line of communication to the Russian president.

related events
Trump Tower Russia Meeting
Russian Contacts
Russian Sanctions

Hope Hicks
A fixture of Mr. Trump’s inner circle throughout the campaign and in the White House, Ms. Hicks was involved in the drafting of a false statement in response to questions about the 2016 Trump Tower meeting arranged by Donald Trump Jr. 

related events
Trump Tower Russia Meeting
Obstruction Inquiry

James B. Comey
Former F.B.I. director who alleged that Mr. Trump pressured him to drop the investigation into Michael T. Flynn.

related events
Obstruction Inquiry

Rod J. Rosenstein
Deputy attorney general who appointed the special counsel to investigate Russia’s election interference.

related events
Obstruction Inquiry

Robert S. Mueller III
The special counsel overseeing the investigation into Russia’s interference in the 2016 election and the possible involvement of Mr. Trump’s campaign.

related events
Obstruction Inquiry

Alan Garten
The Trump Organization’s general counsel was involved in the drafting of the misleading statement about the 2016 Trump Tower meeting arranged by Donald Trump Jr. 

related events
Trump Tower Russia Meeting

Stephen K. Bannon
Mr. Trump’s former campaign chairman and chief White House strategist emailed Roger J. Stone Jr. in October 2016 for insight into WikiLeaks’s plans to publish documents that could damage the Clinton campaign.

related events
Russian Sanctions

Rick Dearborn
A campaign adviser who was approached by a Russian intermediary about arranging a back-channel meeting between Mr. Trump and Mr. Putin.

related events
Russian Contacts

Donald F. McGahn II
The former White House counsel threatened to quit after Mr. Trump asked him to fire Mr. Mueller.

related events
Obstruction Inquiry

Jeff Sessions
Weeks after he was confirmed as attorney general, the former senator recused himself from any investigation into charges that Russia meddled in the election after revelations that he had failed to report encounters with the Russian ambassador during the campaign.

related events
Russian Contacts
Obstruction Inquiry

Carter Page
Russian intelligence operatives tried to recruit Mr. Page, a foreign policy adviser to the 2016 Trump campaign, in 2013. During the campaign, Mr. Page gave a speech in Russia and met with at least one Russian government official in Moscow. He told at least four members of the campaign about his trip.

related events
Russian Contacts

Stephen Miller
As a top adviser to the president, Mr. Miller helped draft a letter, which was never sent, that explained why the president wanted to fire James B. Comey. During the campaign, Mr. Miller was among top campaign officials whom George Papadopoulos told about his Russian contacts.

related events
Obstruction Inquiry

Sam Clovis
Mr. Clovis was among the Trump campaign officials whom George Papadopoulos told about his contacts with Russians.

related events

J. D. Gordon
Mr. Gordon met briefly with the Russian ambassador during the Republican National Convention. He also had contacts with Maria Butina and was among the Trump campaign officials who knew that Carter Page would be traveling to Russia in July 2016.

related events
Russian Contacts

Thomas P. Bossert
Mr. Trump's former chief homeland security adviser was aware of conversations about sanctions that occurred during the presidential transition between Michael T. Flynn and the Russian ambassador.

related events
Russian Sanctions

Corey Lewandowski
Mr. Trump’s first campaign manager was among the Trump campaign officials who knew that Carter Page would be traveling to Russia in July 2016. He was also told about George Papadopoulos’s contacts with Russians. In 2017, Mr. Trump asked Mr. Lewandowski to pressure Mr. Sessions to resign, but Mr. Lewandowski did not act on the request.

related events

K. T. McFarland
A senior transition official and former deputy national security adviser who was aware of conversations about sanctions that occurred during the transition between Michael T. Flynn and the Russian ambassador.

related events

Reince Priebus
A senior transition official and former White House chief of staff, Mr. Priebus was forwarded an email exchange during the transition that said Michael T. Flynn was discussing sanctions with the Russian ambassador. In a December 2017 meeting in the West Wing, Mr. Trump asked Mr. Priebus how his interview had gone with the special counsel’s investigators and whether they had been “nice.”

related events
Russian Sanctions

Sean Spicer
Former White House press secretary who was forwarded an email exchange during the transition that said Michael T. Flynn was discussing sanctions with the Russian ambassador.

related events
Russian Sanctions

Avi Berkowitz
A White House aide who works for Jared Kushner, Mr. Berkowitz met with the Russian ambassador at Mr. Kushner’s request during the presidential transition.

related events
Russian Contacts

Mark Corallo
A former spokesman for Mr. Trump’s legal team who told Mr. Mueller about a conference call with Mr. Trump and Hope Hicks in which, he said, Ms. Hicks said that emails written by Donald Trump Jr. before the Trump Tower meeting "will never get out."

related events
Obstruction Inquiry

Donald J. Trump
The president has repeatedly sought to dismiss the special counsel’s investigation as a “witch hunt.”

related events
Trump Tower Moscow
Trump Tower Russia Meeting
Russian Contacts
Obstruction Inquiry

Sarah Huckabee Sanders
Ms. Sanders, the White House press secretary, initially said the president “certainly didn’t dictate” the false statement issued by Donald Trump Jr. about the Trump Tower Russia meeting.

related events
Trump Tower Russia Meeting

Jay Sekulow
Mr. Trump’s private lawyer initially said the president was not involved in a false statement about the Trump Tower Russia meeting. Separately, Mr. Cohen has alleged that Mr. Trump's lawyers, including Mr. Sekulow, helped with Mr. Cohen's false testimony to Congress about a proposed Trump Tower project in Moscow.

related events
Trump Tower Russia Meeting

Aras Agalarov
A Russian real estate developer who co-hosted the 2013 Miss Universe pageant with Mr. Trump in Moscow. He set the June 2016 Trump Tower meeting in motion after being told by a Russian government official that Russia wanted to share damaging information about Mrs. Clinton with the Trump campaign. 

related events
Trump Tower Russia Meeting
Russian Contacts

Emin Agalarov
Aras Agalarov’s son and a Russian pop star who helped Donald Trump Jr. arrange the June 2016 Trump Tower meeting.

related events
Trump Tower Russia Meeting
Russian Contacts

Rob Goldstone
A British-born publicist who served as an intermediary between the Trump campaign and the Agalarovs.

related events
Trump Tower Russia Meeting
Russian Contacts

Sergey N. Gorkov
The head of a Russian bank who is close to Mr. Putin, Mr. Gorkov met with Jared Kushner during the transition. The bank, Vnesheconombank, is under American sanctions.

related events
Russian Contacts

Sergey I. Kislyak
The former Russian ambassador to the United States who met with multiple members of the Trump campaign and transition.

related events
Russian Contacts
Russian Sanctions

Felix H. Sater
A Russian émigré and Trump business associate who was involved in negotiations during the campaign about developing a Trump Tower in Moscow. 

related events
Trump Tower Moscow
Russian Contacts
Russian Sanctions

Maria Butina
A Russian who admitted to being involved in an organized effort to open up unofficial lines of communication between Russians and Americans in the N.R.A. and the Republican Party. She posed for a photo with Donald Trump Jr. at a 2016 dinner hosted by the N.R.A. in Louisville, Ky.

related events
Russian Contacts

Andrii V. Artemenko
A pro-Russian Ukrainian lawmaker who pushed a plan to end a guerrilla war between Russia and Ukraine that might have led to sanctions relief. Mr. Cohen and Mr. Sater were also involved.

related events
Russian Sanctions

Alexander Torshin
A former Russian government official close to Mr. Putin who made contact with the Trump campaign and appears to have been behind efforts to use an N.R.A. meeting to arrange back-channel communications between Mr. Trump and Mr. Putin.

related events
Russian Contacts

Ivan Timofeev
A Russian who said he had connections to Russia’s foreign ministry and who had repeated contacts with George Papadopoulos about setting up a meeting between the Trump campaign and Russia. 

related events
Russian Contacts

Viktor F. Vekselberg
A Russian oligarch who met with Mr. Cohen at Trump Tower. 

related events
Russian Contacts

Irakly Kaveladze
An executive at Aras Agalarov’s real estate development company who represented Mr. Agalarov at the 2016 Trump Tower meeting.

related events
Trump Tower Russia Meeting

Paul Erickson
A Republican operative who reached out to the Trump campaign about arranging a back-channel meeting between Mr. Trump and Mr. Putin.

related events
Russian Contacts

Rick Clay
An advocate for conservative Christian causes who reached out to the Trump campaign about arranging a back-channel meeting between Mr. Trump and Mr. Putin.

related events
Russian Contacts

Rinat Akhmetshin
A Russian-American lobbyist who attended the June 2016 Trump Tower meeting.

related events
Trump Tower Russia Meeting
Russian Contacts

Arkady V. Dvorkovich
A Russian deputy prime minister who met with Carter Page in Moscow and expressed strong support for Mr. Trump.

related events
Russian Contacts

Kirill Dmitriev
A Russian investor who is close to Mr. Putin and attended a secret meeting in the Seychelles that was convened by the crown prince of the United Arab Emirates.

related events
Russian Contacts

Olga Polonskaya
A Russian woman originally introduced to George Papadopoulos as the niece of Mr. Putin (she was not).

related events
Russian Contacts

Dmitry Klokov
A former Russian Olympic weight lifter who offered to help the Trump Organization develop a real estate project in Moscow.

related events
Russian Contacts

Elena Klokov
A Russian woman who reached out to Ivanka Trump on behalf of her husband, Dmitry Klokov, about helping Mr. Trump develop a real estate project in Moscow.

related events
Russian Contacts

Natalia Veselnitskaya
A Kremlin-connected lawyer who attended the June 2016 Trump Tower meeting.

related events
Trump Tower Russia Meeting
Russian Contacts

Joseph Mifsud
A London-based professor with connections in Moscow who told George Papadopoulos that Russia had “dirt” on Mrs. Clinton in the form of “thousands of emails.”

related events
Russian Contacts

Dmitri Peskov
Mr. Putin’s spokesperson who Michael D. Cohen contacted about Trump Tower Moscow.

related events
Trump Tower Moscow
Russian Contacts

Julian Assange
The founder of WikiLeaks, which released tens of thousands of Democratic emails stolen by the Russians during the 2016 election.

related events
Russian Hacking and WikiLeaks
Russian Contacts

Jerome Corsi
A conspiracy theorist and political commentator who was asked by Roger J. Stone Jr. to be an intermediary between Mr. Stone and WikiLeaks.

related events
Russian Hacking and WikiLeaks

Randy Credico
A New York comedian and former radio host who may have acted as an intermediary between Mr. Stone and WikiLeaks in 2016.

related events
Russian Hacking and WikiLeaks

Mohammed bin Zayed Al-Nahyan
The crown prince of Abu Dhabi and de facto ruler of the United Arab Emirates who convened a January 2017 meeting in the Seychelles that brought together a Russian investor close to Mr. Putin and Erik D. Prince.

related events
Other Foreign Contacts

Erik D. Prince
The founder of Blackwater and an informal Trump adviser who arranged a meeting in August 2016 between Donald Trump Jr., George Nader and Joel Zamel. He also attended a meeting in the Seychelles that was convened by the crown prince of the United Arab Emirates. He is the brother of Betsy DeVos, Mr. Trump’s education secretary.

related events
Russian Contacts
Other Foreign Contacts

George Nader
A Lebanese-American businessman who told Donald Trump Jr. that the leaders of Saudi Arabia and the U.A.E. wanted to help his father win the election. He is cooperating with the special counsel.

related events
Other Foreign Contacts

Joel Zamel
The owner of an Israeli firm that put together a proposal for the Trump campaign to manipulate social media. 

related events
Other Foreign Contacts

Mohammed bin Salman
Crown prince of Saudi Arabia who was among the Arab leaders George Nader said wanted to help the Trump campaign.

related events
Other Foreign Contacts


Supported byLet us help you start your day.By Alisha Haridasani Gupta(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning. New Zealand honors victims of the Christchurch terrorist attack, confusion around Brexit thickens and digital mercenaries create a new global battleground. Here’s the latest: The Muslim call to prayer will be broadcast live across the country today, followed by a two-minute silence to honor the victims of the terrorist attack in Christchurch last week.Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern will attend a prayer service near Al Noor Mosque, one of the two mosques where a gunman killed 50 people.Yesterday: Ms. Ardern announced a national ban on military-style semiautomatic weapons and all high-capacity ammunition magazines, a measure that could sail through Parliament.She cited the gun controls Australia set in motion after a mass shooting in 1996: a mix of buybacks, registration and outright bans that severely reduced mass shootings.A mistake: The first murder charge against the suspected gunman named a victim who survived. The charge sheet was to be corrected, and legal experts said the prosecution would not be impeded.From the archives: Time and again, variants of the AK-47 have been used to kill scores of people and traumatize many more. In 2016, we looked at how the AK-47 became one of the world’s most abundant weapons.While families were still mourning their loved ones killed in the Lion Air crash in October, they were herded into a hotel conference room and told to sign a document to receive a government-mandated compensation of 1.3 billion rupiah, about $91,600, for loss of life.But the payment came with conditions. Many say they weren’t allowed time to study the document and didn’t know then that it included a clause prohibiting them from suing the carrier, its financial backers or Boeing.Those conditions are now being questioned by legal experts. An Indonesian aviation act from 2011 specifies that heirs who receive government-mandated payments shouldn’t have limits on their right to sue the carrier or other entities involved.Boeing: The two doomed 737 Max jets lacked optional safety features that Boeing sold separately at an additional cost. Now, the aircraft manufacturer is making those features standard as part of a fix to get the planes in the air again.Ethiopian Airlines: Two months before Flight 302 crashed, the carrier had set up a simulator to teach pilots how to fly the new Boeing 737 Max 8 jet but the pilot on that ill-fated flight never used it. The European Union is considering pushing back Britain’s withdrawal from the bloc, on the condition that British lawmakers endorse Prime Minister Theresa May’s unpopular plan. Discussions in Brussels about the new deadline are still ongoing. Follow our correspondent, Stephen Castle, on Twitter for the latest updates. But an extension would only offer a flimsy reprieve: President Emmanuel Macron of France warned that if Parliament didn’t support Mrs. May’s withdrawal agreement next week, the country would be headed for a no-deal exit. Thousands of personnel are expected to begin preparing for that dreaded outcome on Monday.Analysis: Amid the thickening fog of confusion, Mrs. May had one message for the country: blame Parliament.“So far Parliament has done everything possible to avoid making a choice,” the frustrated prime minister said in a speech that critics described as “toxic” and dangerous. Small countries, corporations and even wealthy individuals all have a new weapon at their disposal: privatized spying through companies that hire former intelligence operatives from around the world.This growing and barely-governed world of digital combat has enabled governments not only to hack terrorist groups and drug cartels but is also being used for darker impulses, like targeting activists and journalists, with the sophistication that was once the preserve of major world powers.The F.B.I. is now investigating one of these firms, DarkMatter, after a former N.S.A. hacker working there grew concerned about its activities and contacted the F.B.I, a twist that reflects the murky new industry.Takeaway: The rapid expansion of these private spying firms has prompted concerns about a dangerous and chaotic future where even governments with small budgets can wield immense damage.How we know: Our monthslong investigation into the secret world of this high-tech battleground was based on interviews with current and former hackers for governments and private companies, as well as a review of documents. Nirav Modi: The Indian jewelry designer to the stars was arrested in London in connection with a nearly $3 billion bank fraud in India. A judge denied him bail while India’s governing Bharatiya Janata Party immediately turned the news into campaign fodder, claiming credit for the arrest.Israel: President Trump said the U.S. should recognize Israel’s authority over the Golan Heights, which the country seized from Syria in 1967 and has since become one of the world’s most disputed territories. The president’s announcement, in a Twitter post, marks a significant shift in decades-long American policy. China: An explosion at a chemical plant in the eastern province of Jiangsu killed at least six people and injured 30 others, officials said. The plant had been flagged for over a dozen safety problems after a government inspection last year.South Korea: Two men were arrested, accused of setting up hidden cameras in hair dryer holders, satellite boxes and electrical sockets at 30 motels across the country and streaming the “intimate private activities” of 1,600 unsuspecting guests, the latest in a wave of voyeuristic spycam crimes known as molka.Britain: The police and counterterrorism officials are investigating attacks on four mosques in the city of Birmingham, which is home to one of the country’s biggest Muslim communities.Asylum dispute: The British Home Office cited biblical verses about vengeance to deny asylum to an Iranian who said he had converted from Islam to Christianity because it was a “peaceful” religion.Netherlands: Prosecutors said they planned to bring terrorism charges against a man accused of killing three people on a tram in the city of Utrecht this week, as well as multiple counts of murder or manslaughter.Afghanistan: In the city of Mazar-i-Sharif, a power struggle between President Ashraf Ghani and a regional strongman cast a chill on the normally rollicking celebrations of Persian New Year.Hoi An: The coastal Vietnamese city offers endless wonders, including ancient wooden merchant houses, ornate temples to a vibrant gastronomic scene.In case you missed it: The report on the special counsel’s investigation into Russian influence in the 2016 presidential election is expected soon. Here’s what we know so far.Amsterdam: The authorities announced a number of measures to manage tourism, including a ban on guided tours of the city’s notorious red-light district, starting next year.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Tahini isn’t just for hummus! Try it in an earthy dressing to drizzle on roasted butternut squash bread salad.Readers recommended ways to shrink your plastic footprint: Reuse rather than toss plastic cutlery, keep a coffee mug and a water bottle at your desk, and find new uses for yogurt containers, like painting or composting.We also have a checklist to help you avoid screen-share disasters, and the cautionary tale of an extreme example.What do lichens and politics have in common?As you may remember from chemistry class in school, a litmus test determines a solution’s relative acidity. But the phrase is also used metaphorically to refer to a character-defining political issue, and it has been popping up in coverage of the race for the Democratic presidential nomination.The chemical test, in use since the Middle Ages, employs a dye derived from lichens to determine whether a solution is more acidic or more alkaline.The phrase developed its political connotation in the 20th century. It appeared in The New York Times at least as early at 1950, when it described NATO and the Marshall Plan as “the litmus test for distinguishing between Communists and supporters of the United States.”This year, “litmus test” has appeared in The Times to refer to, among other things, marijuana legalization, the proposed border wall and universal health care.Chris Stanford, on the briefings team, wrote today’s Back Story.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.An earlier version of this briefing referred incorrectly to a litmus test. The test involves a dye derived from lichens, not moss.Alisha Haridasani Gupta writes the Morning Briefing.  @alisha__g 

Supported byGood Friday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today._____________________• The Senate voted to overturn President Trump’s national emergency declaration at the southwest border, delivering a bipartisan rebuke for what lawmakers in both parties deemed executive overreach. The 59-41 vote on the House-passed measure sets up the first veto of Mr. Trump’s presidency.• House Republicans joined Democrats to demand that the Justice Department publicly release the full findings of Robert Mueller’s investigation into Russia’s interference in the 2016 election and the possible involvement of Mr. Trump’s campaign.• Three votes in Congress this week — rebuking Mr. Trump over Saudi Arabia, blocking his national emergency declaration and demanding a public release of the Mueller report — demonstrated a newfound willingness among some of Mr. Trump’s Republican allies to stand up to him.• Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin has been personally pushing China to give the American film industry greater access to its markets. That has raised ethical questions, given his ties to Hollywood.• Mr. Mnuchin signaled that he would block a congressional request to obtain Mr. Trump’s tax returns on privacy grounds, setting up a potential legal battle if Democrats follow through.• New evidence suggests that Russian spies used networks run by Aleksej Gubarev, a tech entrepreneur, to hack the Democratic Party in 2016 — much as the so-called Steele dossier, which purported to detail Russian interference in the election, alleged.• Facing billions of dollars in cleanup costs, the Pentagon is pushing the Trump administration to adopt a weaker standard for groundwater pollution caused by chemicals that have commonly been used at military bases.• Afghanistan’s national security adviser accused the American special envoy of seeking personal benefit by sidelining the Afghan government in peace talks with the Taliban, “increasing the legitimacy of the Taliban” and “decreasing the legitimacy of the Afghan government.”_____________________Today’s On Politics briefing was compiled by Isabella Grullón Paz in New York.Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox.Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.

Supported byThe Russia panic shows us how a paranoid style can take root in the heart of the American establishment.By Ross DouthatOpinion ColumnistOver the last three years, since Brexit and the Trumpening and the general rise of disreputable forces in Western politics, there has been a steadily boiling elite panic about the power of the paranoid fringe, the mainstreaming of conspiracy theories, the pull of fake news and the danger of alternative realities.And yet over that same period, a good many members of the opposition to Donald Trump — a mix of serious journalists, cable television hosts, pop culture personalities, erstwhile government officials, professional activists and politicians — have been invested in what appears to be exactly the kind of conspiracy-laced alternative reality that they believed themselves to be resisting.With the apparent “no collusion” conclusion to the Robert Mueller investigation, there will now be a retreat from this alternative reality to more defensible terrain — the terrain where Trump is a sordid figure who admires despots and surrounded himself with hacks and two-bit crooks while his campaign was buoyed by a foreign power’s hack of his opponent.All of this is still true, in the same way that once the W.M.D. and Qaeda connections turned out to be illusory, Saddam Hussein was still a wicked dictator whose reign deserved to end. But as with the Iraq war, what has been sold, and often fervently believed, about l’affaire Russe has been something far more sweeping — a story about active collaboration and tacit treason and the subjection of United States policymaking to Vladimir Putin’s purposes, a story where the trail of kompromat and collusion supposedly went back decades, a story that was supposed to end with indictments in Trump’s inner circle, if not the jailing of the man himself.I’m borrowing the parallel to the Iraq debate from Matt Taibbi, the left-wing muckraker and flamethrower, whose splenetic denunciation this weekend of the media’s Russia coverage declared that as “a purely journalistic failure … W.M.D. was a pimple compared to Russiagate.”Like many of Taibbi’s claims over the years, this one seems overdrawn. Yes, the most extreme forms of the collusion narrative were always exceedingly unlikely, but the combination of a real Russian crime and a lot of lying and guilty-seeming behavior by Trump and his hangers-on made a certain amount of speculation inevitable and reasonable. Yes, the mainstream press gave too much credence to the Steele dossier and rushed to publish too quickly on seemingly incriminating stories. But as long as you got news from somewhere other than Rachel Maddow the case for skepticism was amply available as well. And — as Taibbi concedes — the various Russiagate conspiracy theories didn’t actually lead us into a shooting war with Russia, whereas the Iraq debate gave us a true foreign policy disaster, not just a strange cultural obsession with a special prosecutor’s work.But the parallel is still useful, because both the march to war with Iraq and the Russia panic show us the ways in which a politics of paranoia can manifest itself not just on the far-left and far-right fringes but in the very heart of the American establishment.In both cases, the exaggerated fear of Saddam Hussein’s arsenal and terrorism ties and the exaggerated fear of Russian capacities and influence, the truest believers belonged to the center-right and center-left — neoconservatives and hawkish liberals in the Iraq case, and an alliance of center-left pundits, overeager reporters, national security figures and NeverTrump Republicans in the case of Russiagate.And in both cases the strongest skepticism came not just from partisans (Trump-defending Republicans with Russia, Bush-hating Democrats with Iraq) but also from the ideological fringes, both further left and further right. The Iraq war was fiercely opposed by paleoconservatives and antiwar libertarians as well as by the antiwar left, and the strongest skeptics of the Russiagate narrative have been left-wing journalists — Taibbi, Glenn Greenwald, Michael Tracey and others.This pattern points to the essential difference between paranoias of the fringes and what Reason’s Jesse Walker once called “the paranoid center.” Because the center believes in the basic goodness of American and Western institutions, the basic wisdom and patriotism of their personnel, its threat matrix is always attuned to Great Enemies outside and radicals within, and its greatest fears tend to involve the two groups working together — whether that means Middle Eastern dictators and Islamist sleeper cells after Sept. 11 or the grand alliance of Putinists and homegrown white nationalists that’s blamed for Donald Trump.Meanwhile the extremes, in different but sometimes overlapping ways, are much more skeptical about American institutions, much more “unpatriotic” in the way that David Frum once dismissed right-wing critics of the Iraq war, and thus much more likely to be skeptical of any narrative that asks you to simply trust the wisdom and good intentions of, say, figures like James Comey and John Brennan.This gives both the far left and the far right an advantage when it comes to seeing through the paranoias of the center — even as both are tempted toward paranoias that locate all the evils of the world within the establishment, in the interlocking directorates of Washington and Wall Street or the military-industrial complex or the Brussels-Berlin axis.Neither form of paranoia is necessarily worse or better than the other — and neither, it should be stressed, is always wrong. The paranoid center tends to take real threats and then inflate them, rather than inventing them ex nihilo; the paranoid fringes tend to identify real establishment failures and corruptions but then over-imagine conspiracies and puppet masters.But the paranoid center generally has a power that the fringes lack — both the formal power of institutions and the cultural power to set narratives and declare the boundaries of legitimate debate. And this can make centrist paranoia more dangerous and more easily disguised.At the same time, the center still believes in authority figures in a way that the fringes don’t. So one might hope, in this specific case, that having an establishment figure like Robert Mueller rendering a skeptical verdict will suffice to put the more baroque Trump-Russia conspiracies to rest … or at least to banish them from cable and newsprint, and back to the extremely long Twitter threads where they first flourished, and ultimately belong.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTOpinion) and Instagram, join the Facebook political discussion group, Voting While Female.Ross Douthat has been an Opinion columnist for The Times since 2009. He is the author of several books, most recently, “To Change the Church: Pope Francis and the Future of Catholicism.”
You can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT You can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT 

Supported byLet us help you start your day. By Penn Bullock(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning. The E.U. gives its terms for postponing Brexit, digital mercenaries are open for business, and waters recede in Mozambique. Here’s the latest: Turning down terms requested by Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain, E.U. leaders on Thursday agreed to extend the deadline for Britain’s looming March 29 exit from the bloc to May 22 if next week Mrs. May can persuade lawmakers in Parliament to come around to her plan for leaving, which they have roundly rejected twice. If she cannot persuade lawmakers to accept her plan, Mrs. May will get a shorter delay in exiting the E.U. — until April 12. Mrs. May accepted the terms. And Britain could stay in the bloc much longer if it decided it needs more time for a bigger rethink. If Britain were to get the longer delay, it would have to take part in European Parliament elections in May. What’s next? In a news conference after the E.U.’s decision, Mrs. May seemed to rule out a long delay, arguing that it would be “absurd” for British voters to participate in E.U. elections. She also said she would not consider revoking Brexit. The options seemed to be dwindling to Mrs. May’s plan; a vote on a so-called soft Brexit that would retain close ties to the E.U.; or crashing out of the bloc without a deal. Follow our correspondent Stephen Castle on Twitter for the latest updates.Word of warning: In a rare joint statement, the Confederation of British Industry and the Trades Union Congress said that a no-deal Brexit “would be felt by generations to come” and called the current situation “a national emergency,” with the risk of that outcome soaring.While families were still mourning their loved ones killed off Indonesia in the Lion Air plane crash in October, they were herded into a hotel conference room and told to sign a document to receive a government-mandated compensation of 1.3 billion rupiah, about $91,600, for loss of life.But the payment came with conditions. Many say they weren’t allowed time to study the document and didn’t know it included a clause prohibiting them from suing the carrier, its financial backers or Boeing.Those conditions are now being questioned by legal experts. An Indonesian aviation act from 2011 specifies that heirs who receive government-mandated payments shouldn’t have limits on their right to sue the carrier or other entities involved.Boeing: The Boeing model, a 737 Max 8, also crashed in Ethiopia this month. The two doomed jets lacked optional safety features that Boeing sold separately at an additional cost. Now the aircraft manufacturer is making one of those features standard as part of a fix to get the planes into the air again.Small countries, corporations and even wealthy individuals all have a new weapon at their disposal: privatized spying through companies that hire former intelligence operatives from around the world.This growing and barely governed world of digital combat has enabled governments to hack terrorist groups and drug cartels, but is also being used for more sinister impulses, like targeting activists and journalists, with the sophistication that was once the preserve of major world powers.The F.B.I. is now investigating one of these firms, DarkMatter, after a former N.S.A. hacker working there grew concerned about its activities, a twist that reflects the murky new industry.Takeaway: The rapid expansion of these private spying companies has prompted concerns about a dangerous and chaotic future in which even governments with small budgets can inflict immense damage.How we know: Our monthslong investigation into the secret world of this high-tech battleground was based on interviews with current and former hackers for governments and private companies, as well as a review of documents.With the waters from Cyclone Idai starting to recede, those staggered in its wake were trying to take full stock of its effects. Mozambique’s death toll had risen to more than 200; 139 were reportedly killed in Zimbabwe, and another 56 in Malawi. Hundreds of thousands of people in areas that were already very poor have been displaced. But there was good news. Waters were said to be retreating “quickly,” allowing recovery workers to reach communities that had been cut off. Impact: Many villagers in Mozambique work in machambas — farm fields handed down from the nation’s former colonial power, Portugal — and many are subsistence farmers. Homes, clothes and crops crucial to livelihoods have vanished. Aid groups estimate that 90 percent of Beira, a port city with about a half-million people, was destroyed.How to help: Here are some of the aid organizations delivering relief.Israel: President Trump said the U.S. should recognize Israel’s authority over the Golan Heights, which the country seized from Syria in 1967 and has since become one of the world’s most disputed territories. The president’s announcement on Twitter points to a significant shift in decades-long American policy.Asylum dispute: The Home Office in Britain, which is responsible for handling immigration, cited biblical verses about vengeance to deny asylum to an Iranian man who said he had converted from Islam to Christianity because it was a “peaceful” religion.Netherlands: Dutch prosecutors said they would bring terrorism charges against a man suspected of killing three people on a tram in Utrecht, in addition to multiple counts of murder or manslaughter. The police said they were still investigating the motives. One other man remained in custody in connection with the attack. U.S. flooding: Twenty-five states are at serious risk of flooding this spring, federal scientists said, with Nebraska and other Midwestern states already reeling from record-breaking late-winter floods.Britain: The police and counterterrorism officials are investigating vandalism at five mosques in Birmingham, home to one of the country’s biggest Muslim populations. New Zealand: At least two people have been charged with sharing video of the Christchurch mosque attacks that the gunman broadcast via social media; a law forbids dissemination or possession of material depicting extreme violence and terrorism. Others could face related charges under a human rights law that forbids incitement of racial disharmony. Nirav Modi: The Indian jewelry designer to the stars was arrested in London in connection with a nearly $3 billion bank fraud in India. India’s governing Bharatiya Janata Party immediately turned the news into campaign fodder, claiming credit for the arrest.Kurt Vonnegut: Published 50 years ago this month, Vonnegut’s “Slaughterhouse-Five” made the 47-year-old writer a star, but it was also an act of self-therapy by a man who had what now would probably be considered PTSD after the bombing of Dresden, Germany. We took a look back on the countercultural classicAmsterdam: The authorities announced several measures to manage tourism, including a ban on guided tours of the city’s notorious red-light district, starting next year.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Tahini isn’t just for hummus. Try it in an earthy dressing to drizzle on roasted butternut squash bread salad.Readers recommended ways to shrink your plastic footprint: Reuse rather than toss plastic cutlery, keep a coffee mug and a water bottle at your desk, and find new uses for yogurt containers, like painting or composting.We also have a checklist to help you avoid screen-share disasters, and the cautionary tale of an extreme example.What do lichens and politics have in common?As you may remember from chemistry class, a litmus test determines a solution’s relative acidity. But the phrase is also used metaphorically to refer to a character-defining political issue, and it has been popping up in coverage of the race for the Democratic presidential nomination.The chemical test, in use since the Middle Ages, employs a dye derived from lichens to determine whether a solution is more acidic or alkaline.The phrase, which developed its political connotation in the 20th century, appeared in The New York Times at least as early as 1950, when it described NATO and the Marshall Plan as “the litmus test for distinguishing between Communists and supporters of the United States.”This year, “litmus test” has appeared in The Times to refer to marijuana legalization, the proposed border wall and universal health care.Chris Stanford, on the briefings team, wrote today’s Back Story.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.An earlier version of this briefing referred incorrectly to a litmus test. The test involves a dye derived from lichens, not moss.

Supported byBy Charlie SavageWASHINGTON — Chelsea Manning, the former Army intelligence analyst convicted in 2013 of leaking archives of secret military and diplomatic documents to WikiLeaks, revealed in an interview that she had been subpoenaed to testify before a grand jury — and vowed to fight it.The subpoena does not say what prosecutors intend to ask her about. But it was issued in the Eastern District of Virginia and comes after prosecutors inadvertently disclosed in November that Julian Assange, the founder of WikiLeaks, has been charged under seal in that district.Ms. Manning, who provided a copy of the subpoena to The New York Times, said that her legal team would file a motion on Friday to quash it, arguing that it would violate her constitutional rights to force her to appear. She declined to say whether she would cooperate if that failed.“Given what is going on, I am opposing this,” she said. “I want to be very forthright I have been subpoenaed. I don’t know the parameters of the subpoena apart from that I am expected to appear. I don’t know what I’m going to be asked.”Ms. Manning said she had retained Moira Meltzer-Cohen, a New York attorney, to represent her in fighting the subpoena. Her website lists grand-jury representation as a specialty, saying: “We will work to quash the subpoena on all available grounds, assist you in identifying lawful ways to resist the subpoena, and work to prevent a contempt finding in the event that you refuse to testify.”Mr. Assange has been living for years in the Ecuadorean Embassy in London to avoid arrest. It has not been clear what the sealed charge or charges relate to, but prosecuting him for publishing government secrets would raise novel issues about the limits of First Amendment press freedoms.Joshua Stueve, a spokesman for the office of the United States attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia, declined to comment. But there were multiple reasons to believe that the subpoena is related to the investigation of Mr. Assange.Among them, the subpoena was requested by Gordon D. Kromberg, an assistant United States attorney in the Eastern District. After an inadvertent court filing revealed that Mr. Assange has been charged under seal, it was Mr. Kromberg who successfully argued before a judge that any such charges remain a secret and should not be unsealed.Moreover, Ms. Manning said, Mr. Kromberg has told her lawyers in vague terms that prosecutors wanted to talk to her about her past statements. During her court-martial, Ms. Manning delivered a lengthy statement about how she came to copy archives of secret documents and send them to WikiLeaks, including her online interactions with someone who was likely Mr. Assange.“It’s disappointing but not surprising that the government is continuing to pursue criminal charges against Julian Assange, apparently for his role in uncovering and providing the public truthful information about matters of great public interest,” said Barry Pollack, a lawyer for Mr. Assange.In recent years, Mr. Assange and WikiLeaks have become notorious for their role in disseminating Democratic emails stolen by Russian hackers as part of the Russian government’s covert efforts to damage the 2016 Democratic presidential nominee, Hillary Clinton, and help Donald J. Trump win.The antisecrecy group, however, had previously vaulted to fame by publishing archives of classified documents — including logs of significant events in the Afghanistan and Iraq wars and diplomatic cables — that revealed many things about what was secretly happening in the world. All of those initial files, it eventually emerged, had been provided by Ms. Manning.In 2017, WikiLeaks published documents about C.I.A. hacking tools. A software engineer, Joshua A. Schulte, has been charged with that leak.After Ms. Manning’s leaks, the Obama administration had considered trying to indict Mr. Assange. But while it has become common to prosecute officials under the Espionage Act for leaking files, using it against someone who merely received and published leaked files raised fears about chilling investigative reporting.The Obama legal team eventually shelved the idea. But the Trump legal team moved forward with developing a sealed criminal complaint against Mr. Assange — for something — last summer, providing a potential basis to seek his extradition were he to emerge from the embassy.The subpoena to Ms. Manning, dated Jan. 22, says that she was ordered to appear on Feb. 5 before a grand jury at the federal courthouse in Alexandria, Va. But she said that date got pushed back, and she is now supposed to testify on March 5.During her court-martial, Ms. Manning took  responsibility for her actions and said that Mr. Assange had not directed them.“No one associated with W.L.O.” — an abbreviation she used to refer to the WikiLeaks organization — “pressured me into sending any more information,” she said at the time. “I take full responsibility.”Because that account would seemingly be helpful to the defense, she said she wondered if prosecutors wanted to try to get her to back away from it. She would not do so, she insisted, while criticizing the secrecy that surrounds grand jury proceedings.“I am not going to contribute to a process that I feel is dangerous and could potentially place me in a position where I am forced to backtrack on the truth,” she said.Follow Charlie Savage on Twitter: @charlie_savage.

Supported byThe special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, has already secured several convictions or guilty pleas as a result of his inquiry. Here are some of his most prominent targets.By Scott DoddThe investigation of Robert S. Mueller III, who submitted his report to the Justice Department on Friday, has already revealed a range of events related to Russian interference in the 2016 election and produced a series of high-profile indictments. Six people connected to President Trump have been charged by the special counsel with an array of crimes, including financial fraud and lying to Congress and investigators. Five have been convicted or pleaded guilty. Twenty-eight others, including 26 Russians, also face charges.Our videos tell you what you need to know about three of the most prominent Trump associates who have been charged or convicted as a result of the Mueller investigation.A longtime Republican consultant and lobbyist, Mr. Manafort served on the Trump campaign from March until August 2016, including three months as chairman. He was convicted of financial fraud and conspiracy in connection with consulting work on behalf of pro-Russian political figures in Ukraine and was sentenced to a total of seven and a half years in prison. The Manhattan district attorney has also filed more than a dozen state criminal charges, including mortgage fraud, against Mr. Manafort. If convicted on those charges, Mr. Manafort could remain behind bars even if the president decides to pardon him for his federal crimes. Convictions for state crimes are not subject to presidential pardons.Mr. Trump’s former lawyer and fixer pleaded guilty to lying to Congress about negotiations to develop a Trump Tower in Moscow during the campaign. He has also been sentenced to prison in a different investigation related to hush-money payments he made on behalf of Mr. Trump. In February testimony to Congress, he called Mr. Trump a “con man” and a “cheat.”A longtime friend and adviser to Mr. Trump, Mr. Stone was indicted on charges of lying to Congress about his efforts to contact WikiLeaks. According to the charges filed by the special counsel’s office, a top Trump campaign official had dispatched Mr. Stone to get information from WikiLeaks about thousands of hacked Democratic emails stolen by Russians. In late January, Mr. Stone was arrested in a pre-dawn F.B.I. raid at his home in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. Later, outside the courthouse, he vowed to beat what he called politically motivated charges.Scott Dodd is a senior staff editor based in New York. He was previously a reporter for newspapers in Pennsylvania and North Carolina and an editor and contributor to environmental and science publications.  @scottdodd 

Supported byBy Liam StackA well-known Florida surgeon who specializes in transgender health care has resigned from his position at the University of Miami amid an uproar over pictures he posted on Instagram that showed surgical procedures and patients’ genitals alongside captions and hashtags that mocked transgender people and Asians.The surgeon, Dr. Christopher Salgado, 50, worked at the L.G.B.T.Q. Center for Wellness, Gender and Sexual Health at the University of Miami Health System until last month. Interspersed with photos of himself smiling with friends and colleagues, he posted images and text on his Instagram account, @sexsurgeon, that many people found disturbing. He deleted the account last month.One post showed a CT scan of a patient with a sex toy in his rectum next to a photograph of a surgeon holding the toy after it had been retrieved, while the patient lay on a nearby table with his legs in the air. Another post showed human tissue molded into the shape of a heart alongside the message, “There are many ways to show your LOVE.” At least one other post had hashtags mocking Asian men’s genitals.In an emotional interview with The New York Times on Wednesday, Dr. Salgado defended the posts. But he said many of them had been misunderstood and he claimed not to have written many of the hashtags, which he said he suspected were the work of hackers. He said he regretted joining Instagram a few months ago at the urging of a friend.“It was a bad decision to even open an Instagram account, looking at it now,” he said. “The purpose really was to be educational with it, but it went awry.”Dr. Salgado said he deleted his account on Feb. 16, after complaints from a user who he suspects tipped off L.G.B.T. news outlets to his posts. That user also complained to the university, he said, and he was told that he would be suspended while an investigation was conducted.He thought administrators had prejudged him, he said, so he resigned via email.Last week, the online magazine Trans Advocate published the first article about the doctor’s social media activity. The magazine reported that his Instagram posts had been shared in several Facebook groups devoted to transgender medical care and that people quickly became alarmed by the graphic images and mocking captions.“One expects a certain level of professionalism and decorum from medical professionals, and it’s hard to imagine what Salgado was thinking when he made these posts,” wrote Noah Adams, the author of the Trans Advocate piece.A petition demanding action from the American College of Surgeons and the Florida Board of Medicine was soon posted online. A spokesman for the Florida Department of Health said the agency could not comment on a practitioner until 10 days after probable cause of wrongdoing was found. The American College of Surgeons said that it was not a national governing body for American surgeons and that many surgeons, including Dr. Salgado, are not members.“Beyond Dr. Salgado’s blatant disrespect for trans people, his public vulgarity, lack of professionalism, and questionable ethics around patient privacy must be immediately addressed,” the petitioners wrote.Dr. Salgado defended himself on Wednesday, saying that he had “devoted a lot of time to this patient population.” He said he could now see that some of his posts were in poor taste, but emphasized that his goal had been to raise awareness.“Yeah, these are patients’ genitals, but it was teaching,” he said. “It was basically educational: This is how we do this transformation. I felt like it really was educational.”The doctor said he did not write some of the hashtags, including some that were sexually graphic. He said that he suspected hackers’ involvement and that he had received an email (which he ignored and then deleted) from Instagram last month warning that someone had logged into his account from Turkey.He added that some of the posts had been misunderstood. Some pictures, he said, were uncredited images from other sources that had been mistakenly attributed to him, including the picture of the sex toy. Others, like the heart-shaped human tissue, had been misconstrued by nonmedical audiences, he said.“That post was a dermal thigh graft, but they said it was a penis,” he said, referring to other news articles about his posts. “I probably put the hashtag penis on it, but it wasn’t a penis. It was a specimen.”But he acknowledged that he did write some of the inflammatory hashtags, including several about Asian men beneath an image explaining the medical condition of micropenis.“I put that there were options for fixing micropenis, then I put the hashtag Asian penis,” he said. “That was probably in poor taste, but it was mine.”The doctor said he thought his posts did not violate anyone’s privacy because patients at the university hospital give their consent for non-identifying pictures to be used in publications, news media and conference presentations. A university spokeswoman did not respond to a message on Wednesday asking to confirm its policy.“I don’t think any of that even applies because there are no patient identifiers, so no one is going to come and say, ‘Oh that is my neo-clitoris,’” Dr. Salgado said, using the term for a surgically constructed clitoris.He added: “I was using no patient identifiers and no hospital identifiers, so you can’t tell who the patients are, what the hospitals are. You can’t even tell who is who.”He thought the hashtags were his downfall, he said.“The hashtags were what people found the most offensive,” Dr. Salgado said. “It doesn’t seem like it is related to the content that much because it was meant to be educational. But once the hashtags were added it became different.”Lisa Worley, a spokeswoman for the University of Miami Health System, confirmed in a statement that the university no longer employed Dr. Salgado. She focused on the language used on his Instagram page and did not mention any potential privacy concerns.“The University of Miami is committed to promoting and supporting diversity in its students, faculty, and staff and finds any transphobic comments unacceptable,” she said. “As health care providers, we continue to have a team of experts dedicated to delivering the full continuum of care for gender reassignment patients.”

Supported byBy Laura M. HolsonJune 23, 2018, was a momentous day in the online life of Laura Pittenger, a New York playwright with roughly 1,200 Twitter followers. That was when the actor John Cusack, who has more than 1.6 million followers, retweeted her and followed her back.Ms. Pittenger was happy to have a celebrity follower. Then came the anxiety.“Honestly, I had a moment of paralysis,” Ms. Pittenger said. “I thought, ‘Why would he follow me?’ I was basically a nervous wreck that he was following me at all.”Mr. Cusack, whose three-decade career has included starring roles in “Say Anything,” “High Fidelity” and “Hot Tub Time Machine,” followed Ms. Pittenger after she said, in a tweet, that the two of them shared a fondness for the antiwar activist Daniel Berrigan. Mr. Cusack had used a Berrigan quotation in his Twitter bio, Ms. Pittenger noted, and she had quoted the same line on her Facebook page.Solidarity ;) https://t.co/U7quPfxWjHBut a relationship that started sweetly came to an abrupt end on Feb. 7, when Mr. Cusack posted a tweet critical of Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Democrat of New York, and Ms. Pittenger replied in defense of the congresswoman.Within hours, Ms. Pittenger said, Mr. Cusack blocked her, leaving her confused.“He followed me for no reason and he blocked me for no reason,” she said. “I’m not going to campaign to get him back.”When asked about what had happened, Mr. Cusack said he did not recall blocking Ms. Pittenger.“I wouldn’t go out of my way to block someone who knew of Daniel Berrigan,” he said.He explained that Twitter bots had swarmed his account, as they do from time to time, attacking him for his political views. “They say, ‘You stink,’” he said. “‘Your movies stink.’ ‘You are a Communist.’”He added that he must have nixed Ms. Pittenger when he went on a blocking spree meant to purge the bots.“Sometimes people get swept up in that,” Mr. Cusack said.Some people make sport of wrangling celebrity followers. In a podcast interview, Naomi Fry, a writer for The New Yorker, described her successful attempt to get the singer John Mayer to follow her on Twitter. “I begged and I begged and I begged,” she told the hosts of the “Public Announcement” podcast. “He heard the clarion call.”Celebrities, for their part, have been known to unilaterally pluck followers from obscurity. In 2010, Conan O’Brien announced that he would follow only one person on Twitter, Sarah Killen, then a 19-year-old student from Michigan. “It’s totally nuts,” Ms. Killen said at the time.Nine years later, she remains the sole follow for Mr. O’Brien, who has roughly 29 million followers, and she now has nearly 415,000 Twitter followers of her own.It’s not just a Twitter phenomenon: celebrities have caused users of Instagram and Facebook to swoon from an unexpected follow too. While most people welcome having a famous follower, the online relationship between those with disparate levels of social-media status can lead to a feeling of self-consciousness in the followee.Meryl Cooper, an author and publicist, said she thinks frequently of her most notable follower, Barack Obama, who has more than 105 million Twitter fans. Although Ms. Cooper’s Twitter account is one of more than 600,000 followed by the 44th president, she still felt proud when he followed her in 2016.“He is my most prized follow,” Ms. Cooper said. “It would be hard to top that.”And when hackers busted into her Twitter account last November, her first thought was of Mr. Obama.“I didn’t know what crazy thing these hackers would say,” she said. Would they post something inflammatory? Would they send a rude message to 44? Her fears did not come true during the tense time that she monitored the account until it was back in her control. To her relief, Mr. Obama has remained among her 1,749 followers.“I do not kid myself that he knows who I am,” Ms. Cooper said. “But there are bragging rights to having the former leader of the free world follow you.”Two years ago, April Glick Pulito, an actor and bartender with more than 800 Twitter followers, won over the director Joss Whedon when she posted about subscribing to Slate magazine and other publications in a tweet that ended with “#resist.”After a retweet from the Slate account, Mr. Whedon, the director of “The Avengers,” followed her. At the time, Ms. Glick Pulito recalled, he followed only 235 people. She followed him back.“I didn’t want to be an over-excited fan girl,” she said. “I wanted to play it cool.”Ms. Glick Pulito said she would not have said hello to Mr. Whedon if she saw him dining at a restaurant. Was following him back the digital equivalent?“I was conscious of him following me, absolutely,” she said. “I’m a little ashamed to admit it, but I check weekly to see if he is still following me.”Last September, Ms. Glick Pulito got married. As a joke, she posted a tweet inviting her celebrity follower to the wedding. Mr. Whedon did not come. But he did send her a direct message on Twitter, wishing her a happy honeymoon and life.“I’m a cautionary tale, but enjoy,” he wrote. (Mr. Whedon was involved a messy divorce in 2016.)Despite having never met Mr. Whedon in person, Ms. Glick Pulito said she felt a sense of responsibility to him.“I feel weird talking about it, because it is so personal,” she said. “If he unfollowed me after this, I would feel like I betrayed him.”

Supported byNotedThe Stoics and friends continue to be the dominant thought leaders from Google to Apple — and a new entrepreneur lobbying firm has even named itself Cicero.By Nellie BowlesThe wealthy of Silicon Valley ought to be living their very best lives right now. John Doerr, an early Amazon and Google investor, calls their moment “the greatest legal accumulation of wealth in history.”And yet, the people of Silicon Valley seem determined to make themselves miserable. They sit in painful, silent meditations for weeks on end. They starve for days — on purpose. Cold morning showers are a bragging right. Notoriety is a badge of honor.So the most helpful clues to understanding Silicon Valley today may come from its favorite ancient philosophy: Stoicism. An ancient Greek school of thought, Stoicism argued that the only real treasures in life were inner virtues, like self-mastery and courage. The Stoics offered tactics to endure pain and pleasure without complaint. These virtues are paraded on the website of a new entrepreneurship-focused lobbying firm, the Cicero Institute. The organization started quietly last year, and is intended to advocate for start-up interests. Its landing page is adorned with a quote from Cicero, a Roman philosopher-statesman who embraced much of Stoicism’s ethical systems while remaining skeptical of its metaphysics: “I have always been of the opinion that unpopularity earned by doing what is right is not unpopularity at all but glory.”As stocks rise despite crises, as a new wave of wealth rises in the American West, and promotions and payouts come despite scandals, the old mantra that every start-up is going to save the world now rings hollow. But tenets of Stoicism — which can be interpreted to argue that the world and its current power structure are correctly set as they are — fit right in.Stoicism has been the preferred viral philosophy “for a moment” for years now — or two decades, by one count. The topic of Stoicism usually comes up in the Valley in terms of the maintenance of the personal life. Start-ups big and small believe their mission is to make the transactions of life frictionless and pleasing. But the executives building those things are convinced that a pleasing, on-demand life will make them soft. So they attempt to bring the pain.“We’re kept in constant comfort,” said Kevin Rose, the founder of Digg, in an interview on Daily Stoic, a popular blog for the tech-Stoic community. Mr. Rose said he tries to incorporate practices in his life that “mimic” our ancestors’ environments and their daily challenges: “This can be simple things like walking in the rain without a jacket or wearing my sandals in the December snow when I take the dog out in the mornings.”Tim Ferriss, the region’s popular life hacker, wrote on his blog that Stoicism is “an ideal ‘operating system’ for thriving in high-stress environments.” Elizabeth Holmes, the founder of the disastrous health diagnostics start-up Theranos and star of a new HBO documentary about its collapse, would often cite “Meditations,” by Marcus Aurelius. Rank-and-file tech workers frequently have more than one Stoic text on their bookshelves. Y Combinator, the start-up incubator, includes “A Guide to the Good Life: The Ancient Art of Stoic Joy,” by William B. Irvine, on its list of books for entrepreneurs to read. Ryan Holiday’s life-hacking books on Stoicism are especially popular, and seed the philosophy afresh to newcomers. (Mr. Holiday is one of the authors of “The Daily Stoic,” a daily meditation book for the barefoot-running and bowhunting crowd.)Then there are the founders who may not call themselves Stoics, but who are practicing some of its tenets. They include Jack Dorsey, the C.E.O. of Twitter, who likes to walk five miles to work each day and meditates in silence 10 days each year. He recently discussed “D.I.Y. cold tubs” and “one meal a day” in a podcast taping with Ben Greenfield, who evangelizes about health.Ada Palmer is a professor of early modern history at the University of Chicago and a novelist. Her books are popular in Silicon Valley, and she often visits for dinners with tech workers. “It’s very interesting to see their sort of sad lethargy,” Dr. Palmer said. “When you’re 37, rich, retired and unhappy, it’s very perplexing.”To her, it makes sense that they then turn to Stoicism. She called Stoicism “a wonderful therapy against grief and the blinders of the rat race.”“So much of Stoicism is about achieving interior tranquillity,” she said. That works for business leaders. Other schools of thought during Stoicism’s ancient rise had warned that politics and the pursuit of wealth would lead only to stress and risk, Dr. Palmer said, and some encouraged retiring from active life and even renouncing property. But Stoicism did not. Instead, Stoics believed that everything in the universe is already perfect and that things that seem bad or unjust are secretly good underneath. The philosophy is handy if you already believe that the rich are meant to be rich and the poor meant to be poor.“The new popularity of Stoicism among the tech crowd is, in my view, strikingly similar to Stoicism’s popularity among the powerful elites of ancient Rome,” Dr. Palmer said. “As Rome took over, it surged in popularity because it was the one system of ethics that worked well for the rich and powerful.”The Cicero Institute comes at a time of tension in Silicon Valley, from a person with a complicated history there.Joe Lonsdale, who founded the institute along with his wife, Taylor, is also a founder of Palantir, the data analytics firm long mired in controversy for its work supporting surveillance and predictive policing. In 2015 The New York Times Magazine reported on his relationship with an undergraduate mentee, who accused him of sexual abuse. He denied the charges. (The student sued him, he countersued, the suits were withdrawn; Stanford banned him from campus but then reversed that decision.) Mr. Lonsdale became friends with Peter Thiel at Stanford and, like Mr. Thiel, has spoken out against “social justice warriors.”Public anger about big tech is growing, and political leaders are beginning to take note. The Cicero Institute promises to fight for the business opportunities of entrepreneurs by focusing on deregulation, with special attention paid to making it easier to build start-ups around prisons, health care and education. Mr. Lonsdale proposes that “private prison contracts tie financial incentives to performance measures,” for instance. Cicero, for his part, retired, but then re-entered the ancient political arena when he saw rising corruption. He was ultimately killed for it. Of the institute’s mascot, Dr. Palmer said: “They’ve chosen the one who comes out of inaction when there’s a crisis to try to prevent a coup.” Nellie Bowles covers tech and internet culture. Follow her on Twitter:  @nelliebowles 

Supported byBy Michael S. Schmidt and Scott ShaneWASHINGTON — The special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, has delivered a report to Attorney General William P. Barr of findings from his investigation into Russia’s election interference and possible ties to Trump associates. Unless you’re a counterintelligence analyst, you may have lost track of how we got to this point in the saga and why Mr. Mueller was investigating President Trump in the first place. Here is a guide to what has happened over the past three years (yes, it’s been that long) and what we learned. [What questions do you have about the Mueller report? We're answering them live. And here’s what’s next.]March 2016Military intelligence officers in Moscow, working for the agency known as the G.R.U., used phishing emails and malware to hack into the Democratic National Committee and the Gmail account of John Podesta, Hillary Clinton’s campaign manager.Meanwhile, operatives at the Internet Research Agency, a private company in St. Petersburg with Kremlin ties, accelerated their influence campaign, posing as Americans on Facebook and Twitter to mock Mrs. Clinton, promote Mr. Trump and sow discord. Other operatives came to the United States to gather intelligence and coordinate with unwitting Trump campaign staff to organize rallies, according to an indictment.They were all aspects of a broader Russian operation that began in 2014, court papers show. American intelligence agencies would conclude that President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia ordered the intervention. Though it began well before Mr. Trump announced his run, Mr. Putin, who had long despised Mrs. Clinton, was later drawn to Mr. Trump’s Russia-friendly stances. As Mr. Trump gained ground in the race, the Russian operatives adjusted their targets accordingly.Read More:The Perfect Weapon: How Russian Cyberpower Invaded the U.S.The Plot to Subvert an Election: Unraveling the Russia Story So FarJuly 2016Three days before the Democratic Party nominated Mrs. Clinton, the anti-secrecy website WikiLeaks released 20,000 emails the Russians had hacked from the D.N.C., embarrassing Democrats and alerting the C.I.A. and F.B.I. to the Russian interference.Days later, F.B.I. agents learned the details of an even more troubling fact: One of Mr. Trump’s campaign advisers, George Papadopoulos, knew in advance about Russia’s plans. As links between the Trump campaign and Russia emerged, Mr. Trump’s repeated praise for Mr. Putin, and his disdain for NATO and traditional American allies — unusual stances for a Republican — added to suspicions about his relationship with Russia.In late July, the F.B.I. opened an investigation, code-named Crossfire Hurricane, to examine the connections between Trump associates and Russia. The investigation initially focused on Mr. Papadopoulos and three others with significant Russian ties: Paul Manafort, Michael T. Flynn and Carter Page.Read More:Assange, Avowed Foe of Clinton, Timed Email Release for Democratic ConventionCode Name Crossfire Hurricane: The Secret Origins of the Trump InvestigationDecember 2016After Mr. Trump was elected, Mr. Flynn, the incoming national security adviser, discussed with the Russian ambassador the sanctions that President Barack Obama had imposed on Russia over its election interference. But Mr. Flynn lied about the conversations, both to others in the White House and to federal investigators, leading to his dismissal and criminal charges. Separately, Jared Kushner, the president’s son-in-law, met with a Russian banker during the presidential transition, calling it a routine diplomatic meeting; Russian officials said they had discussed the Kushner family’s real estate business.Incoming Trump administration officials began to explore how sanctions on Russia might be lifted, possibly as a result of a “grand bargain” over its incursions into Ukraine. Some Obama administration holdovers feared an easing of sanctions might be payback for Russian help in the election.Read More:In Closed Hearing, a Clue About ‘the Heart’ of Mueller’s Russia InquiryProsecutors Examining Ukrainians Who Flocked to Trump InauguralInvestigation Turns to Kushner’s Motives in Meeting With a Putin AllyFlynn Is Said to Have Talked to Russians About Sanctions Before Trump Took OfficeJanuary 2017Weeks before Mr. Trump was inaugurated, the heads of the American intelligence agencies briefed him at Trump Tower about how Russia worked during the campaign to help him defeat Mrs. Clinton. But the information left Mr. Trump unconvinced.After the briefing, the F.B.I. director, James B. Comey, pulled Mr. Trump aside to warn him that a dossier compiled by a bureau informant asserted that the Russians had compromising material on him, though Mr. Comey cautioned that the information had not been corroborated.Throughout the early months of Mr. Trump’s presidency, he grew increasingly agitated with Mr. Comey. The president complained about the bureau’s decision to move forward with the Russia investigation and Mr. Comey’s unwillingness to say publicly that he was not under investigation.Read More:In a Private Dinner, Trump Demanded Loyalty. Comey Demurred.The Trump Dossier: What We Know and Who Paid for ItFrom the Start, Trump Has Muddied a Clear Message: Putin InterferedOP-ED Contributor: I’m Proud We Published the Trump-Russia DossierMay 2017On May 9, 2017, Mr. Trump fired Mr. Comey, setting off a chain of events that led to the appointment of Mr. Mueller several days later. Among the issues Mr. Mueller was assigned to investigate: the dimensions of Russia’s interference in the election, including any possible involvement by Trump associates; whether Mr. Trump had obstructed justice by firing Mr. Comey and asking him to end the Flynn investigation; and whether the president was a witting or unwitting agent of Russia.Read More:Robert Mueller, Former F.B.I. Director, Is Named Special Counsel for Russia InvestigationWhat Will Mueller Do? The Answer Might Lie in a By-the-Book PastF.B.I. Opened Inquiry Into Whether Trump Was Secretly Working on Behalf of RussiaTalk of the 25th Amendment Underscores a Volatile PresidencyJune 2017Mr. Trump stewed about Mr. Mueller’s investigation, blaming Attorney General Jeff Sessions, who had recused himself from oversight of the inquiry on the counsel of ethics advisers. A month after Mr. Mueller’s appointment, a fed-up president told his White House counsel, Donald F. McGahn, to fire Mr. Mueller, but Mr. McGahn refused.The episode was one of many actions and statements by the president, many of them in public, that seemed to be intended to disrupt or derail the Mueller investigation, which Mr. Trump routinely derided as a “witch hunt.” The pattern would feed into Mr. Mueller’s task of deciding whether Mr. Trump had obstructed justice or tried to do so.Read More:Trump Asked Sessions to Retain Control of Russia Inquiry After His RecusalTrump’s Son Met With Russian Lawyer After Being Promised Damaging Information on ClintonTrump Ordered Mueller Fired, but Backed Off When White House Counsel Threatened to QuitOctober 2017Mr. Manafort and another senior campaign official, Rick Gates, were indicted on charges of financial crimes related to their work as consultants for a pro-Russian leader of Ukraine. Court papers revealed that Mr. Papadopoulos had pleaded guilty to lying to the F.B.I. about his contacts with Russian intermediaries during the campaign. A month and a half later, Mr. Flynn also pleaded guilty to lying about his own contacts with the Russians and agreed to cooperate with prosecutors.The investigation, in other words, had already caught up Mr. Trump’s campaign manager and first national security adviser, among many others. Most of the charges involved lying to the F.B.I. or to Congress, and a pressing question for Mr. Mueller’s team was why so many of Mr. Trump’s associates felt compelled to conceal the truth.Read More:Former Trump Aides Charged as Prosecutors Reveal New Campaign Ties With RussiaHow the Russia Inquiry Began: A Campaign Aide, Drinks and Talk of Political DirtMichael Flynn Pleads Guilty to Lying to the F.B.I. and Will Cooperate With Russia InquiryEmails Dispute White House Claims That Flynn Acted Independently on RussiaFebruary 2018In detailed court papers that laid out a major aspect of the Kremlin’s interference scheme, Mr. Mueller charged 13 Russians and three Russian companies for mounting the fraudulent social media campaign. A second indictment would follow in July, naming the Russian military intelligence officers who had hacked and leaked Democratic emails during the campaign.The accused Russians were unlikely ever to be arrested or face trial. But the indictments, packed with remarkable detail, had a political impact: They undercut Mr. Trump’s repeated claims that no one really knew whether Russia was responsible for the election interference or that the Russian actions were a “hoax.”Read More:13 Russians Indicted as Mueller Reveals Effort to Aid Trump Campaign12 Russian Agents Indicted in Mueller Investigation12 Russians Charged: Major Highlights of the Indictment and Rod Rosenstein’s StatementApril 2018Mr. Mueller’s investigators unearthed new leads about possible corruption relating to Mr. Trump beyond Russia. After a referral from Mr. Mueller, federal prosecutors in Manhattan began investigating potential violations of campaign finance laws, raiding the residences and office of Mr. Trump’s longtime lawyer and fixer, Michael D. Cohen. He pleaded guilty in August to illegally paying off two women during the 2016 campaign to silence them about sexual encounters they alleged with Mr. Trump, who has denied the affairs.In court, Mr. Cohen said Mr. Trump directed him to arrange the payments, an assertion echoed by prosecutors months later, effectively tagging Mr. Trump as an unindicted co-conspirator in the crime.Also in August, a jury convicted Mr. Manafort on financial fraud counts, not tied to the Trump campaign but exposing him to a lengthy prison sentence. He would plead guilty in a separate case, agree to cooperate — but later be accused of continuing to lie as prosecutors questioned him under his plea agreement. Prosecutors would say he had given Konstantin V. Kilimnik, a longtime associate suspected of ties to Russian intelligence, detailed polling data from the presidential campaign.Read More:Michael Cohen Secretly Taped Trump Discussing Payment to Playboy ModelTools of Trump’s Fixer: Payouts, Intimidation and the TabloidsPaul Manafort, Trump’s Former Campaign Chairman, Guilty of 8 CountsDecember 2018Mr. Cohen pleaded guilty to another charge: lying to Congress about how long Mr. Trump pursued a real estate project in Russia during 2016. His plea demonstrated that Mr. Trump had continued to negotiate over a proposed Trump Tower Moscow deep into the campaign — even as he publicly encouraged the Russians to hack Mrs. Clinton’s emails and the Kremlin kept up its effort to help his campaign.As the investigations around Mr. Trump intensified at the end of the year, he tried a familiar tactic: He asked his acting attorney general to try to exert more control over the investigations related to Mr. Cohen.In January, Mr. Mueller continued his pursuit of those around Mr. Trump, indicting the president’s longtime adviser, Roger Stone, on charges of lying to Congress about his contacts with WikiLeaks during the campaign. The indictment contained a curious detail. It said that a senior campaign official “was directed” by an unnamed person to have Mr. Stone inquire from WikiLeaks about the future release of material damaging to Mrs. Clinton.Read More:Cohen Pleads Guilty and Details Trump’s Involvement in Moscow Tower ProjectProsecutors Effectively Accuse Trump of Defrauding Voters. What Does It Mean?February 2019In a daylong appearance before the House Oversight Committee, Mr. Cohen turned on the boss he had once said he would “take a bullet” to protect. He said he had only “suspicions” of a Trump-Russia connection but laid out evidence of a range of possible crimes with no Russian connection.He displayed a check signed by the president, he said was to reimburse him for hush money payments, that could implicate Mr. Trump in a campaign finance violation. He described how Mr. Trump inflated and deflated the value of his assets to get loans or reduce taxes, actions that could amount to bank fraud, insurance fraud and tax evasion. He said Mr. Trump had indicated, without directly instructing him, that he should lie to Congress. He described how Mr. Trump had used his charity to purchase a portrait of himself, in evident violation of state laws governing charitable foundations.Read More:Michael Cohen Accuses Trump of Expansive Pattern of Lies and CriminalityTestimony From Cohen Could Compound Legal Issues for TrumpWith Sweeping Document Request, Democrats Launch Broad Trump Corruption InquiryIn less than two years, Mr. Mueller had charged 34 people with 199 counts — an impressive record by the standards of past investigations. But with Mr. Cohen’s testimony, the Democrats who had taken control of the House made it clear that multiple investigations of Mr. Trump and his administration that would continue long after Mr. Mueller completed his work.Michael S. Schmidt is a Washington correspondent covering national security and federal investigations. He was part of two teams that won Pulitzer Prizes in 2018 — one for reporting on workplace sexual harassment and the other for coverage of President Trump and his campaign’s ties to Russia.  @NYTMike Scott Shane is a national security reporter in Washington. He was part of teams that won Pulitzer Prizes in 2017 for coverage of Russia's projections of power abroad and in 2018 for reporting on Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election.  @ScottShaneNYT • Facebook 

Supported byArticle of the DayBy Jeremy EngleBefore reading the article:On Friday, the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, submitted his report to the Justice Department, ending a 22-month investigation into Russian efforts to influence the outcome of the 2016 presidential election.Mr. Mueller was appointed special counsel in the spring of 2017 to oversee an investigation to determine:How did Russia, on the orders of President Vladimir V. Putin, wage a campaign to illegally influence the 2016 presidential race? Did any Trump associates conspire with Russia’s interference? Has President Trump tried to obstruct the inquiry?On Sunday, Attorney General William P. Barr sent Congress a four-page summary of Mueller’s findings and then released them publicly.According to Mr. Barr’s summary, the investigation found no evidence that President Trump or any of his aides coordinated with the Russian government’s 2016 election interference.How closely did you follow the investigation? What have you seen or read about Mr. Mueller’s report? What is your reaction to Mr. Barr’s summary of Mueller’s findings?Now, read the article, “Mueller Finds No Trump-Russia Conspiracy, but Stops Short of Exonerating President on Obstruction,” and answer the following questions: 1. Regarding the allegations of collusion or conspiracy by President Trump and his aides, what did the report submitted by Mr. Mueller conclude, according to Mr. Barr?2. Regarding the charge of obstruction of justice, Mr. Mueller, according to Mr. Barr, stated that “while this report does not conclude that the president committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him.” What does he mean by this statement?3. How did President Trump react to the news of Mr. Mueller’s findings?4. How have Democrats responded to the report and summary of Mueller’s findings by Mr. Barr? Why are they calling for the immediate release of the full report? Why have some criticized Mr. Barr’s summary and, in particular, his conclusions about obstruction?5. How many people were indicted by the office of the special counsel during the course of the investigation? What are some of the crimes they were charged with?6. How comprehensive was the special counsel’s investigation? Give three examples from the article.7. What do Mark Mazzetti and Katie Benner, the authors of the article, mean by the phrase “a cottage industry of Mueller watchers” on social media and cable news? Why do they liken some people’s interest in the investigation to an obsession?8. The authors write:How many minds it changes is another matter. Opinions have hardened over time, with many Americans already convinced they knew the answers before Mr. Mueller submitted his conclusions. Some believe that the special counsel’s previous indictments, twinned with voluminous news reporting, have already shown a conspiracy between the Trump campaign and the Kremlin. Some believe that the investigation is, as Mr. Trump has long described it, a “witch hunt.”What impact do you think the report will have on the country? Do you think it will change minds?Finally, tell us more about what you think:— What is your reaction to the Mueller report and Mr. Barr’s summary? Do they change your view of Mr. Trump and his presidency? Do you find Mr. Barr’s interpretation of the Mueller report to be satisfying?— Has the investigation restored your confidence in the American system of law or in Mr. Trump and his presidency? Or has deepened your distrust?— The investigation took over 22 months and cost over $25 million. Was it worth it? Why or why not? What, if anything, would you change about the proceedings? Do you agree that the full Mueller report should be made public?— Should the nation now move on, or should Democrats continue their investigations into the issue of collusion?— President Trump claims the Mueller report is a “complete and total exoneration.” Do you agree? Is he correct to have called the investigation a “witch hunt”?— In “No Collusion, No ‘Exoneration’,” The New York Times’ editorial board writes:… while Mr. Mueller may not have found sufficient evidence of a criminal conspiracy, let’s not lose sight of what we already know, both from his investigation and from news reports over the past two years.We know that the Russian government interfered repeatedly in the 2016 presidential election, by hacking into computer servers of the Democratic National Committee and the Clinton campaign. We know that it did this with the goals of dividing Americans and helping Donald Trump win the presidency. We know that when top members of the Trump campaign learned about this interference, they didn’t just fail to report it to the F.B.I. They welcomed it. They encouraged it. They made jokes about it. On the same day that Mr. Trump publicly urged the Russians to hack into Hillary Clinton’s emails, they began to do just that. And we know that when questioned by federal authorities, many of Mr. Trump’s top associates lied, sometimes repeatedly, about their communications with Russians. None of this is in dispute.That Mr. Mueller couldn’t find sufficient evidence that Mr. Trump or anyone involved in his campaign had coordinated directly with the Russians may be explained by the fact that they didn’t need to. They were already getting that help.We also know that what began as a counterintelligence investigation quickly turned into a criminal investigation, in large part because Mr. Trump surrounded himself with criminals. To date, his campaign chairman, Paul Manafort; his deputy campaign chairman, Rick Gates; his national security adviser, Michael Flynn; his campaign foreign policy adviser, George Papadopoulos; and his personal lawyer and fixer, Michael Cohen, have all pleaded guilty or been convicted of federal crimes. In January, Mr. Mueller charged Roger Stone, Mr. Trump’s longtime aide, with multiple counts of witness tampering, obstructing justice, and making false statements.Imagine if we’d learned all of this just Sunday, in one fell swoop, rather than in a trickle of indictments and prosecutions over the last 18 months.— Do you agree with the editorial board’s interpretation of the report? Which points do you find to be most persuasive? Which the least?— In “Right and Left React to the Mueller Report,” Sarah Mervosh surveys the reaction to the report from across the political spectrum. Read through the short quotations provided and choose one article to read in its entirety. What different facts and perspective did this additional article provide?— What do you think about the media coverage of the investigation? Do you think it was fair? If you feel it was not, in what ways do you think the media coverage was flawed? Why?Other Resources:“The Daily” Podcast: “Coordination: Not Established. Obstruction: More Complicated.”The Mueller Report: How Did We Get Here?Mueller Has Delivered His Report. Here’s What We Already Know.

Supported byForget everything you know about time management.By Tim HerreraWelcome to the Smarter Living newsletter! Every Monday, editor Tim Herrera emails readers with tips and advice for living a better, more fulfilling life. Sign up here to get it in your inbox.Let’s talk about how we spend our days. Or, more specifically, how we schedule them.It’s easy to think of our waking hours as blocks of time. Eight hours spent at work, broken up into smaller portions and scheduled out. Then we head off to live our personal lives, scheduling dinners, hobbies, happy hours, concerts and everything else. (Or, ahem, just rewatching a few hours of “The Office” on Netflix.) Rinse and repeat tomorrow.It can start to feel like we’re just living in a routine, scheduled by however much time we think we can allot to a given activity.But what if we’ve been looking at our days all wrong?This week, Smarter Living is publishing a series of stories focused on how we spend our time — or, more precisely, how we spend our attention. So much of what we think about, like productivity, effectiveness or just getting things done, is focused on how we manage our time. But each day this week we’ll have a story that tries to reframe that mind-set and make you consider how you spend your attention, instead of just filling blocks on a calendar.For example: We’re kicking off the week with an absolute blockbuster, must-read story today from Charlotte Lieberman that looks at why we all procrastinate. But instead of listing off productivity hacks or time-management mantras, we examine the emotions that are at the root of procrastination and how we can focus that energy in more healthy (and, yes, productive) ways.Dr. Fuschia Sirois, a professor of psychology at the University of Sheffield, told us that procrastination people tend to “engage in this irrational cycle of chronic procrastination because of an inability to manage negative moods around a task.” Note what she did not say: that we procrastinate because we’re bad at to-do lists, scheduling or are just plain lazy.Read our full story on procrastination here.Later this week we’ll have stories on how to stay focused when your routines become boring; what we can do to fight back against the modern distractions stealing away our attention; and why we sometimes pre-crastinate.To wrap up the week, on Friday we have a story from the organizational psychologist and S.L. regular Adam Grant that serves as a guide to reframing our thinking on what we choose to invest ourselves in. This passage from that story sums it all up:We live in a culture obsessed with personal productivity. We devour books on getting things done and dream of four-hour work weeks. We worship at the altar of hustle and boast about being busy. The key to getting things done, we’re often told, is time management. If you could just plan your schedule better, you could reach productivity nirvana.But after two decades of studying productivity, I’ve become convinced that time management is not a solution — it’s actually part of the problem.Visit nytimes.com/smarterliving throughout the week to read all of our coverage.I’d love to know what you think (or just hear your worst procrastination stories). Tweet at me @timherrera or email me at tim@nytimes.com.Have a great week!— TimWhy You Procrastinate. (It Has Nothing to do With Self-Control.) If procrastination isn’t about laziness, then what is it about?Reading Your Credit Report Can Be Confusing. Read Mine. If there was ever a time to check your credit reports, it was after 150 million people had their most sensitive financial information put at risk in one of the biggest hacks in history. But did every American race to verify that their credit history was safe and untampered with? Noooooooope.How to Not Ruin Your Life (or Just Die of Embarrassment) With a Screen Share There are settings to help you avoid this. Here’s how to use them.Is It Time? Making End of Life Decisions for Pets To help pet owners make decisions about end of life care, a veterinarian developed a decision tool based on seven indicators.How to Avoid the Next Real Estate Downturn Property investments have long been associated with wealth creation. In a recession, though, they can be risky for owners who need to sell.A User Manual for Your Knees A knee is designed to withstand millions of steps during a lifetime, but sometimes all that stress can have ill effects. Here’s how to care for and use your knees for many years to come.This week I’ve invited the writer Rachel Chernaskey to tell us why we should find time to laugh. (LOL.)Here’s what I’d guess is a familiar habit: You pop open Instagram, scroll through an endless feed of memes, then resurface an hour later feeling guilty about your utter lack of productivity.Guilt-trip no more! Those laughs you’re allowing yourself are deeply beneficial for both your physical and mental health. And in our age of stress-inducing news cycles and social media obsession, we should all probably be making more time for a good old-fashioned laugh.To wit: Research shows laughing can boost your immune system, reduce stress, help protect against illnesses like heart disease and help you earn better test scores. One Norwegian study from 2016 showed having a good sense of humor might even mean living a longer life. Giving yourself a laugh will make you feel better immediately — literally — thanks to the sudden burst of endorphins that occurs.Try budgeting in more time during the week simply for a dose of humor — maybe even in a nondigital activity, so you can reap those benefits sans screen-time hangover. (Easier said than done, I know.) See a live comedy show. Hang out with a particularly funny friend. Read a newspaper’s comics or a magazine’s cartoons. If you don’t have any time in your schedule to do any of that, not to worry. Funny memes will do the trick, too.Tim Herrera is the founding editor of Smarter Living, where he edits and reports stories about living a better, more fulfilling life. He was previously a reporter and editor at The Washington Post.  @timherrera • Facebook 

Supported byA Trump-friendly attorney general’s letter doesn’t do justice to the special counsel’s investigation. Release his whole report.By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.On its face, the letter that Attorney General William Barr sent to Congress on Sunday afternoon, summarizing the key findings of the special counsel Robert Mueller’s Russia investigation, is good news, not just for President Trump.According to Mr. Barr’s four-page summary, Mr. Mueller and his team were unable to establish that anyone connected to the Trump campaign conspired or coordinated with the Russian government when it interfered to help Mr. Trump in the 2016 presidential campaign.This should provide some relief to all Americans who have harbored fears that a presidential candidate was conspiring with Vladimir Putin to subvert American democracy. Mr. Mueller — who never once responded to the shameless stream of insults Mr. Trump has hurled at him over the last two years — is as careful and thorough an investigator as there is. His investigation lasted almost two years, issued more than 2,800 subpoenas and roughly 500 search warrants and heard from a similar number of witnesses. If he couldn’t find any links, it’s doubtful anyone could.What this outcome is not, however, is a “Complete and Total EXONERATION,” as Mr. Trump unsurprisingly spun it. Mr. Mueller explicitly declined to exonerate the president on the matter of obstruction of justice — a crime that constituted one of the articles of impeachment for both Presidents Richard Nixon and Bill Clinton. After examining Mr. Trump’s actions and weighing “difficult issues” of law and fact, Mr. Mueller punted. “While this report does not conclude that the president committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him,” the report states.Mr. Barr wasn’t as cautious. Less than 48 hours after receiving Mr. Mueller’s report, the attorney general briskly decided that Mr. Trump had not obstructed justice. Why not? Because there was no underlying crime to obstruct, Mr. Barr said, and anyway, most of Mr. Trump’s behavior took place in full public view, had no connection to any legal proceeding, and wasn’t “done with corrupt intent.” How did Mr. Barr make these determinations so quickly? On what evidence in the report did he base it?Recall that Mr. Barr got his current job only after Mr. Trump shoved out his predecessor, Jeff Sessions, for not showing him enough personal loyalty and shutting down the Russia investigation at the start. Among the reasons Mr. Barr may have appealed to the president was an unsolicited memo he sent last year to the Justice Department, taking the position that Mr. Mueller should not be allowed to question Mr. Trump about obstructing justice, and that the president could not be guilty of obstruction unless there were an underlying crime to obstruct.In other words, Mr. Barr did exactly as Mr. Trump hoped he would. But there’s a reason obstructing justice is a crime on its own. The justice system doesn’t work when people lie to authorities, no matter why they do so. Mr. Barr’s curious views on obstruction are just one reason that Mr. Mueller’s full report must be made available, immediately, to both Congress and the American people.Also, while Mr. Mueller may not have found sufficient evidence of a criminal conspiracy, let’s not lose sight of what we already know, both from his investigation and from news reports over the past two years.We know that the Russian government interfered repeatedly in the 2016 presidential election, by hacking into computer servers of the Democratic National Committee and the Clinton campaign. We know that it did this with the goals of dividing Americans and helping Donald Trump win the presidency. We know that when top members of the Trump campaign learned about this interference, they didn’t just fail to report it to the F.B.I. They welcomed it. They encouraged it. They made jokes about it. On the same day that Mr. Trump publicly urged the Russians to hack into Hillary Clinton’s emails, they began to do just that. And we know that when questioned by federal authorities, many of Mr. Trump’s top associates lied, sometimes repeatedly, about their communications with Russians. None of this is in dispute.That Mr. Mueller couldn’t find sufficient evidence that Mr. Trump or anyone involved in his campaign had coordinated directly with the Russians may be explained by the fact that they didn’t need to. They were already getting that help.We also know that what began as a counterintelligence investigation quickly turned into a criminal investigation, in large part because Mr. Trump surrounded himself with criminals. To date, his campaign chairman, Paul Manafort; his deputy campaign chairman, Rick Gates; his national security adviser, Michael Flynn; his campaign foreign policy adviser, George Papadopoulos; and his personal lawyer and fixer, Michael Cohen, have all pleaded guilty or been convicted of federal crimes. In January, Mr. Mueller charged Roger Stone, Mr. Trump’s longtime aide, with multiple counts of witness tampering, obstructing justice, and making false statements.Imagine if we’d learned all of this just Sunday, in one fell swoop, rather than in a trickle of indictments and prosecutions over the last 18 months. Americans are, of course, continuing to learn more unsettling truths from the dozen or so other investigations that are continuing, such as the one in New York that has already landed Mr. Cohen a three-year prison sentence for campaign-finance violations that prosecutors said Mr. Trump was also involved in, from the White House.One might expect Mr. Trump to feel happiness at Sunday’s news, but for him, that emotion seems to transform into a desire for vengeance. It’s no surprise that he and his allies are once again floating the idea of prosecuting Mrs. Clinton. Remember her? She was the candidate who, during a presidential debate all the way back in 2016, said: “It’s pretty clear you won’t admit that the Russians have engaged in cyberattacks against the United States of America, that you encouraged espionage against our people, that you are willing to spout the Putin line, sign up for his wish list, break up NATO, do whatever he wants to do and that you continue to get help from him because he has a very clear favorite in this race.”Mr. Putin did have a clear favorite. He interfered on his behalf, and his favorite was elected president. Trump campaign officials knew about this and were more than happy for the help. Then they lied about receiving that help. This isn’t so complicated. And while Mr. Mueller may not be able to do anything about it, Congress, and the American people, certainly can.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.



      By THE NEW YORK TIMES

MARCH 24, 2019

The letter, by Attorney General William P. Barr, details the main findings of the special counsel’s two-year investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election.
Page 1Washington, D.C.March 24, 2019Dear Chairman Graham, Chairman Nadler, Ranking Member Feinstein, and Ranking Member Collins:As a supplement to the notification provided on Friday, March 22, 2019, I am writing today to advise you of the principal conclusions reached by Special Counsel Robert S. Mueller III and to inform you about the status of my initial review of the report he has prepared.On Friday, the Special Counsel submitted to me a "confidential report explaining the prosecution or declination decisions” he has reached, as required by 28 C.F.R. $ 600.8(c). This report is entitled “Report on the Investigation into Russian Interference in the 2016 Presidential Election.” Although my review is ongoing, I believe that it is in the public interest to describe the report and to summarize the principal conclusions reached by the Special Counsel and the results of his investigation.The report explains that the Special Counsel and his staff thoroughly investigated allegations that members of the presidential campaign of Donald J. Trump, and others associated with it, conspired with the Russian government in its efforts to interfere in the 2016 U.S. presidential election, or sought to obstruct the related federal investigations. In the report, the Special Counsel noted that, in completing his investigation, he employed 19 lawyers who were assisted by a team of approximately 40 FBI agents, intelligence analysts, forensic accountants, and other professional staff. The Special Counsel issued more than 2,800 subpoenas, executed nearly 500 search warrants, obtained more than 230 orders for communication records, issued almost 50 orders authorizing use of pen registers, made 13 requests to foreign governments for evidence, and interviewed approximately 500 witnesses.Page 1Page 2The Special Counsel obtained a number of indictments and convictions of individuals and entities in connection with his investigation, all of which have been publicly disclosed. During the course of his investigation, the Special Counsel also referred several matters to other offices for further action. The report does not recommend any further indictments, nor did the Special Counsel obtain any sealed indictments that have yet to be made public. Below, I summarize the principal conclusions set out in the Special Counsel's report.The Special Counsel's report is divided into two parts. The first describes the results of the Special Counsel's investigation into Russia's interference in the 2016 U.S. presidential election. The report outlines the Russian effort to influence the election and documents crimes committed by persons associated with the Russian government in connection with those efforts. The report further explains that a primary consideration for the Special Counsel's investigation was whether any Americans – including individuals associated with the Trump campaign – joined the Russian conspiracies to influence the election, which would be a federal crime. The Special Counsel's investigation did not find that the Trump campaign or anyone associated with it conspired or coordinated with Russia in its efforts to influence the 2016 U.S. presidential election. As the report states: “[T]he investigation did not establish that members of the Trump Campaign conspired or coordinated with the Russian government in its election interference activities.”1The Special Counsel's investigation determined that there were two main Russian efforts to influence the 2016 election. The first involved attempts by a Russian organization, the Internet Research Agency (IRA), to conduct disinformation and social media operations in the United States designed to sow social discord, eventually with the aim of interfering with the election. As noted above, the Special Counsel did not find that any U.S. person or Trump campaign official or associate conspired or knowingly coordinated with the IRA in its efforts, although the Special Counsel brought criminal charges against a number of Russian nationals and entities in connection with these activities.The second element involved the Russian government's efforts to conduct computer hacking operations designed to gather and disseminate information to influence the election. The Special Counsel found that Russian government actors successfully hacked into computers and obtained emails from persons affiliated with the Clinton campaign and Democratic Party organizations, and publicly disseminated those materials through various intermediaries, including WikiLeaks. Based on these activities, the Special Counsel brought criminal charges against a number of Russian military officers for conspiring to hack into computers in the United States for purposes of influencing the election. But as noted above, the Special Counsel did not find that the Trump campaign, or anyone associated with it, conspired or coordinated with the Russian government in these efforts, despite multiple offers from Russian-affiliated individuals to assist the Trump campaign.1 In assessing potential conspiracy charges, the Special Counsel also considered whether members of the Trump campaign “coordinated” with Russian election interference activities. The Special Counsel defined “coordination” as an “agreement—tacit or express—between the Trump Campaign and the Russian government on election interference.”Page 2Page 3The report's second part addresses a number of actions by the President – most of which have been the subject of public reporting – that the Special Counsel investigated as potentially raising obstruction-of-justice concerns. After making a “thorough factual investigation” into these matters, the Special Counsel considered whether to evaluate the conduct under Department standards governing prosecution and declination decisions but ultimately determined not to make a traditional prosecutorial judgment. The Special Counsel therefore did not draw a conclusion - one way or the other – as to whether the examined conduct constituted obstruction. Instead, for each of the relevant actions investigated, the report sets out evidence on both sides of the question and leaves unresolved what the Special Counsel views as “difficult issues” of law and fact concerning whether the President's actions and intent could be viewed as obstruction. The Special Counsel states that “while this report does not conclude that the President committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him.”The Special Counsel's decision to describe the facts of his obstruction investigation without reaching any legal conclusions leaves it to the Attorney General to determine whether the conduct described in the report constitutes a crime. Over the course of the investigation, the Special Counsel's office engaged in discussions with certain Department officials regarding many of the legal and factual matters at issue in the Special Counsel's obstruction investigation. After reviewing the Special Counsel's final report on these issues; consulting with Department officials, including the Office of Legal Counsel; and applying the principles of federal prosecution that guide our charging decisions, Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein and I have concluded that the evidence developed during the Special Counsel's investigation is not sufficient to establish that the President committed an obstruction-of-justice offense. Our determination was made without regard to, and is not based on, the constitutional considerations that surround the indictment and criminal prosecution of a sitting president.2In making this determination, we noted that the Special Counsel recognized that “the evidence does not establish that the President was involved in an underlying crime related to Russian election interference," and that, while not determinative, the absence of such evidence bears upon the President's intent with respect to obstruction. Generally speaking, to obtain and sustain an obstruction conviction, the government would need to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that a person, acting with corrupt intent, engaged in obstructive conduct with a sufficient nexus to a pending or contemplated proceeding. In cataloguing the President's actions, many of which took place in public view, the report identifies no actions that, in our judgment, constitute obstructive conduct, had a nexus to a pending or contemplated proceeding, and were done with corrupt intent, each of which, under the Department's principles of federal prosecution guiding charging decisions, would need to be proven beyond a reasonable doubt to establish an obstruction-of-justice offense.The relevant regulations contemplate that the Special Counsel's report will be a “confidential report to the Attorney General. See Office of Special Counsel, 64 Fed. Reg. 37,038,2 See A Sitting President's Amenability to Indictment and Criminal Prosecution, 24 Op. O.L.C. 222 (2000).Page 3Page 437,040-41 (July 9, 1999). As I have previously stated, however, I am mindful of the public interest in this matter. For that reason, my goal and intent is to release as much of the Special Counsel's report as I can consistent with applicable law, regulations, and Departmental policies.Based on my discussions with the Special Counsel and my initial review, it is apparent that the report contains material that is or could be subject to Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 6(e), which imposes restrictions on the use and disclosure of information relating to “matter[s] occurring before [a] grand jury.” Fed. R. Crim. P. 6(e)(2)(B). Rule 6(e) generally limits disclosure of certain grand jury information in a criminal investigation and prosecution. Id. Disclosure of 6(e) material beyond the strict limits set forth in the rule is a crime in certain circumstances. See, e.g., 18 U.S.C. § 401(3). This restriction protects the integrity of grand jury proceedings and ensures that the unique and invaluable investigative powers of a grand jury are used strictly for their intended criminal justice function.Given these restrictions, the schedule for processing the report depends in part on how quickly the Department can identify the 6(e) material that by law cannot be made public. I have requested the assistance of the Special Counsel in identifying all 6(e) information contained in the report as quickly as possible. Separately, I also must identify any information that could impact other ongoing matters, including those that the Special Counsel has referred to other offices. As soon as that process is complete, I will be in a position to move forward expeditiously in determining what can be released in light of applicable law, regulations, and Departmental policies.As I observed in my initial notification, the Special Counsel regulations provide that “the Attorney General may determine that public release of” notifications to your respective Committees “would be in the public interest.” 28 C.F.R. § 600.9(c). I have so determined, and I will disclose this letter to the public after delivering it to you.Page 4Produced by Tiff Fehr, Troy Griggs, Jasmine C. Lee, Jaymin Patel, Rumsey Taylor and Josh Williams.

Supported byINTERNATIONALAn article on Tuesday about extradition laws in Hong Kong described incorrectly what types of crimes could result in extradition to mainland China from Hong Kong under proposed changes in the territory’s laws. It is not the case that suspects would be extradited for political crimes or other matters not considered crimes in Hong Kong.•An article on Monday about the Academie française referred imprecisely to the makeup of the academy. While Dany Laferrière is the only black member, he is not its only minority member.NATIONALAn article on Tuesday about the State of Texas Assessments of Academic Readiness misspelled the given name of a student. She is Kristen Hernandez, not Kristin.•Because of a production mistake, an article on Tuesday about the Food and Drug Administration’s approval of a drug derived from Ketamine was published in error. The drug was approved on Tuesday — not Monday.BUSINESSBecause of an editing error, an article on Monday about North Korean hackers misstated the length of time between the first and second summit meetings between President Trump and Kim Jong-un, North Korea’s leader. It was about eight months, not 15.ARTSAn article on Tuesday about television programming in one instance misidentified the network that airs “The Story of God With Morgan Freeman.” It is National Geographic, not A&amp;E. The error was repeated in a capsule summary.OBITUARIESAn obituary on Feb. 8 about John D. Dingell Jr., the longest-serving member of Congress in American history, misstated how much money the House Energy and Commerce Committee, of which he was chairman at the time, determined Stanford University had overcharged the government for indirect research costs. A settlement was reached with the university under which Stanford agreed to repay a little more than $3 million and the government agreed to drop any additional claims against it; it was not the case that the committee found that the university had overcharged the government by “tens of millions of dollars.” The obituary also referred incorrectly to the Fisher brothers, of whom Mr. Dingell’s wife, Representative Debbie Dingell, was an heir. They founded the Fisher Body company and later sold it to General Motors; they were not the founders of General Motors.Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com or call 1-844-NYT-NEWS (1-844-698-6397).Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com or faxed to (212) 556-3622.For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.

Supported byBy David M. HalbfingerJERUSALEM — Two rockets were fired at Tel Aviv from the Gaza Strip on Thursday — the first time since 2014 that rockets had reached the area — in an attack that led to retaliatory airstrikes by Israel hours later.Israel blamed Hamas, the Islamic militant group that controls Gaza, for the rocket fire, but by Friday morning, the assessment of Israeli military officials, also widely reported in the Israeli media, was that Hamas operatives had launched the rockets “by mistake.”Israel’s Iron Dome missile-defense system detected the incoming rockets around 9 p.m. and sounded alarms that were heard across metropolitan Tel Aviv on a rainy night. No injuries or damage were reported, but residents reported hearing loud blasts and the mayor ordered bomb shelters opened.The two militant Islamic factions with the capability of hitting Tel Aviv from Gaza, Hamas and Palestinian Islamic Jihad, both quickly denied responsibility for the attack and said they had no intention of escalating violence with Israel.The Israeli military said it had carried out retaliatory strikes overnight against approximately 100 military sites belonging to Hamas throughout the Gaza Strip, including an underground rocket manufacturing facility and an office complex in a residential area of Gaza City that housed Hamas’s headquarters for directing activities in the West Bank. According to initial reports, four Palestinians were wounded in those attacks.The Israeli military said four more rocket launches were identified in areas close to the Gaza border, and that three of them were intercepted by the Iron Dome aerial defense system. The fourth presumably fell inside Gaza or in open ground. But there seemed to be efforts on both sides to tamp down the tensions and avoid a wider clash.An Israeli military spokesman initially reported that one rocket had been intercepted and the other had landed in an open area in the attack against Tel Aviv. But an official statement issued later by the military said there had been no interceptions, gave no information on whether interceptor missiles were fired, and did not say what happened to either incoming rocket. According to Israeli news reports, one exploded midair and another landed in the sea.Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu rushed to the military’s headquarters in Tel Aviv to be briefed on the attack.Mr. Netanyahu has sought to avoid war with Gaza and has tended to respond to scattered rocket attacks over the past year with relative restraint. With notable exceptions, Israel has often answered with airstrikes that pounded Hamas military emplacements evacuated of their personnel, doing damage to buildings but not shedding much blood.Now, however, he is campaigning for re-election on April 9, facing pressure from hawkish right-wing rivals — like Naftali Bennett, the education minister who wants to be defense minister — and a serious challenge from a new party, Blue and White, led by three former army chiefs.Mr. Bennett, of the New Right party, demanded a plan to “defeat Hamas once and for all.”“Not more shooting at sand dunes without causing harm to the enemy,” he said, “but time for an uncompromising pursuit and systematic neutralization of Hamas’s leaders.”The justice minister, Ayelet Shaked, also of the New Right party, added her two cents on Twitter: “Two words — Bennett defense.”And the leading challenger to Mr. Netanyahu, Benny Gantz of the Blue and White party, who as the army chief led the 2014 Gaza war, urged “a significant and sharp response, otherwise it will be impossible to renew deterrence.”Hamas said Thursday that it would seek to punish those responsible for the Tel Aviv attack, suggesting that someone in one of the militant groups could have been acting in defiance of orders. In a statement, its military wing said, “We are not responsible for the rockets fired at the enemy tonight.”Hamas has been in negotiations with Israel, through Egyptian intermediaries, for months, and it said that the rocket attack had occurred while its representatives were meeting with Egypt’s emissaries.Palestinian Islamic Jihad, a more militant rival, is said to be impatient with the pace of those talks, and has at times used attacks on Israel to make itself heard. But a spokesman for Palestinian Islamic Jihad, Daoud Shehab, denied it had any role in the attack. “The factions have no intention to escalate,” he said.Israeli analysts suggested one possible reason that Hamas would have allowed the attack, or even carried it out. Protests against conditions in Gaza were held in several parts of the territory on Thursday in defiance of Hamas officials, and local security forces were videotaped beating some demonstrators with clubs, leading to speculation that Hamas might welcome an exchange of fire with Israel to divert attention from the protests.Jason Greenblatt, President Trump’s special envoy to the Middle East, did not hesitate to conclude that Hamas was responsible.“Hamas violently suppresses its own people demonstrating against Hamas’ rule &amp; failures today and NOW fires rockets at cities in Israel,” he wrote on Twitter. “OUTRAGEOUS! This is what prevents the world from helping the people of Gaza! We strongly support Israel in defense of its citizens. Always!”Hamas and Palestinian Islamic Jihad have generally been quick to take responsibility for rocket strikes on Israel.But in another surprise attack, in October, a rocket from Gaza made a direct hit on a house in the southern city of Beersheba, crashing through the roof and destroying the bedrooms where three children had been sleeping moments earlier. Their mother saved them by rushing them down to a bomb shelter as the siren sounded, with seconds to spare, likely averting a wider war.The same night, a second rocket fell into the sea after it was fired toward the crowded coastal area of central Israel.That time, too, both Hamas and Islamic Jihad denied involvement, though the military said they were the only groups in Gaza with the midrange rockets that were used. There was speculation on both sides that the rockets may have been set off by lightning in a storm, though that suspicion was never confirmed.Iron Dome apparently failed to identify the rocket that hit Beersheba in October. The military responded with airstrikes against about 20 targets in Gaza.Yaakov Amidror, a former Israeli national security adviser and retired general, raised the possibility that Iran, which is an important backer of both Hamas and Palestinian Islamic Jihad, could have been behind the Thursday attack.Separately, Iran hacked into Mr. Gantz’s private cellphone some time ago, his campaign confirmed Thursday night after the security lapse was reported by Israeli television. A spokesman suggested the hacking was being reported only now to embarrass Mr. Gantz in the heat of the political campaign.Neither Israel nor Hamas had any desire for a new war, Mr. Amidror said, but the delicate standoff between Israel and Gaza meant that the potential counterstrikes ran the risk of getting out of hand.“Now it’s very much in the hands of the reaction of the I.D.F.,” he said, referring to the military, “and their reaction to the reaction.”Reporting was contributed by Iyad Abuheweila from Gaza City, Isabel Kershner from Jerusalem, Ronen Bergman from Tel Aviv, and Megan Specia from New York.

Supported byBy Sara AridiA new documentary on HBO chronicles the baffling Theranos story. And a legal drama series begins on ABC.THE INVENTOR: OUT FOR BLOOD IN SILICON VALLEY (2019) 9 p.m. on HBO; streaming on HBO platforms. After Elizabeth Holmes claimed that she had revolutionized personal health care with a breakthrough blood-testing technology, Inc. magazine hailed her as “the next Steve Jobs.” But an investigation by The Wall Street Journal revealed that no such technology existed, and that Holmes’s company, Theranos, had taken hundreds of millions of dollars from investors under false pretenses. (Holmes and Theranos’s former president were indicted on charges of conspiracy and wire fraud last year.) This new documentary from Alex Gibney (“Going Clear: Scientology &amp; the Prison of Belief”) traces how Holmes was able to swindle high-profile investors and bamboozle the world to reach her dream of becoming “a billionaire.”9-1-1 9 p.m. on Fox. Ryan Murphy’s procedural drama about a group of emergency responders in Los Angeles makes its midseason premiere. The crew receives a bizarre call about a man who was attacked by a tiger shark on a freeway, and a plastic surgeon’s office falls into disarray after a gas leak. And of course there’s the frothy drama outside of work: After taking their relationship to the next level, Athena (Angela Bassett) and Bobby (Peter Krause) reach another milestone, and Maddie (Jennifer Love Hewitt) tries to put her marriage behind her once and for all.THE FIX 10 p.m. on ABC. Some have speculated that this new legal-drama series is based on the 1994 O. J. Simpson murder case. (One of the writers and executive producers of the show is Marcia Clark, who was the lead prosecutor on the Simpson trial.) Clark has said “The Fix” is not based on her experiences from that time, but it does bear some resemblance: A stone-faced Robin Tunney (“The Mentalist”) stars as Maya Davis, a district attorney who left Los Angeles for Washington after she lost a high-profile murder case involving an actor, Sevvy Johnson (Adewale Akinnuoye-Agbaje of “Lost”), who may or may not have killed his wife. Eight years later, Sevvy is suspected of murdering his girlfriend, and Maya is lured back to California for another chance to put him behind bars.ASSASSINATION NATION (2018) Stream on Hulu; rent on Amazon, Google Play, Vudu or YouTube. Take the social issues that have rattled the United States in the past few years, throw in commentary on the detrimental effects of social media and add some references to President Trump, and you get “Assassination Nation.” This horror-comedy is set in a fictional town that goes haywire after an anonymous hacker exposes half of the residents’ dirty little secrets. “Often it feels like reading a Twitter thread of ideas and hashtags, rather than watching a movie,” Aisha Harris wrote in her review in The New York Times. Yet the final, vengeful act, she adds, “is aesthetically arresting.”

Supported byGood Friday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)Rajat Gupta was once a member of the financial elite: the head of McKinsey, a board member of Goldman Sachs and an adviser to Bill Gates. Then he was convicted in 2012 of tipping an insider-trading ring. Now Mr. Gupta, who served two years in prison, has spoken to Andrew about his plight.Mr. Gupta still says he’s innocent of securities fraud, despite having been convicted of illegally slipping the hedge fund manager Raj Rajaratnam confidential information about Goldman Sachs. His only regret? Being a little too loose-lipped about corporate secrets.Mr. Gupta forgave Mr. Rajaratnam when the two shared prison time. “We played Scrabble in prison together. We played chess. We had breakfast together,” Mr. Gupta told Andrew.But he definitely hasn’t forgiven Preet Bharara, the prosecutor who put him behind bars. “Go after the hedge funds and their circle, play up the story in the press, and maybe no one would notice that the big banking executives were continuing to walk free,” Mr. Gupta wrote in a new book, out next week.Since being released three years ago, Mr. Gupta has done some consulting in India, but hasn’t reconnected with many business associates from his previous life. “I didn’t want to put them in a difficult position,” he said.But he’s learning to move on. “Don’t get too attached to anything — your reputation, your accomplishments or any of it,” Mr. Gupta told Andrew. “This thing unjustly destroyed my reputation. That’s only troubling if I am so attached to my reputation.”European leaders have pushed back the deadline for Britain’s exit from the bloc, giving Prime Minister Theresa May and British lawmakers more time to avoid a no-deal Brexit, Stephen Castle and Steven Erlanger of the NYT write.“Britain’s exit date will be pushed back to May 22 if next week Mrs. May can persuade lawmakers in Parliament to accept her plan for leaving the bloc, which they have already rejected overwhelmingly, not once but twice.”“If she cannot persuade lawmakers to accept her plan, Mrs. May will get a shorter delay in exiting the European Union — until April 12. But Britain could stay in the bloc longer if it decides it needs more time for a more fundamental rethink of Brexit.”The E.U. doesn’t want Britain to crash out. But officials “made it clear that it is for Britain to make serious choices, and soon, and that failure should not be laid at the door of Brussels,” Mr. Castle and Mr. Erlanger write.More: Over two million people have signed a petition to cancel Brexit. And Britain’s Financial Conduct Authority warned that the finance industry still faces big risks in a no-deal scenario.The embattled plane maker will install an extra safety alarm in its 737 Max jets after two fatal plane crashes. But it’s unclear whether that, together with a forthcoming software upgrade, will be enough to prevent future catastrophes.The new feature warns pilots  if a plane’s “angle of attack” sensors, which determine the pitch of the plane’s nose, disagree with each other. A faulty sensor is suspected of triggering anti-stall software that may have helped cause the Lion Air and Ethiopian Airlines crashes. Until now, this warning system was an optional extra on the Max jets.But it’s only one of two features that experts say could help make the planes safer, according to the NYT. The other is an indicator that displays the sensors’ readings, which will remain an optional feature. Neither has been mandated by the F.A.A.The move highlights Boeing’s practice of selling add-ons. The planemaker has made a lot of money by offering features as upgrades — some of which are important safety items, the NYT reports. (Among them: a backup fire extinguisher for the cargo hold and oxygen masks for the crew.)But the damage continues to grow. Indonesia’s Garuda airline said today it was seeking to cancel a $4.9 billion order of Max 8 jets. “Our passengers, psychologically, they don’t trust flying with Max anymore,” a spokesman for the airline told the NYT.Small countries, big companies and even just wealthy people can now turn to gun-for-hire hackers to settle their scores, according to an NYT investigation — turning the business into a multibillion-dollar industry.Privatized cyberspying has taken off. Two companies — NSO, an Israeli company, and DarkMatter, based in the United Arab Emirates — have developed sophisticated espionage operations, helped by former government hackers on staff. They help governments perform legitimate law enforcement investigations.But there’s a darker side. The Mexican government is suspected of using NSO tools to spy on its own citizens, including journalists and activists. Saudi Arabia has been accused of using NSO products to spy on associates of Jamal Khashoggi. And former DarkMatter employees told the NYT that the U.A.E. used the firm’s tools to spy on Ahmed Mansoor, a prominent human rights activist.And it’s lucrative. “Francisco Partners, a private equity firm, purchased a 70 percent stake in NSO for $130 million in 2013. Last month, NSO’s co-founders raised enough money to buy back a majority stake in NSO at a valuation of just under $1 billion,” the NYT reports. Moody’s estimates that the so-called lawful intercept spyware market is worth $12 billion.Intellectual property rules for new pharmaceutical products could derail President Trump’s push to get his revised North American Free Trade Agreement through Congress, Ana Swanson of the NYT reports.• “While Mr. Trump secured Canada’s and Mexico’s signoff on the new agreement last year, the trade pact must be ratified by legislators in all three countries, including by Congress.”• “Democrats, who now control the House, have already made it clear that they will not approve the new trade deal without significant changes to labor and environmental provisions.”• “Now, they are also looking for revisions to the trade deal’s pharmaceutical provisions, in particular a measure providing an advanced class of drugs called biologics 10 years of protection from cheaper alternatives.”• “A similar conflict over drug industry protections helped delay and ultimately sink the prospects for another trade deal, the Trans-Pacific Partnership.”Jared Kushner, President Trump’s son-in-law, went to Saudi Arabia in October 2017 in his role as a White House adviser. But his brother, Josh, was there the day before on behalf of his investment firm, David Kirkpatrick of the NYT reports — raising questions about whether Jared could be evenhanded in dealing with the kingdom.• “Josh Kushner had spent the three days before his brother’s arrival at an investor conference, where Prince Mohammed had promised to spend billions of dollars on a high-tech future for Saudi Arabia.”• Jared Kushner cut ties to Josh’s venture firm, Thrive Capital, including by selling his interest in its funds, after he joined the Trump administration. Previously, he had appeared to be closely involved in Thrive’s operations. Meanwhile, Josh Kushner has kept his distance from his brother.• But, Mr. Kirkpatrick writes, Jared “was nonetheless discussing American policy with the rulers of the kingdom at virtually the same time that his brother was talking business with their top aides.”• “It is reasonable to question Jared Kushner’s ability to be impartial,” Kathleen Clark, a law professor at Washington University in St. Louis, told the NYT.More Kushner news: Charles Kushner, the father of Jared and Josh, has publicly defended both his real estate company and Jared. And the chairman of the House Oversight and Reform Committee claimed that Jared uses WhatsApp for official government business. Policy reversals at the Fed and the European Central Bank often catch economists off guard. But they can have a profound effect on nations that don’t use the dollar or the euro, the WSJ reports.• “Switzerland and countries near the eurozone but not part of it — like Sweden and Denmark — rely on the bloc for much of their exports and imports.”• “That makes growth and inflation highly dependent on the exchange rate.”• “Central-bank stimulus tends to weaken a country’s exchange rate, so when the E.C.B. embraces easy-money policies, as it did two weeks ago, it tends to weaken the euro against other European currencies, such as the Swiss franc.”• “Because the E.C.B. is so large, Switzerland and others can do little to offset it.”As a result, small countries often adopt negative interest rates despite having otherwise healthy economies. That can be costly, particularly for commercial banks that have to pay the equivalent of billions of dollars to store funds.As speculation swirls about the exact timing of Robert Mueller’s imminent submission of his special counsel report on the Russia investigation, James Comey, the former F.B.I. director, writes in an NYT Op-Ed what he hopes to see:• “I have no idea whether the special counsel will conclude that Mr. Trump knowingly conspired with the Russians in connection with the 2016 election or that he obstructed justice with the required corrupt intent. I also don’t care.”• “I am rooting for a demonstration to the world — and maybe most of all to our president and his enablers — that the United States has a justice system that works because there are people who believe in it and rise above personal interest and tribalism.“• What Mr. Comey personally doesn’t want to see: an impeachment of President Trump, because “a significant portion of this country would see this as a coup.”Wells Fargo directors are reportedly in talks to hire Harvey Schwartz, the former president of Goldman Sachs, as their bank’s next C.E.O.Ford Motor hired Tim Stone, who was most recently the chief financial officer of Snap, as its next C.F.O., replacing Bob Shanks.Freddie Mac has named David Brickman, its president, as its next C.E.O., replacing Donald Layton.President Trump plans to name Michael Kratsios as his administration’s first chief technology officer.Deals• Shares in Levi Strauss jumped 31 percent in their first day of trading yesterday. The N.Y.S.E. relaxed its ban on jeans for the I.P.O. — but only for the day. (Reuters, WSJ)• Pinterest reportedly plans to list on the N.Y.S.E. as soon as mid-April. (WSJ)• Uber has reportedly picked the N.Y.S.E. for its I.P.O. (Bloomberg)• Hyundai shareholders rejected Elliott Management’s campaign for board seats and a special dividend. (Reuters)• Rent the Runway, the online clothing rental service, has raised $125 million at a $1 billion valuation. (NYT)Politics and policy• Americans are souring on the Trump tax cuts, in part because they’re receiving smaller refunds, new polling suggests. (NYT)• Economic models, which often accurately predict presidential elections, suggest that President Trump would be re-elected if voting took place today. But economists predict a slowdown between now and 2020, which could change that. (Politico)• Several big Democratic donors have reportedly told Joe Biden that they wouldn’t back him in the early stages of the party’s presidential primary, to see how the field shakes out. (CNBC)• Margrethe Vestager, the E.U.’s antitrust chief, says she will run for president of the European Commission, hoping to succeed Jean-Claude Juncker. (FT)Tech• Facebook stored  millions of user account passwords insecurely. Now might be a good time to read that deleting Facebook from your life isn’t as painful as you might expect. (NYT)• The founder of 8chan, the website where the suspect in the Christchurch, N.Z., shooting posted a missive, thinks the site didn’t move fast enough to take down the message. And distributing the video of the shooting is a crime in the country. (WSJ, NYT)• It looks like Tesla sales are falling. Also, the automaker has accused two groups of former employees of stealing trade secrets. (NYT, Verge)• Walmart is building A.I. in a bid to compete with Amazon. (WSJ)Best of the rest• Michael Steinhardt, a former hedge fund mogul and leading donor to Jewish causes, has been accused of repeated sexual harassment. (NYT)• Lawsuits against JetBlue claim that two of its pilots drugged and raped flight attendants. (NYT)• Here’s everything you need to know about Modern Monetary Theory, but were too afraid to ask. (Bloomberg)Thanks for reading! We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.

Supported byUptickThe high-fat, low-carb diet has swept Hollywood and Instagram. Just ask Al Roker, who said he lost 40 pounds.By Alex WilliamsUptick is a periodic feature that investigates fads, follies and fetishes new and old that are spurring conversation.The hype: Who would have guessed that a high-fat diet that encourages you to double-down on veal shanks and blue cheese would kick up much of a fuss? Kidding! With a nudge from Hollywood and Silicon Valley influencers, the explosively popular ketogenic diet (better known as keto) is the latest low-carb regimen (see Atkins, Paleo, South Beach) to promise a beach-worthy physique with a side order of bacon.Up or down: Trending up, way up. Elevator pitch: Think of it as streamlined Atkins. That low-carb diet, developed by Dr. Robert Atkins in the 1970s, urged followers to gorge on steak and eggs until they achieved ketosis: a state in which the body theoretically burns fat for energy. But it was anything but simple. Devotees had to follow four calibrated stages, starting with quitting carbs cold-turkey, before methodically adding back the apples and brown rice (later variations are less structured). According to Craig Clarke, a keto evangelist and author, the keto diet cuts out the phases but never eases up on the carbs, limiting them to a mere 5 percent of a person’s daily calorie intake (compared to the 50 to 65 percent in the typical American diet). In theory, this hard-line approach turns the body into fat-burning furnace that can smolder for years.Adopters: Funny how a Midwest-friendly diet that preaches meat, meat and more meat has caught on with particular vigor on the vegan-friendly West Coast (sure, there’s vegan keto, but you better have a near-religious attachment to tofu and avocados). Credit Tim Ferriss, Silicon Valley’s life-hacking guru, who said that a keto diet helped him combat Lyme disease. Hollywood stars including Halle Berry, Alicia Vikander and Vanessa Hudgens have helped make keto a certifiable thing by flashing keto-lean bodies on the red carpet.Half-life: While the diet is hardly new (it was developed by Mayo Clinic doctors to treat epilepsy in the 1920s), Google searches for “keto” shot up exponentially around 2017, as searches on “paleo diet” and “Atkins diet” declined. A boost from the A-listers helped turn it into a multi-billion-dollar industry. So did Instagram hashtags like #myketotransformation, where dieters post before-and-after selfies of their ripped bodies. This month, Al Roker announced on the “Today” show that had lost 40 pounds on the diet. “It doesn’t suck,” he said proudly during a keto cooking segment in which he served sloppy Joes with wheat-free buns made of almond powder, psyllium husk and egg whites.Just the facts: The keto diet, like Atkins before it, has its share of critics. It has been associated with high cholesterol, kidney stones, acne and bad breath, but Nina Teicholz, a science journalist and adjunct professor at New York University, says on her website that numerous studies confirm its effectiveness. A study published in November in the journal BMJ, for instance, found that people who replaced carbohydrates with fat in their diets burned about 250 more calories per day than people who binged on carbs. 

Supported byFRONT PAGEAn article on Sunday about black artists finding success after 70 included an erroneous distinction about the artist McArthur Binion’s education. While he earned a graduate degree from the Cranbrook Academy of Art, he was not the first African-American student to do so.•An article on Sunday about the effect of Medicare for All on private health insurance companies misidentified the state Senator Cory Booker represents. It is New Jersey, not California.•An article on Friday about authoritarian governments that hire hackers from the private market misidentified the source of a valuation for the market of so-called lawful intercept spyware. The $12 billion market estimate cited by Moody’s originated from the company NSO, not Moody’s.PAGES A2-A3The “Here to Help” article on Friday, which gave a recipe for penne with peas, pea greens and Parmesan, misspelled the surname of the author. She is Martha Rose Shulman, not Schulman.INTERNATIONALAn article on Saturday about Italy’s decision to join China’s One Belt One Road project misspelled part of the Chinese prime minister’s name. He is Li Keqiang, not Kequiang.•An article on Sunday about a march in London to protest Brexit misidentified where in New York the protester Olivia Leydenfrost grew up. It was in Nyack, not Manhattan.NATIONALA picture with an article on Saturday about the acquittal of the police officer who shot Antwon Rose II, using information from The Associated Press, was published in error. The framed photograph it showed, displayed as part of a memorial in front of the Allegheny County Courthouse, was not of Antwon Rose II.•Because of an editing error, an article on Sunday about the annual Aipac conference referred incorrectly to Senator Amy Klobuchar. It is not the case that she will be speaking this year at the annual conference of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee.•An article on Saturday about Attorney General William P. Barr misstated his age. He is 68, not 69.•An article on Monday about a video made by members of Tau Kappa Epsilon fraternity at the University of Georgia included a quotation from a University of Georgia student that referred incorrectly to Richard B. Russell Jr. While he was a segregationist, he was not a slave owner.NEW YORKAn article on Saturday about the Gambino murder suspect Anthony Comello misidentified the origin of the QAnon conspiracy theory. It was born on the 4chan message board, not on Reddit.BUSINESSAn article on Sunday about Boeing’s competition with Airbus misstated the number of 737 Maxes that Boeing makes a month. It is making a record 52 737s a month, but not all of them are Maxes.•An article on Monday about why people procrastinate referred incorrectly to the university at which Judson Brewer is employed. He is the director of research and innovation at Brown University’s Mindfulness Center, not the director of research at the Center of Mindfulness and associate professor of medicine at the University of Massachusetts Medical School.SPORTSAn article on Saturday about the University of Southern California athletic administrator Donna Heinel misstated one of Ms. Heinel’s titles at U.S.C. She was the senior woman administrator, not the senior women’s administrator.OBITUARIESAn obituary on Feb. 27 about the documentarian Perry Wolff misstated his involvement in the CBS News documentaries “Hunger in America,” “The Selling of the Pentagon” and “You and the Commercial.” He was executive producer, not producer.Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com or call 1-844-NYT-NEWS (1-844-698-6397).Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com or faxed to (212) 556-3622.For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.

Supported byBy Kate CongerSAN FRANCISCO — Uber plans to buy Careem, its largest rival in the Middle East, the American ride-hailing company announced on Tuesday, giving it a strong foothold in the region ahead of its expected public offering.The deal, valued at $3.1 billion, will need regulatory approval and may not be completed until next year.Uber’s public offering, expected next month, could reach a valuation of up to $120 billion, rivaling the 2012 listing of Alibaba, the Chinese e-commerce giant. But Uber has remained unprofitable, burning cash on subsidies for its riders and drivers in an effort to undercut its competition. In the final quarter of 2018, the company lost $865 million on revenue of $3 billion.By taking over its main competition in the Middle East, Uber could cut its losses there. The deal with Careem will also give it access to some countries, like Iraq, Palestine and Morocco, where it does not operate.Uber will pay $1.4 billion in cash and $1.7 billion in convertible notes. Careem will continue to operate under its own brand and remain somewhat independent of Uber. Both companies will continue to offer rides, but may test certain features on one platform before introducing them on the other.The deal is a break from Uber’s approach in some other regions. Uber has sold majority stakes of its businesses in Russia, China and Southeast Asia to local competitors after deciding to avoid price wars in those areas. Those deals briefly put Uber in the black for the first time in the company’s history.“With a proven ability to develop innovative local solutions, Careem has played a key role in shaping the future of urban mobility across the Middle East, becoming one of the most successful start-ups in the region,” Dara Khosrowshahi, Uber’s chief executive, said in a statement.Careem was founded in 2012 as a corporate car service but eventually adopted a ride-hailing model similar to Uber’s. The company is based in Dubai and operates in 15 countries, including Egypt and Saudi Arabia. It recently expanded into food delivery and payments, seeking to establish itself as a one-stop shop for consumers. Private investors valued the company at about $2 billion last year.But Uber’s deal could raise privacy concerns. As the company planned its expansion in Egypt in 2017, government officials there asked it to provide real-time access to users’ location data. Uber declined, arguing that it had never provided real-time access to governments, but Careem was more open to cooperating with the government.In 2018, hackers stole personal data for 14 million users from Careem. To address these concerns, Careem’s security and legal teams will report directly to Uber, according to a person familiar with the deal. The person would speak only on the condition of anonymity ahead of Uber’s public offering.Mr. Khosrowshahi said in an email to employees that both Uber and Careem would benefit from operating independently.“This framework has the advantage of letting us build new products and try new ideas across not one but two strong brands, with strong operators within each,” Mr. Khosrowshahi wrote. Over time, Uber and Careem will integrate some elements of the other’s products, he added.Careem will be guided by its own board, with two members from Careem and three from Uber.“The mobility and broader internet opportunity in the region is massive and untapped, and has the potential to leapfrog our region into the digital future,” Mudassir Sheikha, Careem’s co-founder and chief executive, said in a statement.Follow Kate Conger on Twitter: @kateconger.

Supported byBy Charlie SavageWASHINGTON — Chelsea Manning, the former Army intelligence analyst who sent archives of secret military and diplomatic documents to WikiLeaks in 2010, said on Thursday that she had refused to answer questions about her interactions with the antisecrecy organization before a grand jury — and might be sent to jail as soon as Friday.Ms. Manning had been imprisoned for about seven years before President Barack Obama commuted most of the remainder of her 35-year sentence in 2017, and she was released from a military prison in May of that year. Her defiance of the subpoena means she may be imprisoned again after a judge holds a closed hearing about her legal arguments and whether to hold her in contempt of court.“The court may find me in contempt and order me to jail,” she said in a statement, adding: “In solidarity with many activists facing the odds, I will stand by my principles. I will exhaust every legal remedy available. My legal team continues to challenge the secrecy of these proceedings, and I am prepared to face the consequences of my refusal.”Ms. Manning also confirmed that — as widely suspected — prosecutors wanted to ask her about WikiLeaks. Prosecutors in the Eastern District of Virginia have been investigating the organization for years, and inadvertently revealed last year that they had charged its leader, Julian Assange, under seal.“All of the substantive questions pertained to my disclosures of information to the public in 2010 — answers I provided in extensive testimony, during my court-martial in 2013,” Ms. Manning said.Prosecutors had bestowed legal immunity on Ms. Manning for her testimony, she said, but she responded to each question by saying she refused to answer because it violated her constitutional rights.It had not been clear what the charge against Mr. Assange, who has been living for years in the Ecuadorean Embassy in London to avoid arrest, pertained to: WikiLeaks’ role in publishing leaked, classified documents, or its role in publishing the Democratic emails stolen by Russian government hackers during the 2016 presidential campaign.The disclosure that prosecutors are newly refocused on Ms. Manning’s early interactions with the organization indicates that the case most likely relates to the publication of classified information — a case that would raise novel First Amendment issues. The Obama administration had weighed charging Mr. Assange in connection with Ms. Manning’s disclosures, but decided against it over fears of chilling investigative journalism.After Ms. Manning disclosed her subpoena to The New York Times last week, The Daily Beast reported that David House, an activist and member of a support network for Ms. Manning during the 2010-11 era of legal and activist wrangling over WikiLeaks’ publication of her leaks, had been granted immunity and testified last year before the same grand jury about his interactions with the group.Joshua Stueve, a spokesman for the United States attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia, declined to comment.Judge Claude M. Hilton, who was appointed to the Federal District Court in that district by President Ronald Reagan in 1985, will decide whether to accept Ms. Manning’s arguments for why she had a right to refuse to answer the questions or to send her to jail. He previously declined her request to quash the subpoena before she knew what she would be asked.Follow Charlie Savage on Twitter: @charlie_savage.

Supported byBy Ben DooleyTOKYO — A Tokyo court handed down a two-and-a-half-year prison sentence on Friday to the former head of Mt. Gox, a cryptocurrency exchange that helped establish Bitcoin as a household name before spectacularly imploding amid allegations of mismanagement.Still, Mark Karpelès, the French national who presided over Mt. Gox’s rise to become the world’s largest Bitcoin exchange, will not serve additional time if he remains on good behavior.The verdict ended a more-than-five-year ordeal for Mr. Karpelès, who was found guilty on a charge of falsifying data but innocent of two additional charges of embezzlement and breach of trust. He was arrested in August 2015 and held for almost a year in detention, where he spent months under interrogation by prosecutors who upped the pressure by adding more charges against him.His sentence was suspended for four years, effectively meaning he will serve no additional jail time as long as he remains on good behavior.Critics of Japanese justice said that Mr. Karpelès’s experience presented a case study in the system’s faults. Prosecutors first enlisted Mr. Karpelès to assist in investigating Mt. Gox’s loss of 850,000 Bitcoins, then valued at around half a billion dollars. Before long, their suspicions shifted to Mr. Karpelès himself. He apologized for “weaknesses in the system” but denied that he had taken any of his clients’ assets.His long detention is a common tactic in Japan, where nearly 99 out of 100 indictments end in conviction — an outcome sometimes obtained through confessions made under duress. In 2017, 88 percent of those who went to trial confessed, according to data maintained by Japan’s Supreme Court.That pattern has come under increased scrutiny since the arrest of Carlos Ghosn, then the chairman of Nissan, in November; he was held in jail and interviewed continually by prosecutors until this month, when he was granted bail.Mt. Gox started its life as a trading platform for the collectible card game Magic the Gathering before making a transition to cryptocurrency. Mr. Karpelès bought the company from its founder in 2011.Business exploded after the site was mentioned in an article explaining how to use Bitcoin to buy goods on Silk Road, a sort of eBay for black market goods, especially illegal drugs. At its height, nearly 70 percent of all Bitcoin transactions were said to flow through Mt. Gox’s servers.But the company had difficulty handling the demand. Plagued by technical and legal troubles, it declared bankruptcy in early 2014, after it was revealed to have lost track of more than 850,000 Bitcoins.Mr. Karpelès maintained throughout that he was innocent. And almost two years ago, prosecutors in the United States implicated someone else in the disappearance.In July 2017, American prosecutors indicted Alexander Vinnik, a Russian national who they say received and laundered hacked funds from the company. He was arrested in Greece, where he has become the subject of an extradition battle among the United States, Russia and France. Mr. Vinnik’s lawyer has denied the charges against him.That indictment, Mr. Karpelès’s lawyer argued, helped established the innocence of his own client, who he said had worked to right the failed company.The judgment has closed one chapter in Mr. Karpelès story, but the fate of Mt. Gox remains open. The company still controls substantial cryptocurrency assets, though many claims against it remain outstanding, according to the trustee.An earlier version of this article misstated when Mark Karpelès was sentenced. It was Friday, not Monday.

Supported byBy Elizabeth A. HarrisBefore the hacking of Sony Pictures and the Democratic National Committee, before the News of the World tabloid broke into voice-mail messages and before the first WikiLeak, there was Anthony Pellicano.Mr. Pellicano was a private investigator in Hollywood, a man who drove around town with a baseball bat in his trunk and who was very good at uncovering people’s secrets. He ran a vast surveillance operation out of his office with a sprawling network of wiretaps. If you needed an unpleasant issue to go away, or a nasty tidbit to improve your standing in a divorce or business dispute, he was the go-to guy.He wiretapped the actors Sylvester Stallone and Keith Carradine, and did work on behalf of Chris Rock and Courtney Love, among many others. He conducted an illegal criminal background check on Garry Shandling, threatened a journalist and, according to testimony at his trial, even offered to have a producer murdered, his body buried in the desert. He had been behind bars since 2003.On Friday, the private eye who intimately knew Hollywood’s underbelly — and, some would say, was its leading man — walked out of a Los Angeles federal prison at the end of his sentence and was free for the first time in more than 15 years.Though it has been a long time since Hollywood last heard much from the man who heard its private conversations, he is hardly forgotten, and some of those he investigated were dreading this day.“It’s certainly not comforting,” said Jude Green, who testified that Mr. Pellicano threatened her during her divorce. “I’m looking for peace and harmony — I’ve had enough excitement.”Friends and former employers have not forgotten him, either. Some have contributed to a trust fund worth “in the tens of thousands” to help Mr. Pellicano get by, according to a person familiar with the fund who declined to be identified because it was a private effort. Requests for an interview with Mr. Pellicano, placed through a lawyer, went unanswered.Mr. Pellicano, who turned 75 on Friday, was originally known as an audio expert from Chicago. He was used as an expert witness by prosecutors and hired by The New York Times in 1979 to determine if the voice on a recording belonged to the former shah of Iran.By the 1990s, he had set up shop as a private investigator in Los Angeles who wouldn’t open a case without a $25,000 retainer and could charge clients hundreds of thousands of dollars. A former employee testified that in his offices on Sunset Boulevard, a Los Angeles police officer on the take would swing by to pick up stacks of hundred dollar bills, and a half-dozen iMacs sat recording phone calls in his “war room.” As recently as last year, he teased in an interview with the The Hollywood Reporter that he might — just might — have Mafia connections.“If you tried to connect me to organized crime, you probably could get close — but no cigar,” he said.In 2002, his career began to unravel spectacularly. A reporter named Anita Busch, who had written for The New York Times and The Los Angeles Times, had recently published articles about the waning career of Michael Ovitz, one of the founders of the Creative Artists Agency and a former president of the Walt Disney Company. That summer, she found what appeared to be a bullet hole in her windshield, along with a dead fish and a rose on a tin tray on the hood of her car. A note was taped to her car that said, “Stop.”She later sued Mr. Ovitz for hiring Mr. Pellicano. According to court documents, she said that her phone had been tapped, her computer hacked and her hard drive erased. She said that two men in a Mercedes had tried to run her over and that she had been warned that someone planned to blow up her car. Mr. Ovitz planned to argue that the fish was Steven Seagal’s fault — Ms. Busch had been reporting about Mr. Seagal as well — though the F.B.I. found no persuasive evidence that the actor was involved, according to The Hollywood Reporter.She and Mr. Ovitz settled out of court. He did not respond to a request for comment.While investigating the threat against Ms. Busch, the authorities found grenades and C-4 explosives in a safe in Mr. Pellicano’s office. He was sentenced to 30 months on weapons charges. In 2008, he was convicted again, this time on more than 70 charges including racketeering, wire fraud and wiretapping, and he had been in prison until this day.“My code word when I would call the F.B.I.,” Ms. Green said, “was C-4.”Ms. Green said that Mr. Pellicano cornered her outside a Santa Monica, Calif., dog groomer where she had taken her Shih Tzu for a haircut. He blocked her car and got in her face, then followed her to a Peet’s Coffee, where he boxed her in again and then shoved her inside the store. She said that she yelled to make a scene and fled.Mr. Pellicano often represented himself in various cases, preferring to refer to himself in the third person. This sometimes created a difficult situation for witnesses and a variety of odd scenes.Neville Johnson represented the plaintiffs in several lawsuits against Mr. Pellicano and other organizations, including the Los Angeles and Beverly Hills police departments, where Mr. Pellicano had officers feeding him confidential information.Mr. Johnson recalled that during a deposition at a federal prison in Big Spring, Tex., Mr. Pellicano would say things like “I hereby instruct myself not to answer.”That deposition got off to an inauspicious beginning. As Mr. Pellicano sat in the prison cafeteria in his jailhouse uniform, the court reporter instructed him to raise his right hand and asked if he swore to tell the truth.“He said ‘no,’” Mr. Johnson recalled.In addition to his other recordings, Mr. Pellicano was fond of taping his own phone calls — including incriminating ones — and many of those were recovered by investigators. But the F.B.I. suspected there were even more recordings, because on the tapes they did find, Mr. Pellicano spoke about storing some audio files outside his office.Or so said an F.B.I. agent, Jonathan Mosser, when he was cross-examined by Mr. Pellicano at his trial:Mr. Pellicano: Who was the person that told you that Mr. Pellicano took audio files and stored them off site?Agent Mosser: Mr. Pellicano.Mr. Pellicano: Mr. Pellicano?Mr. Mosser: Yes. Mr. Pellicano: When did Mr. Pellicano tell you that he stored information off site?Mr. Mosser: In the audio recordings.Those tapes were never recovered.Mr. Pellicano very likely could have faced less time in prison if he had cooperated with the authorities, but he never talked. In his interview last year with The Hollywood Reporter, he discussed “omerta,” the Mafia code of silence, and the value of keeping secrets. Among them, he said, were Michael Jackson’s. Mr. Pellicano worked for Mr. Jackson in the 1990s but said he quit when he learned what The Hollywood Reporter described as “truths even darker than those alleged in Jackson’s molestation scandal.” The Jackson family and estate have denied all allegations of sexual misconduct against him.Mr. Pellicano emerges into a world of technology and surveillance vastly different from the one he left behind. With the landscape so changed, and his private investigator license revoked, it is not clear how he will make money now. Lawyers who sued Mr. Pellicano usually gave up because he had no money to pay any judgments.He does, however, emerge with his secrets, and whatever value they possess. In a Newsweek interview in 2011, he claimed that he had offers to publish an autobiography, but that he could not write it because the clamor of prison was too distracting.Bert Fields, a prominent entertainment lawyer in Los Angeles who had worked with Mr. Pellicano over many years, recalled him as doing “superb work.” (Mr. Fields was investigated in connection with Mr. Pellicano’s activities but said he had not used any wiretaps in any of his cases, and he was not charged.)Mr. Fields said he made a “minor contribution” to Mr. Pellicano’s post-release trust fund.“He served his time and paid his dues, and I felt it was appropriate to make a contribution,” he said. “It had absolutely nothing with trying to keep him quiet or anything like that, and if anyone were to say that, I would probably sue them.”Amy Chozick contributed reporting.

Supported byBy Cade MetzHALF MOON BAY, Calif. — When a news article revealed that Clarifai was working with the Pentagon and some employees questioned the ethics of building artificial intelligence that analyzed video captured by drones, the company said the project would save the lives of civilians and soldiers.“Clarifai’s mission is to accelerate the progress of humanity with continually improving A.I.,” read a blog post from Matt Zeiler, the company’s founder and chief executive, and a prominent A.I. researcher. Later, in a news media interview, Mr. Zeiler announced a new management position that would ensure all company projects were ethically sound.As activists, researchers, and journalists voice concerns over the rise of artificial intelligence, warning against biased, deceptive and malicious applications, the companies building this technology are responding. From tech giants like Google and Microsoft to scrappy A.I. start-ups, many are creating corporate principles meant to ensure their systems are designed and deployed in an ethical way. Some set up ethics officers or review boards to oversee these principles.But tensions continue to rise as some question whether these promises will ultimately be kept. Companies can change course. Idealism can bow to financial pressure. Some activists — and even some companies — are beginning to argue that the only way to ensure ethical practices is through government regulation.“We don’t want to see a commercial race to the bottom,” Brad Smith, Microsoft’s president and chief legal officer, said at the New Work Summit in Half Moon Bay, Calif., hosted last week by The New York Times. “Law is needed.”The new ethics position at Clarifai never materialized. As this New York City start-up pushed further into military applications and facial recognition services, some employees grew increasingly concerned their work would end up feeding automated warfare or mass surveillance. In late January, on a company message board, they posted an open letter asking Mr. Zeiler where their work was headed.A few days later, Mr. Zeiler held a companywide meeting, according to three people who spoke on the condition that they not be identified for fear of retaliation. He explained that internal ethics officers did not suit a small company like Clarifai. And he told the employees that Clarifai technology would one day contribute to autonomous weapons.Clarifai specializes in technology that instantly recognizes objects in photos and video. Policymakers call this a “dual-use technology.” It has everyday commercial applications, like identifying designer handbags on a retail website, as well as military applications, like identifying targets for drones.This and other rapidly advancing forms of artificial intelligence can improve transportation, health care and scientific research. Or they can feed mass surveillance, online phishing attacks and the spread of false news.As companies and governments deploy these A.I. technologies, researchers are also realizing that some systems are woefully biased. Facial recognition services, for instance, can be significantly less accurate when trying to identify women or someone with darker skin. Other systems may include security holes unlike any seen in the past. Researchers have shown that driverless cars can be fooled into seeing things that are not really there.All this means that building ethical artificial intelligence is an enormously complex task. It gets even harder when stakeholders realize that ethics are in the eye of the beholder.As some Microsoft employees protest the company’s military contracts, Mr. Smith said that American tech companies had long supported the military and that they must continue to do so. “The U.S. military is charged with protecting the freedoms of this country,” he told the conference. “We have to stand by the people who are risking their lives.”Though some Clarifai employees draw an ethical line at autonomous weapons, others do not. Mr. Zeiler argued that autonomous weapons will ultimately save lives because they would be more accurate than weapons controlled by human operators. “A.I. is an essential tool in helping weapons become more accurate, reducing collateral damage, minimizing civilian casualties and friendly fire incidents,” he said in a statement.Google worked on the same Pentagon project as Clarifai, and after a protest from company employees, the tech giant ultimately ended its involvement. But like Clarifai, as many as 20 other companies have worked on the project without bowing to ethical concerns.After the controversy over its Pentagon work, Google laid down a set of “A.I. principles” meant as a guide for future projects. But even with the corporate rules in place, some employees left the company in protest. The new principles are open to interpretation. And they are overseen by executives who must also protect the company’s financial interests.“You functionally have situations where the foxes are guarding the henhouse,” said Liz Fong-Jones, a former Google employee who left the company late last year.In 2014, when Google acquired DeepMind, perhaps the world’s most important A.I. lab, the company agreed to set up an external review board that would ensure the lab’s research would not be used in military applications or otherwise unethical projects. But five years later, it is still unclear whether this board even exists.Google, Microsoft, Facebook and other companies have created organizations like the Partnership on A.I. that aim to guide the practices of the entire industry. But these operations are largely toothless.The most significant changes have been driven by employee protests, like the one at Google, and pointed research from academics and other independent experts. After Amazon employees protested the sale of facial recognition services to police departments and various academic studies highlighted the bias that plagues these services, Amazon and Microsoft called for government regulation in this area.“People are recognizing there are issues, and they are recognizing they want to change them,” said Meredith Whittaker, a Google employee and the co-founder of the AI Now Institute, a research institute that examines the social implications of artificial intelligence. But she also told the conference that this change was slow to happen, as the forces of capitalism continued to drive these companies toward greater profits.Employees at Clarifai worry that the same technological tools that drive facial recognition will ultimately lead to autonomous weapons — and that flaws in these tools will open a Pandora’s box of problems. “We in the industry know that technology can be compromised. Hackers hack. Bias is unavoidable,” read the open letter to Mr. Zeiler.Thousands of A.I. researchers from across the industry have signed a separate open letter saying they will oppose autonomous weapons.The Pentagon has said that artificial intelligence built by the likes of Google and Clarifai has not been used for offensive purposes. And it is now building its own set of ethical principles, realizing it needs the support of industry, which has snapped up most of the world’s top A.I. researchers in recent years.But many policy experts say they believe these principles are unlikely to hold any more influence than those laid down at the big corporations, especially because the Pentagon is motivated to keep pace with China, Russia and other international rivals as they develop similar technology. For that reason, some are calling for international treaties that would bar the use of autonomous weapons.In their open letter, the Clarifai employees said they were unsure whether regulation was the answer to the many ethical questions swirling around A.I. technology, arguing that the immediate responsibility rested with the company itself.“Regulation slows progress, and our species needs progress to survive the many threats that face us today,” they wrote, addressing Mr. Zeiler and the rest of the company. “We need to be ethical enough to be trusted to make this technology on our own, and we owe it to the public to define our ethics clearly.”But their letter did not have the desired effect. In the days after Mr. Zeiler explained that Clarifai would most likely contribute to autonomous weapons, the employee who wrote the letter and was originally tapped to serve as an ethics adviser, Liz O’Sullivan, left the company.Researchers and activists like Ms. Whittaker see this as a moment when tech employees can use their power to drive change. But they have also said this must happen outside tech companies as well as within.“We need regulation,” Ms. Whittaker said, before name-dropping Microsoft’s chief legal officer. “Even Brad Smith says we need regulation.”

Supported byWhat to CookBy Sam SiftonGood morning. I wanted to make Trini-Chinese chicken (above) for the family, but one of the kids doesn’t eat chicken anymore. I thought maybe I’d try it with thin pork chops instead, grill them hard, paint them with sauce. But the other kid shook her head. “Lamb,” she said. “And can you make it with ground? Like ground lamb?”This dinner was shaping up to be something else. I didn’t have five-spice powder. So I swapped in some fresh Jamaican curry powder. I didn’t have hot sauce either, because Matouk’s is so good I run out all the time. I used a whole habanero in its place, diced, and a couple of carrots and shallots, same, with a pinch of brown sugar. I used a whole lot less oil to fry the meat, didn’t “paint” anything but just dumped the component sauces in the recipe into the curry-dusted ground lamb as if making sloppy Joes, and added the lime juice at the end.I was a long way from the source material by the time I got to serving it. The meal looked, as a guy once described the sausage gravy he was serving me at a diner in Charlottesville, Va., like “one hy-eck of a mess.”But it was delicious and the kids cleaned their plates and I went to bed happy and that could be your Sunday dinner: hack chicken? Lamb surprise? If not, you could make the original recipe. Or if not that either, there is always broccoli and Cheddar soup.Want to stay on the soup for Monday, meatless and flavorful? I like this butternut squash and green curry number; and this coconut curry one as well, with sweet potato and kale. (Sick of soup? Have pasta with broccoli-walnut pesto instead.)For Tuesday, you could fire up the pressure cooker or Instant Pot to make chipotle chicken pozole. That’s good.Wednesday: Pasta alla vodka. Or make vodka sauce and use it on pan pizza. Extra cheese, please.Thursday dinner, I’m thinking, could be lentils diavolo. It’s a smart dish. Big flavor.And then you can finish the week on a high note, aesthetically, with Alison Roman’s ace recipe for skillet-roasted whole fish with citrus and soy. It’s a beautiful preparation in addition to being delicious.Thousands more recipes to cook this week are arranged in a cool database that awaits you on NYT Cooking. (I like this collection of recipes for exhausted new parents. Also this roundup of recipes for our best chocolate chip cookies.) If you haven’t already, take out a subscription to our site and apps, and begin your search.You can find beautiful pictures of food and links to news articles about food on our Instagram and Twitter feeds — and you can talk about whatever you want to talk about in our NYT Cooking community on Facebook as well. If you run into problems with that or anything else, please ask us for help: cookingcare@nytimes.com. We’re all about service. It is why we are here.Now, it’s a funny thing they asked me because I’m from Brooklyn my whole life, but Down East magazine brought me on as guest editor this month, to help curate their annual Maine food issue, and I think it all worked out well. Take a look.It’s nothing to do with eating or cooking and I can’t even tell you the name of the band because it’s a profanity and we’re enjoined from using those in The Times, but one of my favorite Canada-flavored punkish bands ever has a new record out and, with it, a video for the title track, “Dose Your Dreams.”I’ve been wrestling with Yannick Haenel’s “Hold Fast Your Crown” for a few weeks now, caught between amusement and boredom, but Sarah Lyall reviewed the novel last week and now, armed with her insight, I think I’ll push through to the end, hoping the funny wins out. Maybe you’ll join me? It publishes this week.Finally, “Fosse/Verdon” is coming to FX real soon (Sam Rockwell! Michelle Williams! Norbert Leo Butz!) and you should watch the trailer today so you remember to mark your calendar for appointment viewing: Tuesday night, April 9. I’ll see you tomorrow.cookingcooking

Supported byBy Mark Mazzetti and Katie BennerWASHINGTON — The investigation led by Robert S. Mueller III found no evidence that President Trump or any of his aides coordinated with the Russian government’s 2016 election interference, according to a summary of the special counsel’s key findings made public on Sunday by Attorney General William P. Barr.Mr. Mueller, who spent nearly two years investigating Moscow’s determined effort to sabotage the last presidential election, found no conspiracy “despite multiple offers from Russian-affiliated individuals to assist the Trump campaign,” Mr. Barr wrote in a letter to lawmakers.Mr. Mueller’s team drew no conclusions about whether Mr. Trump illegally obstructed justice, Mr. Barr said, so he made his own decision. The attorney general and his deputy, Rod J. Rosenstein, determined that the special counsel’s investigators had insufficient evidence to establish that the president committed that offense.He cautioned, however, that Mr. Mueller’s report states that “while this report does not conclude that the president committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him” on the obstruction of justice issue.Still, the release of the findings was a significant political victory for Mr. Trump and lifted a cloud that has hung over his presidency since before he took the oath of office. It is also likely to alter discussion in Congress about the fate of the Trump presidency; some Democrats had pledged to wait until the special counsel finished his work before deciding whether to initiate impeachment proceedings.The letter, by Attorney General William P. Barr, details the main findings of the special counsel’s two-year investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election.[Read the key Mueller findings.]The president trumpeted the news almost immediately, even as he mischaracterized the special counsel’s findings. “It was a complete and total exoneration,” Mr. Trump told reporters in Florida before boarding Air Force One. “It’s a shame that our country had to go through this. To be honest, it’s a shame that your president has had to go through this.”He added, “This was an illegal takedown that failed.”Mr. Barr’s letter was the culmination of a tense two days since Mr. Mueller delivered his report to the Justice Department. Mr. Barr spent the weekend poring over the special counsel’s work, as Mr. Trump strategized with lawyers and political aides at his Mar-a-Lago estate in Florida.Mr. Mueller, who has been a spectral presence in the capital for nearly two years — so often discussed, but so rarely seen — was photographed leaving a church on Sunday morning just across Lafayette Square from the White House.transcriptHosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Theo Balcomb and Jessica Cheung, and edited by Lisa TobinWhat does the Mueller report say? The attorney general offered an early glimpse.michael schmidtHello? Hello? Hello?maggie habermanHello.michael schmidtMaggie?maggie habermanHi.michael schmidtCan you hear me?maggie habermanYes, can you hear me?michael schmidtYeah, hold on, hold on, hold on. Wearing two headphones right now.maggie habermanMm. Sounds about right.michael schmidtCan you hear me? Oh, that’s better.maggie habermanWe gotcha. We’re just waiting on the star.michael barbaroHi.maggie habermanIt’s Michael Barbaro, host of “The Daily.”michael schmidtDoo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo.michael barbaroFrom The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today — Attorney General William Barr has sent a letter to Congress summarizing the findings of the special counsel investigation: No coordination with Russia. More complicated on obstruction of justice. My colleagues Maggie Haberman and Mike Schmidt explain. It’s Monday, March 25. O.K. Maggie, like, it is 6:00 p.m. on Sunday evening. Two hours ago, the attorney general, Bill Barr, sent a letter to congressional leaders outlining the major conclusions of the special counsel’s report.michael schmidtThe report is broken into two parts. The first one is on the biggest, most central question that has surrounded the president since he was elected: What are the ties between his campaign and Russia? And on that issue, Barr is unequivocal.michael barbaroWhat does he say?michael schmidtHe says there are no ties between what Russia did in the election and Trump’s campaign. That despite how aggressively the Russians tried to interfere in our election, and even outreach that they made to the campaign, they were able to find no evidence that they actually worked together.michael barbaroBut Mike, help me understand this. In the lead-up to the report, the Mueller investigation issued a number of subpoenas and charges that felt like they revealed forms of collusion. I’m thinking about Papadopoulos, Manafort, a meeting inside Trump Tower that involved the president’s son and his son-in-law. Those all felt like forms of collusion.michael schmidtI think that what went on was that the Trump campaign was sort of collusion-curious in the sense that they were open to sort of talking to anyone about anything. And the Russians were reaching out right. And that meant that there were a lot of odd contacts that occurred. What I think Mueller and Barr are saying is that even though a lot of that stuff looks funky, we have no evidence that they linked hands and tried to work together to hurt Clinton.michael barbaroSo collusion-curious does not equal coordination.maggie habermanNo. Being interested in getting information is something that you have heard either the president say or people around the president say. You know, of course, we took these meetings. Of course when people reached out to us, we listened to them. Who wouldn’t? Their argument has been that they were just doing what anyone would do. And the other argument they’ve made repeatedly is that they were too discombobulated and too green and too new at this to even know how to collude. And as someone who covered that campaign, I can tell you there is some logic to that argument.michael barbaroAs somebody who’s slightly more removed from the day to day of this investigation than either of you, it’s starting to feel from this summary from Bill Barr of the Mueller report that what the investigation found was what we all kind of knew the investigation found as it was finding. That there was nothing all that big being held back. And that helps us understand this conclusion.maggie habermanWhat we saw in indictments either of Paul Manafort, or of his deputy Rick Gates, who pleaded guilty, or of Mike Flynn or George Papadopoulos, this might have been, it seems, all there was. This was all the information that they were able to prove existed.michael barbaroMike, what do you think of that?michael schmidtLet’s go back and look at the indictments and guilty pleas. George Papadopoulos, a campaign official who had contacts with individuals who said the Russians were going to be releasing information about Hillary Clinton’s emails before it came out. When George Papadopoulos pleads guilty, he does not plead guilty to conspiring with the Russians. He pleads guilty to making false statements to investigators about that contact. The president’s former national security adviser, Michael Flynn, has these odd phone calls with the Russian ambassador during the transition in which they discuss lifting sanctions that have just been imposed by the Obama administration for election meddling. When Mike Flynn goes into court to plead guilty, he doesn’t plead guilty to conspiring with the Russians. He pleads guilty to making false statements to the F.B.I. about it. So as we went along in the investigation over the past 22 months, we never saw charges that said that the campaign conspired with Russia. There was some question — was Mueller holding out something like that until the end? Was he going to wait and then make a move on it? Well, today, we know that they never found anything.michael barbaroRight. He wasn’t making those kinds of indictments because he didn’t have any evidence of it.maggie habermanOr at least he didn’t have enough to bring an indictment. I mean, he might have found strains of information, he might have found pieces along the way, but it clearly was not enough to bring a charge.michael barbaroSo in the end, this was a bunch of people around the president lying, perhaps to avoid what might look like coordination if they were going to tell the truth, but not actually coordinating, according to the legal definition.michael schmidtCorrect.michael barbaroAnd what about the second question in this letter, the question of obstruction of justice? What does Barr’s summary of the Mueller report say about that?michael schmidtSo the obstruction part is not nearly as clean-cut as the collusion section. On obstruction, Barr essentially says that Mueller did not come to his own determination on whether the president obstructed justice. That Mueller could not indict or exonerate the president for that charge. But that left the door open for Barr to say, look, Mueller has not made a determination on this. I, as the attorney general, along with the deputy attorney general, Rod Rosenstein, will make that call. And we do not believe there is a case to be made the president obstructed justice.michael barbaroI don’t quite understand what’s going on here. Why do we think, Mike, that Mueller declined to weigh in on this question of obstruction of justice? Why leave it kind of up in the air?maggie habermanThere’s not really a full explanation for that. And I’m not sure. For the past 22 months, Democrats and a lot of folks in the media have built Mueller up as sort of this paragon of justice, and someone who was willing and able to go out and make determinations and calls on really tough issues in non-partisan, follow-the-facts ways. And here, we have Mueller essentially saying, I don’t really have a determination on it. For each of the relevant actions, the letter says, that were investigated, the report sets out evidence on both sides of the question and leaves unresolved what the special counsel views as, quote, “difficult issues of law and fact concerning whether the president’s actions and intent could be viewed as obstruction.” The special counsel states that, quote, “while this report does not conclude the president committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him.”michael barbaroLet’s pick apart what I think we can all agree is the most salient example of this, where maybe disentangling motive and law and obstruction of justice is really tangled up. And that would be the firing of James Comey. The president at first says it’s not about Russia, then goes on television, says, it really is about Russia. And yet we all know that the president can pretty much fire anyone at that level if he wants to. Is that what Bill Barr, in summarizing Mueller, is saying? That this stuff is just really difficult, and so we’re not making a call?maggie habermanMueller is saying this is really difficult, and it’s hard to get in the president’s head and know what his intent was and his frame of mind was. And he decides that he is not going to be the one to make that call. Bill Barr, not wanting, I think, to leave this as an open-ended thing puts a pin in it and says, this is done.michael barbaroAnd says, I will make that call.maggie habermanI will make that call. And we do not believe that this is sufficient to say that the president obstructed justice. And remember, obstruction of justice was key to Richard Nixon. This was a piece that the president’s folks were worried about. They had felt really confident the whole time that there would not be an evidence-based case of conspiracy related to Russia. But they were concerned about what it would find on the obstruction piece.michael schmidtInterestingly — and I still don’t think this issue has gotten enough attention — the central question here was the president’s intent when he took actions like firing Comey. But at the end of the day, the president of the United States never sat for an interview with investigators to answer those questions. So here you have the attorney general saying, this thing is done, but we’ve never heard from Donald Trump on it. And the reason we never heard from Donald Trump on it was that his lawyers were so afraid that if he sat down to answer questions, he would make a factually inaccurate statement and would increase his criminal exposure.michael barbaroAnd it’s within the president’s rights not to sit down for such an interview.michael schmidtThat’s not true. The Justice Department could have subpoenaed him for an interview.michael barbaroBut why didn’t they?michael schmidtOne of the unanswered questions in this. But in an investigation where the central question was what was the president’s intent, Bob Mueller was never able to ask him that question.michael barbaroBut he wasn’t able to ask him the question because he never issued a subpoena. He never pursued all legal avenues?maggie habermanWe don’t know whether he pursued a legal avenue and was told that there wasn’t sufficient anything to go get a subpoena, or whether he just didn’t seek one. And that is, to me right now as we sit here, an open question. I don’t know whether Bob Mueller actually sought to go after this subpoena, which a lot of people thought that he would do. We’re not going to know for some time.michael schmidtBut what we did learn on Friday when Barr first announced the end of the Mueller investigation was there was no instance in the investigation where Mueller wanted to take a major step, like indict someone, or subpoena them, or get a search warrant, in which he was told by his superiors at the Justice Department that he could not do that. So that would sort of bolster the argument that Mueller was not stopped by the Justice Department from seeking a subpoena to interview the president. He’s saying there were no instances in which Mueller was stopped from moving forward with something he wanted to do.michael barbaroNo matter what, in this moment where so much of this second question of obstruction of justice comes down to the president’s motivation, which is essentially a matter of getting into someone’s head, never hearing from President Trump feels very significant.maggie habermanIt’s a huge deal. Barr lays it out in this letter to Congress about what Mueller’s thinking was, where he describes that the report sets out evidence on both sides of the question. And I think what you have there is the president’s lawyers have repeatedly offered up explanations for why the president could have been doing something that were not necessarily nefarious or that were not undermining. And the main thing that they have said over and over is, this isn’t obstruction because it’s all playing out in public. It’s not hidden. He has a right to express his views as a citizen of the country. And I anticipate that should we ever see what is in this report, that is going to show up a lot.michael schmidtWhen Maggie and I would talk to Rudy Giuliani during the investigation —michael barbaroThe president’s lawyer.michael schmidtHe would say things like, obstruction of justice and trying to interfere in an investigation is going into a dark alley and threatening to break someone’s leg if they cooperate with investigators. It’s bribing someone to not testify. But what Giuliani said is that all this stuff is happening out in the open. He’s not trying to twist anyone’s arm. He’s just blowing off steam about the investigation. And what conspiracy is there in that?michael barbaroWere either of you surprised by either of these actions outlined in this letter when it comes to obstruction of justice — by Mueller declining to make a call, or by Barr being so quick to make a call?maggie habermanI was not surprised that Mueller didn’t make a call. I was surprised that Barr moved so quickly. I did not think that the collusion aspect of this letter was going to be revelatory, but I did think that the obstruction one possibly would be. And it shuts it down definitively. There is a piece of the letter that we haven’t talked about, which is that Bill Barr, the attorney general, tells Congress that Robert Mueller, the special counsel, recognized that, quote, “the evidence does not establish that the president was involved in an underlying crime related to Russian election interference. And that while not determinative, the absence of such evidence bears upon the president’s intent with respect to obstruction.” So a big piece of the thinking for Barr seems to have been that since there is not an underlying crime that was found related to the president, that obstruction is harder to prove.michael barbaroIn other words, there is a connection between these two questions. Between coordination and obstruction of justice. That if there was no coordination, if there is no original sin, then it’s hard to establish that there was obstruction of justice.maggie habermanRight. If there is no crime that was committed, it is hard to suggest that the president was trying to obstruct justice in the course of pursuing evidence about that crime. And that is an argument that Mike and I also heard the president’s lawyers say repeatedly, which was that there couldn’t be obstruction of justice because there’s nothing to obstruct.michael barbaroDoes that seem like universally sound legal logic? That you can’t commit a crime in obstructing investigations into something that wasn’t a crime? Because it certainly feels like if someone’s investigating me, and I decide to stop the investigation in violation of the law, that that could be itself a violation of a law, separate and apart from whether or not what I was being investigated for in the first place was a crime? I mean, are those two things necessarily connected?michael schmidtI think there’s two reasons why the Justice Department would not want to bring a case like this. The first is that if there’s not an underlying crime, then do you really want to bring an obstruction case? Do you really want to go to court to try and convince a jury that someone took actions where there was nothing to cover up? I think that’s a tough case to make. The second thing is that while the president huffed and puffed a lot about this investigation, I’m not sure how much real damage it did to it. Bob Mueller was able to pursue his inquiry. He was not fired. They finished what they had. They weren’t impeded by the Justice Department. So what was the real damage? If the president was obstructing, how did he really hurt the investigation? Give me the damage report. And I don’t think at the end of the day there was that much that actually hurt Mueller’s team’s ability to do their job. It may have been loud, it may have been annoying, it may have been dispiriting. But I think they were able to pursue what they needed to.maggie habermanI think, also, there’s a third point, which is that I think that Bob Mueller was very mindful that he was dealing with the presidency and the damage that an ongoing case like this, if it was iffy, and not locked solid, not completely nailed down, could cause not just the office of the presidency, but the kind of trauma that brings to a country.michael barbaroI’m very struck as we’re talking, Maggie and Mike, that, at least according to this letter, this is exactly what we have had in front of us all along.maggie habermanUnless the report has a lot of information that we’re not seeing, what we saw play out publicly is what was there. The attorney general made clear that this investigation was ending without a recommendation of more indictments. That includes sealed indictments. This is what we’re getting. It will now move to Capitol Hill, and Democrats will seek to get as much material as they can. But in terms of the part the president was really concerned about in terms of Mueller, that is over.michael barbaroSo let’s talk about what Congress is going to do now. Congressional leaders have just received this letter. Mike, you have told us in the past that Democrats were going to be very cautious in how they proceeded under any circumstances. And that if Mueller didn’t find the sort of thing that would force even Republicans in Congress to acknowledge that the president had violated the law, impeachment proceedings would be very unlikely. And it seems like this letter is not at all what Democrats would have needed to move forward in that sort of way.michael schmidtI think it takes a lot of wind out of their sails. They basically have full-blown investigations into obstruction and collusion going on. And here, you have Mueller, someone who has far better tools than they will ever have to investigate, coming out and clearing the president on the Russia issue and giving a mixed message on obstruction that allows Barr to clear him there. It gives the Republicans a very good argument to say, why are you guys continuing to look at these issues? Why are you continuing to rummage around in the president’s life when we’ve received clarity on this from the Justice Department? So I think it hurts them.maggie habermanI think that you’re going to see Nancy Pelosi, the Democratic House speaker, proceed carefully. As of late evening Sunday, she still had not said anything about how she was going to handle this. And I think that you are going to see a lot of Republicans reminding Democrats that they were holding Robert Mueller up as this avatar of credibility when the investigation was going on, so that it is hard to now say, we need to know more, because we need to make a determination that he couldn’t. That will almost inevitably look very political.michael schmidtSo the Democrats are going to ask for everything that Mueller had in the report. And it’s clear from the letter that a lot of obstruction of justice issues were looked at and detailed and analyzed. And the question is that if the Democrats get their hands on that, how damaging is the obstruction stuff? And is it strong enough to give Democrats more of an oomph on their obstruction investigation?michael barbaroIs it both of your understandings that Congress will get a full copy of the Mueller report that they can then examine for these answers?maggie habermanI don’t think that’s been resolved yet.michael schmidtThat’s the big question.michael barbaroMaggie, after months of the president calling the Mueller investigation a witch hunt or worse, would it be better now for him to lean into that description or turn around and say, you know, this investigation is the gold star of investigations, and it says I’m in the clear?maggie habermanThere are a lot of people in the White House who are encouraging the president to turn and say, this was a highly respected prosecutor who just said there was no collusion. And I hope we can all accept this and move on, and try to strike a healing note. It is the president’s political instinct to burrow into his base and say, this was a witch hunt, this was a hoax. And that is what I have heard a number of his advisers say publicly in the last few hours. It’s what his son said in a statement that he gave me. I think they are going to go full-on by telling people this was a waste of two years. This was an effort to undo an electoral result in 2016, and don’t let this happen again.michael barbaroAnd I wonder if you can explain for listeners why it wasn’t what you just said the president might call it — a waste of two years. A waste of everyone’s time and an effort to politically undermine him.maggie habermanIt might have had the effect of undermining him. That might have been one of the impacts. But we do know, based on numerous assessments from the intelligence community, that Russians did seek to interfere in the 2016 election. We do know that there were many contacts between Russians and people involved in the Trump campaign. So trying to find out what was at the heart of that, one would think, was not a waste of time. And now there is an answer. There is a world in which the president could say, this gave me a clean bill of health, and now you can trust me going forward.michael barbaroMike, I want to ask you the same question. What is your explanation for why this investigation was not a waste of time?michael schmidtWell, there were legitimate issues and questions that had to be answered. And along the way, the president took action after action that only made the perception that he did something wrong worse. He fired the F.B.I. director. He asked the F.B.I. director to end an investigation into whether his former national security adviser was talking improperly to the Russian ambassador. He said things publicly about the investigation time and time again to demonize the investigators. He criticized his own attorney general, who recused himself from the Russia investigation. He called Mueller’s team a bunch of angry Democrats. He made the perception worse. And there were things that he did that walked up to the line of obstruction and had to be looked at, that had to be sorted through. Whether it was to clear the president and say, hey, look, he did nothing wrong, for his sake, or to give the public some confidence that the president of the United States was not a Russian agent.michael barbaroSo among the questions that had to be answered in an investigation into Russian interference in our election, regardless of the answer, was what was the president’s role in this? And it happens to be that the answer was seemingly nothing illegal. But that answer had to be unearthed.michael schmidtA significant portion of the country thought that the president of the United States either wittingly or unwittingly had worked with a foreign adversary to influence the election. That was something that had to be looked into.michael barbaroAnd because he didn’t do that, Bill Barr also believes he did not obstruct this investigation.michael schmidtThere was nothing to obstruct.maggie habermanAt least that’s what they found.michael barbaroNo one asked me, but —maggie habermanMichael, what do you think?michael barbaroI think that Russia could never have fathomed just how cosmically disruptive their efforts to influence the election would be.maggie habermanI think they succeeded beyond their wildest dreams, yes.michael schmidtLook at how distracted we’ve been as a country because of this for the past two years. Think about all the other issues that we could have been talking about or looking at. This was an enormous, enormous distraction for the country.maggie habermanAnd for Donald Trump.michael barbaroMaggie, Mike, thank you very much.maggie habermanThank you.michael schmidtThanks for having us.archived recording (donald trump)So after a long look, after a long investigation, after so many people have been so badly hurt, after not looking at the other side, where a lot of bad things happened, a lot of horrible things happened, a lot of very bad things happened for our country, it was just announced there was no collusion with Russia. The most ridiculous thing I’ve ever heard —michael barbaroOn Sunday afternoon, on his way back to Washington from his home in Florida, President Trump addressed the major findings of the Mueller report.archived recording (donald trump)There was no obstruction, and none whatsoever. And it was a complete and total exoneration. It’s a shame that our country had to go through this. To be honest, it’s a shame that your president has had to go through this for — before I even got elected, it began. And it began illegally. And hopefully, somebody is going to look at the other side. This was an illegal takedown that failed. And hopefully, somebody is going to be looking at the other side. So it’s complete —michael barbaroNot long after, the Democratic chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, Representative Jerry Nadler of New York, disputed the president’s characterization of the Mueller report during a news conference in New York.archived recording (jerry nadler)Earlier today, I received a four-page letter from Attorney General Barr outlining his summary of Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s report while making a few questionable legal arguments of his own. I take from this letter three points. First, President Trump is wrong. This report does not amount to a so-called “total exoneration.”michael barbaroNadler seemed to accept Mueller’s conclusion that the president did not coordinate with Russia, but seized on less definitive statements made by Mueller and Barr about whether the president obstructed justice.archived recording (jerry nadler)The attorney general’s comments make it clear that Congress must step in to get the truth and provide full transparency to the American people. The president has not been exonerated by the special counsel. Yet the attorney general has decided not to go further or, apparently, to share those findings with the public. We cannot simply rely on what may be a hasty partisan interpretation of the facts.michael barbaroThat’s it for “The Daily.” I’m Michael Barbaro. See you tomorrow.Hours later, Mr. Barr delivered his letter describing the special counsel’s findings to Congress. But congressional Democrats have demanded more, and the letter could be just the beginning of a lengthy constitutional battle between Congress and the Justice Department about whether Mr. Mueller’s full report will be made public. Democrats have also called for the attorney general to turn over all of the special counsel’s investigative files.Mr. Barr’s letter said that his “goal and intent” was to release as much of the Mueller report as possible, but warned that some of the report was based on grand jury material that “by law cannot be made public.” Mr. Barr planned at a later date to send lawmakers the detailed summary of Mr. Mueller’s full report that the attorney general is required under law to deliver to Capitol Hill.Lawmakers on Sunday also criticized Mr. Barr’s conclusion that the president had not obstructed justice — which requires making a determination about whether Mr. Trump had “corrupt intent” when he took steps to impede the investigation at different turns — when the special counsel’s team never questioned the president in person. After months of debate over a potential interview, Mr. Mueller’s investigators agreed to accept written answers from the president.Mr. Barr’s letter said that the Mueller report identified no actions that, in his and Mr. Rosenstein’s minds, “constitute obstructive conduct, had a nexus to a pending or contemplated proceeding, and were done with corrupt intent.” Mr. Barr did not consult Mr. Mueller in writing his letter to leaders of the congressional judiciary committees, a Justice Department official said on Sunday.Shortly after the release of the Mueller findings, Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, said on Twitter that he planned to call Mr. Barr to testify about what he said were “very concerning discrepancies and final decision making at the Justice Department.”The Russia investigation has buffeted the White House from the earliest days of the Trump administration, with many current and former aides to Mr. Trump brought for questioning to the special counsel’s warren of offices in a plain office building in downtown Washington. F.B.I. agents fanned out across the nation and traveled to numerous foreign countries. Members of Mr. Mueller’s team questioned some witnesses at airports after they landed in the United States.Ultimately, a half-dozen former Trump aides were indicted or convicted of crimes, most for conspiracy or lying to investigators. Twenty-five Russian intelligence operatives and experts in social media manipulation were charged last year in two extraordinarily detailed indictments released by the special counsel. The inquiry concluded without charging any Americans for conspiring with the Russian campaign.More than two years of criminal indictments and steady revelations about Trump campaign contacts with Russians reveal the scope of the special counsel investigation.The findings could bring closure for some who have obsessed over the myriad threads of a byzantine investigation. A cottage industry of Mueller watchers has spent months on social media and cable news debating thorny constitutional issues, spinning conspiracy theories and amassing encyclopedic details about once obscure figures — Carter Page, Konstantin V. Kilimnik, George Papadopoulos and others.How many minds it changes is another matter. Opinions have hardened over time, with many Americans already convinced they knew the answers before Mr. Mueller submitted his conclusions. Some believe that the special counsel’s previous indictments, twinned with voluminous news reporting, have already shown a conspiracy between the Trump campaign and the Kremlin. Some believe that the investigation is, as Mr. Trump has long described it, a “witch hunt.”To prove a conspiracy, former prosecutors said, Mr. Mueller’s team would have had to show that Mr. Trump or one or more of his associates agreed that Russia should interfere in the election through computer espionage, illegal use of social media or other criminal means.Campaign officials at times were eager to accept benefits from Russia’s covert operation. “I love it,” Donald Trump Jr., the president’s eldest son, responded when an intermediary said a Russian emissary wanted to give the campaign damaging information on Hillary Clinton at a Trump Tower meeting in June 2016.Mr. Trump himself urged Russia to try to unearth deleted emails from a private server Mrs. Clinton had used when she was secretary of state.And Roger J. Stone, Jr., the president’s longtime friend, tried to enlist intermediaries to connect with WikiLeaks, Russia’s chosen depository for Democratic emails stolen by Russian hackers.But absent an agreement with the Russian government to break the law, former Justice Department officials said, none of that made Mr. Trump or his associates into co-conspirators with the Kremlin.“There is a big difference between saying, ‘Gosh, I think WikiLeaks has the ability to hack into the Democratic National Committee computers’ and saying ‘We would like them to dump those out in the public, so let’s call them up and ask them to do that,’” said Mary McCord, a former top-ranking national security official at the Justice Department.The release of Mr. Mueller’s findings could force a decision by Democrats on a simmering issue they have said would wait until the investigation’s end: whether to begin impeachment proceedings against the president. Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California has said it would not be “worth it” to try to impeach Mr. Trump, but suggested she could change her mind if an overwhelming bipartisan consensus emerged.For months, the president and his lawyers have waged as much of a public relations campaign as a legal one — trying to discredit the Mueller investigation to keep public opinion from swaying lawmakers to move against Mr. Trump.Here are some pieces of the jigsaw puzzle. The full picture is missing.Mr. Mueller’s work has proceeded in the face of blistering attacks by Mr. Trump and his allies, who painted the investigation as part of a relentless campaign by the “deep state” to reverse the results of the 2016 election.He was given a wide mandate — to investigate not only Russian election interference but also “any matters that may arise directly from that investigation.” Mr. Mueller has farmed out multiple aspects of his inquiry to several United States attorneys’ offices, and those investigations continue.Mr. Barr’s letter said that the special counsel’s office employed 19 lawyers and was assisted by about 40 F.B.I. agents, intelligence analysts, forensic accountants and other staff. About 500 witnesses were interviewed, and 13 foreign governments were asked to turn over evidence.Over all, the special counsel’s office issued more than 2,800 subpoenas, executed nearly 500 search warrants and obtained more than 230 orders for communications records.The Justice Department regulations governing the Mueller inquiry only required the special counsel to give a succinct, confidential report to the attorney general explaining his decisions to either seek — or decline to seek — further criminal charges. Mr. Mueller operated under tighter restrictions than similar past inquiries, notably the investigation of President Bill Clinton by Ken Starr, who ended up delivering a 445-page report in 1998 that contained lascivious details about an affair the president had with a White House intern.Mr. Mueller will not recommend new indictments, ending speculation that he might charge some of Mr. Trump’s aides in the future. The Justice Department’s general practice is not to identify the targets of its investigations if prosecutors decide not to bring charges, so as not to tarnish their reputations. Mr. Rosenstein emphasized this point in a speech last month.“It’s important,” Mr. Rosenstein said, “for government officials to refrain from making allegations of wrongdoing when they’re not backed by charges that we are prepared to prove in court.”Sharon LaFraniere contributed reporting.

Supported byWe need more information.By David LeonhardtOpinion ColumnistThis article is part of David Leonhardt’s newsletter. You can sign up here to receive it each weekday.Now that people have had a day to digest Michael Cohen’s testimony, it’s possible to put together a working list of questions that congressional investigators should pursue. These questions revolve mostly around Trump’s business dealings with Russia and his attempts to hide information from the public and from investigators.Here goes:What role did Allen Weisselberg, an executive at the Trump Organization, play in reimbursing Michael Cohen for hush payments made to a porn star who claimed to have had an affair with Trump? The answer could help clarify Trump’s role in making and covering up the payments.Did Trump commit fraud by misrepresenting his wealth in documents provided to financial firms? Both Weisselberg’s testimony and Trump’s tax returns could shed light. “Was there Russian money coming into the Trump Organization or into Mr. Trump’s personal finances, and was he inflating the numbers [to] get loans?” in the words of Eric Swalwell, a California Democrat. That is, did the Russians have leverage over Trump in 2016?Did Donald Trump Jr. lie to Congress in 2017 about Trump’s business ventures in Russia? And what role did he play in the hush-money payments to Stormy Daniels, the porn star with whom Trump allegedly had an affair? Did Jay Sekulow, a Trump lawyer, and Abbe Lowell, who represents Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner, review and edit Cohen’s false testimony about Trump’s business dealings in Russia? Cohen claimed so on Wednesday, and Sekulow has denied it. Lowell has not commented.Can Rhona Graff, Trump’s longtime secretary, confirm Cohen’s allegation that Roger Stone called Trump in 2016 to discuss WikiLeaks-hacked Democratic emails?Did Donald Trump Jr. confer with his father about the June 2016 Trump Tower meeting with several Russians? If so, did the president commit perjury by reportedly claiming otherwise in written answers to the special counsel Robert Mueller?Did Trump use his now-defunct charitable foundation to avoid paying taxes? Did Trump lie about his taxes being under audit as an excuse to avoid releasing his tax returns? What does Felix Sater, a Russia-born former business associate of Trump’s who was part of talks to build a Trump Tower in Moscow, know about Trump’s business dealings in Russia?And beyond Cohen’s testimony: What do Trump’s tax returns show about his activities in Russia? What other potential crimes are prosecutors — either in New York or at the Justice Department — investigating?(Thanks to Dan Friedman of Mother Jones for some of the above.)[Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]How to get answersThe key next steps for the House include: demanding Trump’s tax returns; serving subpoenas to people whom Cohen mentioned in his testimony; serving subpoenas to obtain documents that can clear up any of the above; and, of course, following up on any new questions raised by the Mueller report.Cohen spent years as one of Trump’s most important aides. His testimony about Trump this week seemed highly credible, given that he knocked down some damaging stories about the president and corroborated others. I’m glad to see that House Democrats plan to pursue these issues, as The Times reported last night — but not yet open a formal impeachment hearing. It’s precisely the right play. At this point, we need more information. If you are not a subscriber to this newsletter, you can subscribe here. You can also join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt • Facebook 

Supported byBy Maggie AstorThe House Oversight and Reform Committee is investigating allegations of voter suppression in Georgia under Secretary of State Brian Kemp, who has since become governor.The investigation was revealed in letters that the committee’s Democratic leaders sent on Wednesday to Mr. Kemp and his successor as secretary of state, Brad Raffensperger. The letters instructed Mr. Kemp and Mr. Raffensperger — both Republicans — to provide by March 20 a wide range of documents concerning voter roll purges; holds placed on voter registration applications; polling site changes and closings; and other voting-related issues.The committee also requested all documents related to the potential conflict of interest Mr. Kemp faced in administering an election in which he was a candidate.“The Committee is particularly concerned by reports that Georgians faced unprecedented challenges with registering to vote and significant barriers to casting their votes during your tenure as secretary of state and during the 2018 election,” Representatives Elijah E. Cummings, the committee chairman, and Jamie Raskin, head of the Subcommittee on Civil Rights and Civil Liberties, wrote to Mr. Kemp.Mr. Kemp and Republicans on the committee immediately dismissed the investigation as a political effort, aimed at undermining the results of an election that Democrats lost.[Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.]The letter outlined several points of scrutiny during the 2018 governor’s race, in which Stacey Abrams, a Democrat, posed a strong challenge to Mr. Kemp in a normally solidly Republican state.Many voters, especially in heavily African-American counties, waited at polling places for hours while “hundreds of available voting machines sat unused in government warehouses,” the letter noted. State officials had sequestered those machines in response to a federal lawsuit that said they were vulnerable to hacking.Tens of thousands of voter registration applications, mostly from African-Americans, were held up under a state law that requires the name on the application to exactly match the name on the applicant’s government ID; even a missing hyphen can cause problems.Mr. Kemp’s office purged more than 1.4 million voters from the rolls during his tenure. (States are required to keep their rolls up-to-date and remove people who have moved, but some, including Georgia, have been much more zealous than others, starting the purging process on the basis of a voter not having cast a ballot recently.) And county and state officials closed more than 200 polling places from 2012 to 2018.Throughout the campaign, Mr. Kemp denied intentional voter suppression. Asked for comment on Wednesday, his spokesman directed The Times to video of a news conference where Mr. Kemp suggested that the investigation was a politically motivated distraction from more important issues.“They need to quit playing politics up there,” Mr. Kemp said at the news conference, before pivoting to an attack on House Democrats for giving billions of dollars in disaster aid to Puerto Rico “when we have our own farmers that are fixing to lose their farm.” He said nothing about the substance of the allegations or the document requests, and his spokesman did not respond to a follow-up email.Mr. Raffensperger, the current secretary of state, said that he had received his own letter and that his office “looks forward to an open dialogue and a thorough process.”Mr. Cummings and Mr. Raskin, the Democratic committee leaders, were not immediately available for interviews on Wednesday. But their decision to open the investigation was more evidence that House Democrats, newly empowered by the November election, intend to act aggressively on issues like allegations of voter suppression that were on the back burner for the first two years of the Trump administration.Representative Jim Jordan, the committee’s ranking Republican, said through a spokesman that it was “highly unusual for a congressional committee to involve itself in a state’s election.”“This is squarely in the purview of the state of Georgia, not the House Oversight Committee,” Mr. Jordan said in a statement. “We can’t help but think that attempts by the Democrats to insert the committee into the state’s business is an attempt to relitigate an election result that they do not like.”Mr. Kemp narrowly defeated Ms. Abrams, who ended her campaign by declaring, “This is not a speech of concession, because concession means to acknowledge an action is right, true or proper.”

Supported byBy Mike Isaac and Kate CongerSAN FRANCISCO — Facebook said on Thursday that it had repaired a technical error that led to long lapses in service at its various properties, including Instagram, WhatsApp and Messenger.The interruption lasted nearly 24 hours on some of the services and was the longest in Facebook’s recent history. It was an eye-opening reminder that even the most powerful internet companies, employing the best computer scientists and cutting-edge technology, can still be crippled by human error.“All of the big web companies have multiple lines of defense, but sometimes a coding mistake made by one engineer can make its way onto many thousands of computers and cause major errors,” said Alex Stamos, a former chief security officer at Facebook and a lecturer at Stanford University. “In other words, rebooting something as complex as Facebook is very, very hard.”A “server configuration change” made on Wednesday had a cascading effect through the company’s network, a Facebook spokesman said. That created a repeating loop of problems that kept growing and could not be immediately fixed, according to one current and one former Facebook employee, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not allowed to talk to reporters.That small mistake had big consequences. Instagram users couldn’t view other profiles, WhatsApp users couldn’t send messages, and news feeds across Facebook’s main app went blank.Downdetector, which likens itself to a weather report for the internet, said it had received 7.5 million problem reports about Facebook’s apps. In comparison, widespread problems on YouTube in October prompted just 2.7 million reports. Downdetector measures service interruptions in part by counting reports from users who are experiencing problems.“Never before have we seen such a large-scale outage,” said Tom Sanders, a co-founder of Downdetector.Early Thursday, Facebook was able to pull most of its systems back online. The company is still trying to figure out how that error reverberated throughout its network. Facebook officials emphasized that the problem had not been caused by hacking or a cyberassault like a so-called denial-of-service attack, which would hit servers with a wave of traffic that caused them to stop working.For years, Facebook has recruited engineers on the idea that within weeks they can release computer code that touches billions of people.“I still get a large amount of fulfillment from seeing my work make a meaningful impact on so many people’s lives,” a testimonial from one employee says on Facebook’s “careers” recruiting page.But that also means a single employee’s mistake can have widespread consequences, especially as Facebook works on a recently detailed plan to consolidate the infrastructure of its “family of apps.” The more tightly woven a computer network becomes, the more likely it is that a small technical problem can grow into a large one.Facebook, like other internet giants, prides itself on never going offline. That predictability has helped it become one of the most influential — and criticized — companies in the world. An estimated two billion-plus people use one or several of its services daily.As people become more dependent on Facebook’s services, for chatting with family and friends as well as doing their jobs, they have higher expectations for performance, Mr. Sanders said.“The tolerance for down time decreases, and people are increasingly expecting services to operate flawlessly 365 days per year,” he said.Although the incident was an irritation for many users, it had more urgent consequences for businesses, like advertising, that rely on Facebook’s network to generate revenue.Kieley Taylor, global head of social at the advertising agency GroupM, said her firm hadn’t been able to get access to Facebook’s system, meaning new advertising campaigns were delayed.“It’s never a good day for an outage,” she said. “Luckily, it was relatively a short period, but it was fully out.”Her company was still trying to determine how many ad campaigns had been hit. Ms. Taylor said that because Facebook’s ad system worked on a pay-as-you-go basis, GroupM wouldn’t need to seek reimbursements from Facebook for ad campaigns that weren’t delivered.GroupM diverted advertising to Google search, YouTube and other websites, but said Facebook had unique reach given its size.“Because of all the people who are on the platform, it continues to be a really powerful digital marketing platform,” Ms. Taylor added.Follow Mike Isaac and Kate Conger on Twitter: @MikeIsaac and @kateconger.Adam Satariano contributed reporting from London.

Supported by5 Things About Your BookBy John WilliamsThe remarkable number of notable writers who have studied or taught at the Iowa Writers’ Workshop includes Flannery O’Connor, Robert Lowell, Dylan Thomas, Rita Dove, Sandra Cisneros, Kurt Vonnegut, John Irving and Marilynne Robinson. In “A Delicate Aggression,” David O. Dowling, an associate professor at Iowa’s journalism school, tells the “cultural and industrial history” of the workshop through a series of biographical portraits. He captures writers “in their formative years taking their first tentative steps toward professional careers, forming alliances and rivalries among intimidating world-renowned faculty and high-powered peers.” He writes about the program’s blend of mentoring and marketing, its rigor and its wiles. Below, he discusses the workshop’s founder, Irving defending Vonnegut’s honor in a fight, how Ralph Waldo Emerson helped to inspire this book and more.When did you first get the idea to write this book?I had written a book called “Emerson’s Protégés,” published in 2014. It was about how the promotion of young literary talent took place in Concord, Mass., and how the growth of creative writing happened within this enclave, this literary circle. Then I thought: How does that promotion move into the 20th and 21st centuries? I wanted to follow how the growth of young talent becomes institutionalized.I didn’t have to look too far. Doing some preliminary research, I strolled into Prairie Lights bookshop and asked the bookseller Paul Ingram what they had in the way of histories of the workshop. He took me over to a big shelf of books, and said: “Everything here is either a memoir or retrospective collection of commemorative pieces. These are all inside jobs.” There wasn’t one book there by someone who wasn’t an alumnus or a former faculty member. “So,” Paul looked at me, “someone’s got to write this book.”What’s the most surprising thing you learned while writing it?Too many to tell you. One was the business savvy of many of the authors — their ability to move themselves into favorable positions in the marketplace. For example, Flannery O’Connor advocated for herself in a way that demonstrated her business acumen by essentially pulling out of a deal that she had originally arranged with a publisher — standing up for herself and having the wherewithal to know when she was working with an editor who was blind to her talents.Kurt Vonnegut hosted wild parties at his house. And John Irving got into a barroom brawl with someone who insulted Vonnegut, his adviser, by calling him a “science fiction hack.”I thought this was going to be a Darwinian shark tank, with writers suffering in isolation as they struggled to survive the workshop method. Paul Engle was the first and most noteworthy director of the workshop. His father was a horse trainer. Engle saw the workshop as breaking the writer, the way you would break a horse. If you can survive, as he said, without losing too much blood, then you’d be able to handle the critics and editors who were going to be so tough on your work. So I was expecting more individualism, but I saw lots of collaboration, lots of humor, lots of mutual support and unlikely alliances of support forming.In what way is the book you wrote different from the book you set out to write?I first thought of doing a biography of Engle. But then I realized that no comprehensive history of the workshop had been done. There were important questions about intellectual history that hadn’t been answered. Publishers were showing up at Vonnegut’s parties, which turned into handpicked parties, where the best of the students would be matched with the publishers and put on a fast track. I learned that this book was going to be about the writer and mass culture, about media industries and the intellectual history they shape.Engle solicited the attention of mass culture — for instance, trying to get Esquire magazine to sponsor a conference. And it got all the way to the point where the workshop wasn’t reaching out; others were reaching out to the workshop.Who is a creative person (not a writer) who has influenced you and your work?I’ll go back to the foundation of a lot of my thinking, research and writing, which is the Hudson River School of painters; specifically, Asher B. Durand and his painting “Kindred Spirits.” It depicts Thomas Cole and William Cullen Bryant standing on a rock discussing something. What that signifies to me — that moment and the Hudson School as a whole — is a collection, a constellation of creative artists. The link to Emerson and the Transcendentalists is there, of course. There’s a reciprocal enrichment. Indeed, one of Emerson’s protégés was a painter, Christopher Cranch, who made the “transparent eyeball” illustration of Emerson as an eye on long legs walking through nature. That’s where I go for my source of inspiration: that very fertile ground for creativity that happens in circles.Persuade someone to read “A Delicate Aggression” in 50 words or less.It brings you inside the mechanism of fame that has produced America’s most important writers since World War II. It tells of their struggles and triumphs, the lasting impression the Iowa Writers’ Workshop forever left on them, and the influence they had on the world’s most powerful creative writing program.This interview has been condensed and edited.Follow John Williams on Twitter: @johnwilliamsnyt.A Delicate AggressionSavagery and Survival in the Iowa Writers’ WorkshopBy David O. DowlingIllustrated. 420 pages. Yale University Press. $35.Follow New York Times Books on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram, sign up for our newsletter or our literary calendar. And listen to us on the Book Review podcast.

Supported byEven if it is never released, the public already knows enough.By Caroline FredricksonMs. Fredrickson is the president of the American Constitution Society.People lie to hide the truth. They lie to hide crimes. And while everyone is dying for a peek at Robert Mueller’s bombshell report to see if he says any crimes were committed by the Trump campaign in 2016, the truth is actually already out there, hidden in plain sight.Mr. Mueller’s report may never go public, but we don’t need a peek at the recommendations he delivered on Friday to Attorney General William Barr to credibly assess that something unethical and likely illegal went on in 2016. The repeated lies told by Trump campaign staff members — lies about their connections to Russian figures — already spin a grand tale of conspiracy and deceit. And it’s a tale so suspect and sordid that President Trump and his associates felt the need to lie to hide it from law enforcement.This is not conjecture; some of Mr. Trump’s people are already in jail, having been convicted in federal court for lying to investigators about their connections to and interactions with Russians during the 2016 campaign. Others have pleaded guilty to similar crimes, which — it bears repeating — is what one does when presented with overwhelming evidence of one’s guilt. Still others await trial. Many more have been indicted.There’s the top Trump campaign official Paul Manafort, who is serving time for lying about his history of lobbying for Russian interests and sharing Trump campaign polling data with a Russian intelligence asset during the campaign.And there’s the close Trump associate Roger Stone, recently indicted on charges of lying about communications he had with Wikileaks before it released damaging information about Hillary Clinton that law enforcement believes was stolen by Russian hackers.The former Trump lawyer Michael Cohen is headed to jail after admitting that he lied to Congress about a business deal Mr. Trump was pursuing with Russian figures throughout the 2016 campaign, lies Mr. Trump himself echoed on the campaign trail.Michael Flynn, the president’s former national security adviser, will soon be doing time after admitting to making false statements to the F.B.I. to conceal December 2016 communications with Russia regarding the sanctions on Russia imposed by the Obama administration.Lastly, there is George Papadopoulos, a foreign policy adviser to the campaign, who arguably helped precipitate the investigation when he bragged about his knowledge of Russian “dirt” on Mrs. Clinton to an Australian diplomat who then alerted the F.B.I. Mr. Papadopoulos subsequently pleaded guilty to lying to the F.B.I. and served time in prison.Then there is the president himself.From the outset, Mr. Trump’s approach to the Mueller investigation has been characterized by paranoia and fear. With his increasingly shrill denials, the president comes across more as someone who fears he will be found out than someone convinced of his innocence.And he has lied to the American people.The president’s version of events regarding his campaign’s interactions with Russia has changed repeatedly since the investigation began. From early assertions during his campaign that he had no business interests in Russia, to claims about his role in issuing false statements about the infamous Trump Tower meeting with Russians, the president has been caught in numerous, verifiable lies on this issue. It just remains to be seen whether he lied to cover up actual criminal activity, including conspiring with a foreign power to sway an election, or working to obstruct investigations into those ties.Ideally, Mr. Barr will share Mr. Mueller’s report with the country. But if he elects to withhold it, President Trump will no doubt claim victory. He will no doubt treat the absence of an indictment as full vindication. But here’s a truth for the president: He was never going to be indicted. The Department of Justice has a longstanding policy against indicting a sitting president, and the absence of an indictment does not mean no evidence of conspiracy or obstruction was found.Indeed, Mr. Mueller’s report may not be the end of the president’s legal peril, only the beginning. That’s because report or no report, through his prosecutions, referrals, indictments, convictions and subpoenas, Mr. Mueller has already provided the House of Representative with some very clear paths for investigation. So even if the Mueller report simply gets tossed in a drawer in Mr. Barr’s desk for all eternity, there is already sufficient material out there to let the House exercise its newly rediscovered oversight responsibilities and get to the bottom of what happened between the Trump campaign and Russia during the 2016 election. Remember, Richard Nixon was not indicted, and there was no commensurate special counsel report in the Watergate scandal. There doesn’t need to be one here to right wrongs so egregious they were apparently worth lying about.Caroline Fredrickson (@crfredrickson) is the president of the American Constitution Society and author of “Under the Bus: How Working Women Are Being Run Over” and the forthcoming “The Democracy Fix: How to Win the Fight for Fair Rules, Fair Courts and Fair Elections.”The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.An earlier version of this essay misstated the status of George Papadopoulos, a foreign policy adviser during Donald Trump's 2016 campaign. He served 12 days in prison for lying to the F.B.I. and was released; he is not currently behind bars.

Supported byBy Charlie SavageWASHINGTON — Chelsea Manning, the former Army intelligence analyst who provided archives of secret military documents to WikiLeaks in 2010, was taken into custody on Friday after a federal judge found her in contempt for refusing to testify before a grand jury that is investigating the antisecrecy group.Judge Claude H. Hilton of Federal District Court in the Eastern District of Virginia ruled that Ms. Manning must stay in civil detention until she testifies. Ms. Manning had vowed not to cooperate in the investigation even though prosecutors in the Eastern District of Virginia granted immunity for her testimony.In a statement posted on Twitter after she was arrested, Ms. Manning said she had ethical objections to the secrecy of the grand-jury system and “will not comply” with the subpoena.The case is part of a long-running criminal inquiry into WikiLeaks and its leader, Julian Assange, that dates to the Obama administration and which the Trump administration revived. Ms. Manning said on Thursday that prosecutors on Wednesday had asked her a series of questions about WikiLeaks before the grand jury, but she had responded to every question by saying it violated her constitutional rights.Mr. Assange has been living for years in the Ecuadorean Embassy in London to avoid arrest. Prosecutors charged him under seal last summer, a fact they inadvertently revealed in a court filing in November.The precise charge against him remains murky, but trying to convict him of a crime for publishing classified information he received from someone else would raise novel and profound First Amendment issues. The Obama administration had decided against trying to charge him because of fears that establishing a precedent that his actions were a crime could chill investigative journalism.“Chelsea is a tremendously courageous person and this outcome was not unexpected but this an appealable order,” said her lawyer, Moira Meltzer-Cohen, after the hearing.Joshua Stueve, a spokesman for the United States attorney in the Eastern District of Virginia, said the government did not want to confine Ms. Manning, relaying a statement that Tracy Doherty-McCormick, a federal prosecutor, had made after the judge opened part of the contempt hearing on Friday.“It has always been our intent and hope for her to testify and comply with the valid court order and valid grand jury investigation,” Ms. Doherty-McCormick said. “Ms. Manning could change her mind right now and do so. It is her choice. This is a rule of law issue, and Ms. Manning is not above the law.”During her court-martial in 2013, Ms. Manning had admitted sending WikiLeaks large archives of secret documents. Her bulk disclosure vaulted the group and Mr. Assange to global fame years before WikiLeaks gained a different type of notoriety for publishing stolen Democratic emails that Russian hackers had stolen during the 2016 presidential campaign.In a lengthy confession in 2013, Ms. Manning said she had interacted online with someone who was likely Mr. Assange. But she said she acted of her own accord and was not directed by anyone at WikiLeaks. Ms. Manning said prosecutors had wanted her to go over those same events.“The grand jury’s questions pertained to disclosures from nine years ago, and took place six years after an in-depth computer forensics case, in which I testified for almost a full day about these events,” she said in the statement. “I stand by my previous testimony. I will not participate in a secret process that I morally object to, particularly one that has been historically used to entrap and persecute activists for protected political speech.”A military judge in 2013 had sentenced Ms. Manning to 35 years in prison, and, and counting her time in pretrial custody, she served about seven years — by far the longest prison time any American has served for leaking government secrets to the public — before President Barack Obama commuted the remainder of her sentence in 2017. As a transgender person struggling to transition to life as a woman, she had a difficult time in a male military prison and twice tried to commit suicide in 2016.The contempt hearing on Friday was partly closed, but the judge had opened it for a portion in which Ms. Meltzer-Cohen argued that Ms. Manning should be confined at home. The judge rejected that request and Ms. Manning was taken to the women’s wing of the federal detention center in Alexandria, Va., Ms. Meltzer-Cohen said.Mr. Stueve said federal officials had taken steps to ensure that Ms. Manning’s medical needs would be met while she remained in custody.Confinement for defying a grand-jury subpoena can last until the term of the jury is over, after which prosecutors would have to obtain a new subpoena and start the process over if they wanted to continue to press the issue. Both Ms. Meltzer-Cohen and Mr. Stueve declined to say when the current jury’s term is set to end.Follow Charlie Savage on Twitter: @charlie_savage.

At start-ups and well-funded companies, lunch can be made from a thousand free snacks.Kira Fisher’s "little office mezze platter" is made up of grapes, cut apples and cheese from her workplace.CreditCreditPhoto illustration by Tracy Ma/The New York TimesSupported byBy Jamie Lauren KeilesSome of the most compelling meals are born of strange constraints. The rationing of World War I gave us the eggless, butterless, milkless cake. Later, during the Great Depression, housewives poured sugary syrup over Ritz crackers to create the filling for a back-of-the-box recipe called Mock Apple Pie. Today’s MacGyverish food and drink derives not from scarcity but rather abundance. Oat milk lattes, cauliflower-crust pizza, Soylent and veggie burgers that “bleed” all suggest a surplus of options and a new anxiety over what our choices mean.At work, the ample free snacks of the modern office kitchens now serve as the basis for a scrappy new cuisine. White-collar workers attempt to make square meals from free Chobani yogurt cups. Kind bars are treated as a kind of bumper crop, and the most sought-after luxury is bread, prized for its role as a base for different toppings.[Do you like being crafty? Sign up for our Smarter Living newsletter, which delivers more tricks, hacks, and advice on better ways to be alive.]“I literally never go out and buy lunch,” said Rebecca Jennings, a culture reporter at Vox Media. We first met sharing a desk pod last year, during my own temporary employment with the company.Ms. Jennings is known around the office for her kitchenette cooking. Her signature dish? The personal “work pizza,” which makes use of complimentary bread, sriracha and Babybel. Jennings bakes these ingredients in the toaster oven for about four and a half minutes, until the cheese begins to brown. After that, she adds a special touch. “We have this drawer that I don’t think a lot of the people at the office know about, with leftover Parmesan cheese packets from when big teams order pizza,” she said. “I’ll sprinkle that on top.”Kira Fisher, who has worked for several social media companies, including Tumblr, makes use of her own free office cheese, sometimes with a Mediterranean twist.“One thing I really like to do is make a cheese plate,” she said. “Getting all the fruit we have in the office and cutting it — cutting the apples, halving grapes, finding whatever cheese they have — and making a little spread, a little office mezze platter.”From 2012 to 2015, Ms. Fisher ran the food blog Sad Desk Lunch, where she cataloged user-submitted photos of bleak workday meals. Elsewhere online, lists of so-called “D.I.Y. office snacks” and “office snack hacks” recommend unofficial uses of office kitchen appliances, such as using a Keurig coffee maker to cook ramen. (Representatives from Keurig declined to comment on this use of their product.)The phenomenon is hardly confined to workplaces in the United States. Ms. Yeah, a Chinese YouTuber whose offline name is Zhou Xiaohui, has gained over five million followers for her elaborate workplace lunches, prepared using supplies from her Chengdu office building. In one video, she cooks hot pot in the water cooler. In another, she makes crepes on the hot side of a modified computer modem.According to Ms. Fisher, the great challenge of office cooking is overcoming the sweetness of snack food. She sometimes makes yogurt feel more lunch-like by adding a handful of crushed-up potato chips, or a salty “new wave snack” like Biena roasted chickpeas.“Most tech companies usually set you up for either breakfast — with the yogurts, the oatmeals, the cereals — or they set you up for the midday snack,” Ms. Fisher said. “They aren’t going to give you the lunch.”The history of free snacks at work depends on the history of snacking in general. Mass-produced packaged snacks first reached ubiquity in the mid-20th century, with products like Cheetos, Fritos and Twinkies. Between 1977 and 2002, the number of Americans eating three or more snacks per day increased from 11 to 42 percent. During this period, employees often purchased snacks at work, first from wheeled snack carts, and later from automated vending machines.Around the time of the dot-com boom, the expense of work snacks was first transferred to employers, at least in some white-collar industries. Free snacks at work are strongly associated with the profligacy of Silicon Valley, but the precise origins of the perk are unknown.At many companies, employees can partake of a few kinds of free snacks. (The New York Times offers a limited assortment — fruits, pretzels, Goldfish — on a daily basis.) The start-ups NatureBox and SnackNation streamline the snack buying process for some employers, delivering automatic monthly orders of newfangled munchables like Aged Cheddar Lentil Loops, Blueberry Almond Quinoa Bites and Bohana Popped Water Lily Seeds.There are limits to what kinds of foods employers are allowed to provide for their employees if they want those purchases to be tax-deductible. According to Section 119 of the Internal Revenue Code, a business can deduct occasional employee meals, but only when those meals are “furnished for the convenience of the employer.” Meals furnished for the convenience of the employee, on the other hand, are seldom allowed as a business expense.Free snacks belong to a third category of cheap and infrequent perks called de minimis fringe benefits. The I.R.S. doesn’t tax these because, well, it’s tedious to determine their value. Up until last year, an employer could actually deduct the full cost of employee snacks, which might help to explain how they became a workplace fixture. In 2018, this tax break was halved, following the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017. It is too early to predict how the new set of rules might affect the future of the start-up smorgasbord. For now, employees of Yelp continue to enjoy a wide range of sweet and savory options.“We’ve got roast beef, turkey, ham and different types of bread,” said Michael Sztanski, a sales manager. “We have bagels. We have a lot of frozen food, like burritos.” Also: iced tea, coffee, chips, hummus and hard-boiled eggs.At lunchtime, Mr. Sztanski and his colleagues often joke that they feel like they’re playing a game of “office ‘Chopped’” — a reference to the popular TV franchise in which contestants cook meals with limited ingredients. His most prizewinning lunch is “a make-your-own-bowl-type thing,” in the style of fast-casual restaurants like Dig Inn and Sweetgreen.“I’ll take the hard-boiled eggs and chop them up to make egg salad with mayo, pepper and salt. That’ll be one part of the bowl. Then I’ll crush up Doritos, or any chip — most recently, I’ve been using Sun Chips. I’ll crush them up as another part of the bowl. Then I get mozzarella balls, which I’ll throw in there as well. And a jerky stick.” (Speaking of ingenuity and necessity: Doritos is often also a key component of prison cooking.)When it comes to the line between snack and meal, there is no definitive legal definition. The National School Lunch Program defines a high school lunch as 750 to 850 calories of food, encompassing one cup of fruit, one cup of vegetables, one cup of milk, two ounces of grain, two ounces of meat and no more than 284 milligrams of sodium. The 95-page I.R.S. Fringe Benefit Guide lists examples of snacks as “coffee, doughnuts, or soft drinks,” but does not rule on category busters like bread, yogurt, turkey, burritos or crushed-up Doritos with mozzarella balls. Ultimately, the distinction might depend on the value and satiation to employees.“If people are eating their snacks as meals, it almost counts as a portion of their salary,” said Stewart J. Schwab, a professor of employment law at Cornell University. “The I.R.S. isn’t getting down to this nitty-gritty level, generally speaking.”Employees do get fired for abusing workplace food privileges, but most cases involve food service workers eating sellable product. When it comes to office chefs exploiting their free snacks, the legal limit really depends on the terms set forth in the employment contract. In at-will employment states, a worker can be fired anytime, without just cause, no matter how many snacks they eat for lunch.“If the employer wakes up one day and just doesn’t like you, or doesn’t like how many snacks you’re taking, you can get fired,” Dr. Schwab said. “The other case is that maybe the employer is going to start saying that this is a crime, like embezzlement or theft. But for 20 Fig Newtons versus five, it’s a little hard to believe they would do that.”While such differences may be negligible to employers, for workers in expensive cities like New York and San Francisco, the money saved turning snacks into lunch could mean making next month’s rent. This is especially true for entry-level workers, who often earn at or below the cost of living. Ms. Jennings estimates that free snacks at Vox Media save her about $200 every month, but those savings initially came at the cost of embarrassment.“It made me feel like I was a cheap person who was bleeding the company dry with my toast consumption habits,” she said.She probably should not be concerned. “Vox Media’s office cafes make for great spots to gather, have serendipitous run-ins and host creative brainstorms,” a spokeswoman for the company wrote in an email. “It’s no surprise our employees have grown as clever with the snacks as we are with our work.”Which raises the question: What are the ethics of snacks? According to Brookes Brown, an assistant professor of philosophy at Clemson University, the compensation level of employees is one factor. “Are they an unpaid intern or an underpaid employee suffering from broader social injustices?” she said. “Or are they the C.E.O. who wants to make a higher rung on the Forbes wealthiest people list?”Ethically speaking, one also should consider the overall supply of free snacks, and the impact of personal snacking on the group.“It definitely matters whether the snacks show up in an endless supply or whether there’s a limited amount put out each day,” said Karen Stohr, an associate professor of philosophy at Georgetown University. “The 17th-century British philosopher John Locke put this in terms of an obligation to leave ‘enough, and as good’ for other people,” she said. “That seems to apply to employer-provided snacks.”Ms. Jennings said that at Vox Media, snacks are restocked daily. Four years into her tenure with the company, she now enjoys her work pizza without shame.“There’s always plenty left over, so I don’t feel bad at all,” she said. “But if you are the type to go in really early in the morning and take all of the most desired thing, like the cups of guacamole or the hard-boiled eggs, that’s extremely un-chill.”

Supported byHow an imaginary version of the Trump administration might make the real one lose in 2020.By Ross DouthatOpinion ColumnistThis should have been one of the best weeks of Donald Trump’s presidency — a week when the shadow of impeachment lifted, when his fiercest critics were dramatically wrong-footed, when the NO COLLUSION! tweets suddenly came with a certified-by-Robert-Mueller stamp.But the rule of the Trump administration is that even political victories must be followed by egregious acts of self-sabotage. And so it was that the White House took the opportunity afforded by the Mueller investigation’s wrap-up to back a lawsuit against Obamacare that even the health care law’s conservative critics believe is frivolous, reviving a debate that tanked Trump’s approval rating during 2017’s repeal-and-replace debacle, and that no Republican of consequence wants to reopen today.Then just to add an extra self-inflicted wound, the administration this week also endorsed defunding the Special Olympics — a position that lasted all of 48 hours before Trump reversed it, blaming “my people” rather than himself.[Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]What unites both of these blunders, apart from simple political stupidity, is that neither has much to do with actual policymaking. There is little chance that John Roberts, having declined to do away with Obamacare when the law faced a reasonable constitutional challenge, will rule in favor of a more implausible attack. There is zero chance that the Special Olympics will be defunded; the budget that imagined doing so was a symbolic statement that gets ignored by Congress every year.So why revive the Obamacare debate? Why set yourself up for “Trump Defunds Special Olympics” headlines? The answer is that there are effectively two Trump presidencies. One offers something like what the president promised on the campaign trail — a break with Paul Ryan’s green-eyeshade approach to entitlement reform, a more moderate tack on health care, an indifference to Obama-era conservative orthodoxies on fiscal and monetary policy.The other offers a continuation of the Tea Party’s insistence on spending cuts and Obamacare repeal, and appropriately its present leader is a former Tea Party congressman — Mick Mulvaney, the Zelig of the administration, whose zeal is apparently the main reason that the Obamacare lawsuit now has administration support.The first presidency is mostly real; the second presidency has been mostly imaginary ever since the failure of Obamacare repeal left Ryanism neutered. Trump hasn’t done some of the biggest heterodox things he promised (an infrastructure bill, most notably). But he has ended austerity budgeting, ignored entitlement reform, reformed Obamacare around the edges while leaving its coverage guarantee intact, embraced protectionism and jawboned the Federal Reserve to be more inflationary.At the same time, though, he has relied on personnel who are associated with 2010-era G.O.P. orthodoxy, rather than elevating the kind of conservatives who have actively theorized for a more populist right. Trump's choice of Steve Moore to the Federal Reserve is a recent case study: Instead of elevating a principled inflation dove (National Review editor and Bloomberg columnist Ramesh Ponnuru would have been my outside-the-box choice), Trump picked a hack who was obsessed with imaginary inflation under Obama, and only flipped to back a looser monetary policy because, well, it was the Trumpy thing to do.But at least with Moore, Trump is getting someone whose official views now line up with his administration’s political interests. With Mulvaney he has something stranger: A subordinate who plays let’s-pretend-to-be-the-Tea-Party whenever he gets the chance, limning an essentially fictional version of the Trump presidency in budget documents and pushing the president to publicly back forays like the Obamacare lawsuit that have little chance of changing anything.You could describe the cut-the-Special-Olympics budgets and anti-Obamacare efforts as just classic Republican hypocrisy, the tribute that big-spending vice plays to small-government virtue. But Trump campaigned in 2016 as the guy who would get rid of this charade, who would actually identify as a free-spending populist rather than a movement conservative, who would enable the G.O.P. to be a “worker’s party” in its self-conception rather than just in its compromises with political reality.Instead, thanks to his “people” and his own rhetorical shifts, he’s ended up in a weirder position. The Trump record would justify, within limits, campaigning in 2020 the way he did in 2016, claiming to have governed as a populist rather than a Ryanist — taking credit for reforming Obamacare rather than eliminating it, taking credit for Congress’s guns-and-butter budgets and all the popular spending they contain.But right now Trump is letting the mostly-imaginary version of his presidency, the Mulvaney version, define his priorities and public rhetoric. Which makes him look like a guy who didn’t keep his promises, who promised to be a different kind of Republican and then kept trying to defund the Special Olympians and throw people off their health care coverage.That’s the most unpopular version of Trumpism, which is saying something. And his chances in 2020 will turn, in part, on whether he realizes it. His real economic record, however haphazard and under-theorized, could still win him re-election. The Mulvaney fantasia guarantees defeat.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTOpinion) and Instagram, join the Facebook political discussion group, Voting While Female.Ross Douthat has been an Opinion columnist for The Times since 2009. He is the author of several books, most recently, “To Change the Church: Pope Francis and the Future of Catholicism.”
You can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT You can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT 

Supported byBy Adam SatarianoLONDON — A British review of Huawei found “significant” security problems with the Chinese company’s telecommunications equipment, a conclusion that supports a United States effort to ban it from next-generation wireless networks.The British report, released on Thursday, said there were “underlying defects” in Huawei’s software engineering and security processes that governments or independent hackers could exploit, posing risks to national security. While the report did not call for an outright ban of Huawei equipment, it was endorsed by the country’s top cybersecurity agency.The conclusions buttress the Trump administration’s push to convince its allies that Huawei, the world’s largest maker of telecommunications equipment, creates grave risks to national security. The White House has accused Huawei of being an arm of the Chinese government that can be used for spying or to sabotage communications networks, a charge that Huawei has vehemently denied.But the American push has run into hurdles. Many countries, including Britain, have resisted the effort to ban Huawei, arguing that the risk can be mitigated. It is a critical time for wireless carriers as they prepare to spend billions of dollars to introduce next-generation wireless networks, known as 5G, which governments see as essential infrastructure for a rapidly digitizing global economy.The British report highlights broader challenges facing many countries. While Huawei products may pose cybersecurity risks, the company is a key provider of the equipment needed to build 5G networks. If countries issue an outright ban, they could face costly delays in adopting the technology that not only will increase the download speeds of mobile phones but is expected to create breakthroughs in manufacturing, transportation and health care. And Huawei is already a central part of many countries’ telecommunications networks, making a ban logistically difficult.Governments are looking to continue using Huawei’s equipment while limiting its risks. Germany, India and the United Arab Emirates, among others, have signaled they are unlikely to follow the Americans’ lead on a ban of Huawei’s 5G equipment.In a statement, Huawei said the British report “details some concerns about Huawei’s software engineering capabilities. We understand these concerns and take them very seriously.”This week, the European Union issued recommendations on securing 5G networks that didn’t call for a Huawei ban. The British government is expected to issue new telecommunications regulations this year.One main concern raised by the United States and others pushing for a ban is Huawei’s ties to the Chinese government, which maintains tight control over the national economy. A law adopted by China in 2017 has been interpreted as requiring companies to provide assistance to Beijing on national security matters.Garrett Marquis, a spokesman for the National Security Council, said the United States commended Britain “for taking a hard look at its telecommunications vendors in order to ensure the maximum security of its networks.” He added, “We share many of the concerns listed in the Oversight Board’s report.”The British authorities are trying to differentiate Huawei’s security flaws from a broader effort by Beijing to infiltrate its networks. The report on Thursday described a company with poor engineering practices and problems stemming from those engineering flaws, more than one operating at the orders of Chinese authorities.In the report, British officials determined that Huawei could not replicate much of the software it built, meaning that the authorities could not be sure what code was being introduced into the country’s wireless networks. They added that Huawei had poor oversight of suppliers that provided components for its products.“There remains no end-to-end integrity,” the report said.A senior American government official, speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss sensitive internal deliberations about Huawei, said the British finding of pervasive sloppy engineering underscored concerns about the security risks and hidden costs of using cheaper Huawei equipment in 5G networks.The environment at Huawei could allow for the intentional introduction of an exploitable flaw that would be lost in the background noise of poor practices, the official said. The official added that the intelligence community did not expect to find overt, smoking-gun “back doors” in Huawei code clearly meant to permit illicit access to network data. Instead, it expects “bug doors” — flaws that can be explained away as a mere mistake if they come to light, but that can be exploited for the same purposes by China or by other sophisticated actors who discover them.Since 2010, Britain has had an oversight board, now led by the National Cyber Security Center, tasked with overseeing Huawei’s operations. The company’s products and code are reviewed at a security lab about 70 miles outside London. In November, after British officials raised questions with Huawei about its practices, the company pledged to spend $2 billion over the next five years to improve its software and security processes.The approach is seen as a potential model for other countries looking to add more safeguards over Huawei. Germany has opened a security lab in Bonn where Huawei’s equipment and code can be reviewed. The company has also opened a facility in Brussels to appease the concerns of European Union officials.British officials have remained confident the Huawei risk can be managed. Ciaran Martin, the head of the National Cyber Security Center, said this year that an outright ban wasn’t necessary because the country had strong oversight and kept Huawei equipment outside the most sensitive areas of the country’s networks.Yet Thursday’s report remained sharply critical of Huawei. “No material progress has been made,” the report concluded.Follow Adam Satariano on Twitter: @satariano.Adam Satariano reported from London. Charlie Savage and Julian E. Barnes contributed reporting from Washington.

Supported byAnd why and how that case might fail.By Ross DouthatOpinion ColumnistDebates about the Electoral College, like the one that Democrats have lately instigated, often get bogged down in disputes about the intentions of the founding generation — whether they were trying to check mob rule, prop up Southern power, preserve the power of small states, or simply come to a necessarily arbitrary constitutional compromise.These disputes are historically interesting but somewhat practically irrelevant, because everyone agrees that the college doesn’t work the way the founders expected. It doesn’t allow wise electors to veto demagogic candidates, it doesn’t throw most presidential elections to the House of Representatives — and as my colleague Nate Cohn pointed out last week, it doesn’t always give extra influence to the smallest states. (Donald Trump won because he overperformed in big swing states, not because he cobbled together a coalition of small ones.)[Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]Instead the Electoral College really just does one big thing that a popular-vote system wouldn’t do: It makes it possible for close elections to yield a president supported by a minority of voters, especially in circumstances where that minority is regionally concentrated rather than diffuse.Is there a case for a system that sometimes produces undemocratic outcomes? I think so, on two grounds. First, it creates incentives for political parties and candidates to seek supermajorities rather than just playing for 50.1 percent, because the latter play is a losing one more often than in a popular-vote presidential system.Second, it creates incentives for political parties to try to break regional blocs controlled by the opposition, rather than just maximizing turnout in their own areas, because you win the presidency consistently only as a party of multiple regions and you can crack a rival party’s narrow majority by flipping a few states.According to this — admittedly contrarian — theory, the fact that the Electoral College produces chaotic or undemocratic outcomes in moments of ideological or regional polarization is actually a helpful thing, insofar as it drives politicians and political hacks (by nature not the most creative types) to think bigger than regional blocs and 51 percent majorities.Thus the electoral/popular split of 1888 pointed the way to William McKinley and Teddy Roosevelt’s national Republican majorities, and the near-splits of 1968 and 1976 pushed us toward Reagan’s nationwide landslides and Bill Clinton’s successful center-left campaigns. Time and again a close election leads to hand-wringing about the need for Electoral College reform; time and again, politicians and parties respond to the college’s incentives, and more capacious and unifying majorities are born.Does this theory fit our current situation? In a sense, yes. Donald Trump could win the presidency without a popular-vote majority only because both parties have been locked into base-turnout strategies that are partially responsible for our government’s ineffectiveness and gridlock. And to the extent that Hillary Clinton’s campaign leaned into this polarization (writing off many constituencies that her husband competed for), she deserved her electoral-college loss.Trump could also only win the presidency without a popular-vote majority because a large region of the country, the greater Rust Belt and Appalachia, had been neglected by both parties’ policies over the preceding decades, leading to a slow-building social crisis that the national press only really noticed because of Trump’s political success. In this sense, Clinton’s weird post-election boast that her half of the country was way more economically dynamic indicated the advantages of a system where a declining region can punch above its popular-vote weight — because it makes it harder for a party associated with economic winners to simply write the losers off.However: This defense of occasional countermajoritarian presidencies assumes that the political system will, over the medium-term, be responsive to the Electoral College’s incentives — that parties will be capable of overcoming polarization and addressing specific regional grievances, that politicians will be capable of working toward Rooseveltian or Reaganesque majorities, that presidents who win with a popular-vote minority will either adapt and gain a majority the next time (as George W. Bush did) or lose like Benjamin Harrison and John Quincy Adams.And neither political party has responded to 2016 the way my defense of the Electoral College predicts they should. A countermajoritarian outcome has not produced supermajoritarian ambitions. Instead of trying to expand its base, the Trump-era G.O.P. seems to be relying on the Electoral College to actively avoid any sustained outreach, while Trump’s likely Democratic rivals seem to be taking Clinton’s popular-vote margin as a license to march leftward.This points to a reality that the college’s defenders need to recognize: If neither party can escape 50-50 politics, if polarization makes electoral/popular splits recur cycle after cycle, then the Electoral College’s arguable virtues will no longer apply, and it will just be one more delegimitizer in a system shadowed by partisan disillusionment, one more potential catalyst for a true constitutional crackup.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTOpinion) and Instagram, join the Facebook political discussion group, Voting While Female.Ross Douthat has been an Opinion columnist for The Times since 2009. He is the author of several books, most recently, “To Change the Church: Pope Francis and the Future of Catholicism.”
You can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT You can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT 

Supported byEncountersThe young actor, who identifies as queer and nonbinary, stars in the Off Broadway play “‘Daddy.’”By Max BerlingerTommy Dorfman was holding a kitchen knife that could make Norman Bates wince, wondering what to do with the kale.“How should I cut this?” Mr. Dorfman said.The 26-year-old actor was preparing lunch at the Ali Forney Center, a nonprofit in New York City that supports homeless L.G.B.T.Q. youth. The menu consisted of jambalaya and kale salad, and the salad required a fair amount of knife work. A game plan was laid out by Jess Tell, the meal coordinator: Separate the leaves from the stems and chop them down to bite-size pieces.Mr. Dorfman, best known for starring in the dark teen drama “13 Reasons Why,” was both in and out of his element. In, because he has volunteered with Ali Forney for more than two years, fund-raising, posting on social media and lending a hand in person. Out, because he almost never cooks for himself.“I can cook, but I just don’t,” he said, noting that he and his husband, Peter Zurkuhlen, prefer to order in, when they are at home in Los Angeles. Mr. Dorfman’s domestic strengths lie elsewhere. “I’m a cleaner, a put-er away-er, an organizer of things,” he added. “I’m the hostess.”Mr. Dorfman was dressed in a Cher T-shirt and plaid Thom Browne pants, with his blond curls tucked into a baby blue Nike hat. He was in New York to perform in “‘Daddy,’” a new play by Jeremy O. Harris, a young and buzzy playwright, and had a day free of performances and rehearsals. A sous chef was needed at Ali Forney’s drop-in center on West 125th Street in Harlem, and Mr. Dorfman was happy to step up.After vigorously washing his hands, he donned a red-and-black apron and, armed with the knife, started hacking his way into a dense mountain of kale, saving the stems for later use. He liked being put to work.“As nice as it is to make an appearance at an event, I don’t find that the most fulfilling way to support an organization,” he said, dabbing his face when he started working up a sweat. (He was promptly told to rewash his hands.) “The more I’m in service, the less I’m in self. I try to spend as little time thinking about myself as possible. I find that’s not a constructive way to live. By coming here, by volunteering, it’s a way to get out of my own head.”During his childhood in Atlanta, with three brothers and one sister, giving back was part of his family’s ethos. His father, who spent Sundays volunteering for the homeless, “was always interested in supporting underprivileged youth,” Mr. Dorfman said. “He created a nonprofit basketball program and housing systems. He had people living with us from time to time. He’s always been that person.”That may explain Mr. Dorfman’s engagement with political and social causes. His Instagram feed not only features shirtless selfies, but also photos with Emma González, a gun control activist who survived the Parkland, Fla., school shooting, and posts urging his followers to vote. He was on the February cover of Out magazine and wrote an essay last year in Teen Vogue about wearing gendered clothing as a nonbinary person. As Walt Whitman may have put it, he contains multitudes.It is a stark contrast from his role in “‘Daddy,’” in which he plays Max, a vapid young Hollywood actor who can barely conceal his jealousy when a friend finds a sugar daddy, played by Alan Cumming.Set entirely on the patio of a modernist Los Angeles manse with a large pool, which reflects an undulating Hockneyesque light across the stage, the play deals with art and identity, with Mr. Dorfman moving from bitter frenemy to a compassionate voice by the play’s surreal final act.“I’ve never worked this hard in my life professionally,” he said, as he squeezed lemon juice over the kale. “The show’s a marathon. I’ve never done a play. I honestly do thank God every day when I come to work because the people are so talented and lovely.”Next up, Mr. Dorfman has a role in the coming season of “Jane the Virgin,” a comedy telenovela on CW. “I’m the villain,” he said in a singsong falsetto (to say Mr. Dorfman’s inflection is extremely expressive would be an understatement). He’s also in “American Princess,” a comedy drama from Jenji Kohan, the co-creator of “Orange Is the New Black.” “I’m basically playing a drunk, gay baby,” he said with a shrug.But first he had to conquer the kale. He was given the arduous task of massaging the fibrous leaves into a tender salad. After dousing it with olive oil, he slipped on a pair of plastic gloves and began kneading it violently. After a good 15 minutes, he was working up a sweat again. “Does this mean I don’t have to go to the gym today?” he said.Shortly after 1 p.m., the prep work was done and the proverbial lunch bell rang. Mr. Dorfman ladled the jambalaya over rice, followed by a heaping portion of his salad. “Let’s turn on some music,” he called out. “Bodak Yellow” by Cardi B filled the room. As he worked, his hips swayed and his lips silently mouthed the lyrics.A young man in a yellow hoodie approached for his lunch. “You look familiar,” he said.“Do I?” Mr. Dorfman said with a sly smile, before giving him his plate.

Supported byGood Thursday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)Aramco, Saudi Arabia’s giant oil company, announced yesterday that it had bought 70 percent of the kingdom’s state-controlled petrochemical company, Sabic, for $69.1 billion.This is an alternative to an Aramco I.P.O. The deal for a majority stake in Sabic will provide a windfall for its majority owner: Saudi Arabia’s sovereign wealth fund. Aramco’s postponed plan to sell some of itself on a public stock market would have accomplished something similar.Saudi Arabia now has the money it wanted to modernize its economy. The kingdom’s crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, hopes to fund a campaign to wean Saudi Arabia off oil, by investing in new technology and clean energy. Aramco has now given his government the billions required to do so.And banks still get a gusher of fees. Financial firms that had worked on an Aramco I.P.O. pivoted to advisory roles on the Sabic deal, and many will arrange what’s expected to be a huge bond sale to help finance the transaction.Expect a peek into Aramco’s books. As part of a bond offering, the oil company will have to disclose its financial operations to potential investors. It’s unclear how much it will reveal, but any look at its huge oil reserves is sure to be of interest.The planemaker explained yesterday what it plans to do to upgrade its 737 Max 8 planes, after two fatal crashes in recent months raised global concerns about its safety.Pilots will have more control to override anti-stall software and new alerts, the company said at an event at its factory in Renton, Wash. They will also receive additional training.Boeing defended its Max 8 design process. “In general the process has worked and continues to work, and we see no reason to overhaul the process,” an unnamed Boeing official told the media. (A spokesman later told the WaPo that the comment referred to the plane’s development process, not its safety certifications.)Senators raised questions about safety checks for the Max 8 at a hearing yesterday, pressing federal regulators on all aspects of the process:• The transportation secretary, Elaine Chao, called the current situation “troubling.”• The acting F.A.A. chief, Daniel Elwell, said delegating authority was crucial. Otherwise, he added, the agency needed an extra 10,000 employees and $1.8 billion to oversee safety certification.• The Transportation Department’s inspector general, Calvin Scovel, said his office would conduct an audit into the F.A.A.’s certification of the Max 8.But lawmakers remain skeptical about the regulatory process. “The F.A.A. decided to do safety on the cheap, which is neither cheap nor safe,” Senator Richard Blumenthal, Democrat of Connecticut, said.American and Chinese officials continued to piece together a trade deal during talks in Beijing this week, but progress remains relatively slow.“We have moved forward in all areas,” one unidentified senior U.S. administration official told Reuters. The source said that in particular progress has been made on the practice of forced transfer of American technology to Chinese companies, a central issue for the Trump administration.But “we aren’t yet where we want to be,” the official conceded. The FT adds that “even agreement in less controversial areas — such as increased purchases of U.S. exports and improved market access for foreign investors — is proving difficult to pin down.”Senior U.S. officials arrive in Beijing today to continue the talks. Robert Lighthizer, the U.S. trade representative, and Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, will seek to make more progress. Next week, Vice Premier Liu He of China will head to Washington.The timing of a deal looks increasingly uncertain. “It could go to May, June, no one knows. It could happen in April, we don’t know,” a U.S. official told Reuters.More: Senate Republicans warned President Trump that his tariffs could plunge the U.S. into a recession ahead of the 2020 election.In a last-ditch effort to gain support for her Brexit plan, Prime Minister Theresa May yesterday offered to resign as long as her agreement is approved, Stephen Castle of the NYT writes.Her offer came as Parliament tried to sideline her by coming up with its own plan for Britain’s exit from the E.U. “But when lawmakers held a series of nonbinding votes on Wednesday night on eight different options for Britain’s future relationship with the E.U., none mustered a majority,” Mr. Castle writes.“If Mrs. May’s plan is approved, the battle over the details of Brexit will be fought first in a leadership struggle in the Conservative Party and then by all the other parties and factions that have scrapped with one another throughout the last two years.”But while her deal is gaining some support, many lawmakers are still holding out. Mrs. May will need to win the support of about 70 lawmakers who have already voted against the agreement — twice. Mr. Castle writes that it is “a very tall order.”More: The fund manager Mark Mobius said that the state of Britain’s debt and currency make it look “like an emerging market now.”Behind the Trump administration’s decision this week to seek a complete rejection of the Affordable Care Act was a political wager: Can President Trump appease supporters by upholding a 2016 campaign pledge?Mr. Trump made his decision on Monday after a heated debate in the White House, the NYT reports. Egging on the president were the acting White House chief of staff, Mick Mulvaney, and a top policy aide, Joe Grogan. Opposing the move were the White House counsel, Pat Cipollone; the secretary of health and human services, Alex Azar; and the attorney general, Bill Barr.The argument for taking on Obamacare, according to the NYT: “Mr. Trump has declared that he has kept his promises, Mr. Mulvaney and Mr. Grogan argued, and as a candidate he campaigned on repealing the health law. His base of voters would love it.”Republican lawmakers are worried. They lost control of the House last year largely because of voter concerns about health care. “We need a plan, and right now we don’t have one,” one unnamed Republican senator told Politico.Others are betting against Mr. Trump. Legal scholars think that Chief Justice John Roberts would again defend the law if the matter heads to the Supreme Court. And recent polls show that independent voters don’t approve of Mr. Trump’s handling of health care.More health care news: A federal judge blocked Kentucky and Arkansas from imposing work requirements on Medicaid, a blow to Republican efforts to reshape the program. A British review of Huawei found “significant” security problems with the Chinese company’s telecommunications equipment, Adam Satariano of the NYT reports.There are “underlying defects” in Huawei’s software engineering and security processes, according to the report, which was released this morning. They could be exploited by governments or independent hackers, creating a risk to national security.The report did not call for an outright ban of Huawei equipment, and “described a company with poor engineering practices and problems stemming from those engineering flaws, more than one operating at the orders of Chinese authorities,” Mr. Satariano writes. The findings were endorsed by Britain’s top cybersecurity agency.The conclusions buttress the Trump administration’s argument that Huawei is a grave risk to national security. Yet allies have resisted that push.They still want to manage the risks of using Huawei hardware rather than blocking it outright, to avoid losing momentum in building new high-speed wireless data networks. Earlier this year, the head of Britain’s National Cyber Security Center, Ciaran Martin, said that a complete ban wasn’t necessary.Investors increasingly think that as the global economy slows down, the Fed will have to cut interest rates. Officials at the central bank say that’s not in the cards — at least, not yet, Nick Timiraos of the WSJ reports.• The most recent sign of a rate cut, according to some investors, was last week’s yield-curve inversion. That was when yields on long-term Treasury notes fell below those of short-term ones, which is often interpreted as a harbinger of recession.• But some Fed officials urge patience. “I’d need to see an inversion of some magnitude and/or some duration, and right now we don’t have either,” Bob Kaplan, the president of the Dallas Fed, told the WSJ.• “If you see an inversion that goes on for several months … that’s a different kettle of fish,” he added.• The San Francisco Fed president, Mary Daly, said in a speech earlier this week that she’s “not freaked out” by the yield curve, and “hopefully businesses and market participants won’t freak out” either.More: The European Central Bank is considering how to help the continent’s banks as interest rates look to remain subzero. Swedbank fired Birgitte Bonneson as its C.E.O. today amid allegations that the Swedish lender was involved in Russian money-laundering.Chris Schaepe was ousted from Lightspeed Venture Partners after telling the firm he had hired the consultant at the heart of the college admissions scandal, though he has not been charged.Tim Throsby will step down as the head of Barclays’ investment bank.JPMorgan Chase reportedly plans to lay off hundreds of workers in its asset-management and wealth divisions.Deals• The pending I.P.O.s of Lyft and Pinterest highlight the debate over dual-class shares that let founders control companies with relatively small stock holdings. (DealBook)• Pimco and Elliott Management are reportedly pitching California lawmakers on a restructuring plan for PG&amp;E, the bankrupt utility. (Bloomberg)• Commerzbank employees are reportedly gearing up to oppose a merger with Deutsche Bank. (Bloomberg)• Casper, the mattress company, raised $100 million from Target and other investors at a valuation of $1.1 billion. (Bloomberg)• Bustle Digital, which owns Gawker, agreed to buy The Outline, a struggling online publisher. (Recode)Politics and policy• President Trump is getting exactly what he wants from the U.S. economy — just as economic forecasters are predicting a slowdown. (NYT)• The Supreme Court heard arguments on whether to curb the power of administrative agencies like the Department of Veterans Affairs. (NYT)• Stephen Moore, the economic commentator whom Mr. Trump plans to nominate to the Fed, owes $75,000 in unpaid federal taxes and penalties. (NYT)• The House Oversight and Reform Committee is seeking 10 years’ worth of Mr. Trump’s financial records from an accounting firm. (Politico)• The Trump administration has reportedly strengthened its support for Israel in part because the shale boom has made the U.S. less dependent on oil imports. (FT)Tech• Facebook will ban white nationalist content from its platforms. Related: why video games are fertile ground for white nationalist recruitment. (NYT, NYT Op-Ed)• More on Facebook: Here’s a peek inside the growth machine that gave it more than a billion users. (FT)• Microsoft seized 99 websites that it said were used by Iranian hackers to try to steal sensitive information from people in Washington. (NYT)• President Trump met with Sundar Pichai of Google yesterday, and tweeted that the C.E.O. is “totally committed to the U.S. Military, not the Chinese Military.” (WSJ)• Flaws in Bitcoin may mean that it never bounces back to its heights. (Economist)• Millennials might not be giving up on car ownership after all. (Bloomberg Opinion)Best of the rest• A newly formed Nissan committee recommended overhauling the company’s board in order to move past the arrest of its former chairman, Carlos Ghosn. (NYT)• A New Jersey jury unanimously cleared Johnson &amp; Johnson in the latest trial over whether its talc products caused a consumer’s cancer. (NYT)• But a California jury awarded $80.3 million in damages to a man who it decided had contracted cancer from exposure to Bayer’s Roundup weedkiller. (WSJ)• Bill McGlashan, who was ousted from TPG over the college admission scandal, argued yesterday that he hadn’t actually done anything illegal — yet. (Recode)• The Chinese delivery company Meituan is so cheap, it’s changing how people eat. (Bloomberg Businessweek)• How a TripAdvisor worker helped hunt down a prolific robocaller. (Wired)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.

Supported byThe British prime minister’s deal has failed. Again.By Jenni RussellContributing Opinion WriterThis Op-Ed has been updated to reflect news developments.LONDON — My first attempt to charm Theresa May was eight years ago, in the grand surroundings of the State Dining Room in Downing Street, where a couple of hundred women had been invited to a reception for International Women’s Day. Mrs. May, then the home secretary, arrived to the event late and perched by a table looking uncomfortable and alone. She was the only minister not surrounded by a jostling crowd. I told a gaggle of female correspondents that I was going to talk to her. “Don’t bother,” they said. “She’s a blank wall. She never tells you anything.”I didn’t believe them. In general, politicians need journalists to exchange gossip, spin, insights and facts. I took my glass and introduced myself. Mrs. May gave a small tight smile. Every question I asked, from how she was doing to what challenges she faced at the home office, was batted away with monosyllables. I was baffled. She clearly saw no point in creating a relationship, or explaining any of her thinking to me.This would have been an irrelevant encounter with an unimportant hack except that practically everybody, from fellow ministers to advisers to European leaders, turns out to have experienced a version of it. Mrs. May’s extraordinary inability to develop or grasp the critical importance of alliances, friendships, coalitions and mutual understanding in politics has destroyed her premiership — and derailed the Brexit process from its beginning to its calamitous stalemate today.This week, Mrs. May sealed her fate. She announced to her Conservative Party that if they voted for the Brexit deal she negotiated with the European Union — and which Parliament had, humiliatingly, voted down twice already — she would finally resign. On Friday afternoon, Parliament voted down the deal for a remarkable third time. What happens next with Brexit remains terrifyingly uncertain and it’s not clear how much longer Mrs. May can hang on. But one way or another, her days are numbered. And the damage is done.When Mrs. May unexpectedly became the Conservative Party’s leader optimists hoped that despite her dullness — or perhaps because of it — she would be a cautious, careful prime minister. As a former Remainer she could have sought common ground between both Leavers and the 48 percent of voters who wanted to stay. It quickly became clear she would do no such thing.Mrs. May has made dozens of strategic mistakes in the past three years, from calling a general election that destroyed her parliamentary majority to vindictively sacking talented members of her cabinet who had previously opposed her, to allying herself with the most destructive and intransigent Brexiteers in her Conservative Party.Each of these errors has stemmed from the same fatal flaw: her belief that she can lead and win without paying attention to what her allies, enemies, colleagues — and potential collaborators — want or think. Famously wooden, she seems to regard other crucial players in politics as pieces she can move around a chessboard without motivations of their own.European Union officials and European leaders have reeled at Mrs. May’s rigidity in Brexit negotiations over the past two years. But this is no surprise to her colleagues. A senior politician who spent years alongside her in the cabinet says that Mrs. May never understood the concept of negotiation. She simply expected the other side to give way. “With most people you go into a room and you say, I need X, you need Y, and the two of you end up with Z. It’s iterative, a compromise. She just doesn’t work like that.”Nor, the former minister says, does she have the mental agility or intellectual curiosity to handle a complex, shifting political landscape. An effective strategy for Brexit would have required endless brainstorming with key players, from diplomats to advisers. “But you cannot sit in a room with her and have a free-ranging discussion, what about this, what about that. She just can’t do it.” Disastrously, she prefers secretive consultations with her husband Philip and just a couple of trusted colleagues.Why and how did this shy, private woman first seek this very public role and then cling so ferociously on to it? Colleagues of hers tell me it is because the Conservative Party is the center of her life. Brought up by her father, a High Anglican vicar, to believe in duty above all, she has transferred that sense of service to the Conservative Party. The party offers higher purpose, codes, rituals and community, just as the church does. She spends many Saturday afternoons canvassing for it. It is why over her disastrous time in office she has so fatally placed its unity above the interests of the country in Brexit.Mrs. May’s willful ignorance and obstinacy means she has never understood the landscape she’s operating in, where the minefields lie, where the safe places and escape routes might be. She has essentially been blundering her way blindfolded through the most delicate and critical negotiations that Britain has faced since the Second World War, and now she has blown up her political career. She may have blown up the country along the way. Her leadership is in its dying days. She is on her way out, whether within days, weeks or months. Despite all her duty, she will be remembered as one of the most inadequate and disastrous leaders the country has ever had.Jenni Russell (@jennirsl) is a columnist for The Times of London and a contributing opinion writer.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported byBy Isabella Grullón PazFrom Michael Cohen’s testimony to the Trump-Kim Jong-un summit, it’s been a busy week in American politics. Here are some of the biggest stories you might have missed (and some links if you’d like to read further).___________________In a daylong hearing before the House Oversight and Reform Committee on Wednesday, Michael D. Cohen, President Trump’s former personal lawyer, offered a damning portrayal of life inside the president’s orbit — where, he said, advisers sacrifice integrity for proximity to power.Accusations by Mr. Cohen, such as the president’s alleged knowledge of the hacked Democratic emails released by WikiLeaks, could create new legal issues for Mr. Trump. His testimony also revived questions about whether the president broke the law by failing to disclose that he had footed the bill for a hush payment to a pornographic film actress.Internal memos revealed Thursday show that Mr. Trump ordered his chief of staff to grant Jared Kushner, his son-in-law and senior adviser, a top-secret security clearance last year, overruling concerns from intelligence officials. The memos contradict previous statements made by the president, who said he had no role in Mr. Kushner’s clearance.In the wake of the revelation about Mr. Kushner’s clearance, two House committees are seeking documents and interviews with officials.Additional Reading• Washington Official Subpoenas Trump Inaugural Committee• Cohen Testimony Is a Test for Both Parties in the Year Ahead• Trump vs. Cohen: The Breakup of a New York RelationshipFar away from Capitol Hill and Mr. Cohen’s testimony, Mr. Trump was in Hanoi, Vietnam, meeting with the North Korean leader Kim Jong-un for the second time. It was the latest example of big moments for Mr. Trump on the world stage being overshadowed by events at home.The talks with Mr. Kim were cut short on Thursday, without the hoped-for agreement on first steps toward denuclearizing North Korea. Mr. Trump had bet that his self-described skills as a dealmaker would be enough to persuade the North to renounce its nuclear weapons program; in failing, he laid bare the risks of one-to-one diplomacy.Mr. Trump delayed his deadline to increase tariffs on Chinese goods on Sunday, as his administration kept trying to persuade China to make significant structural changes to its economy. That decision could become a political liability in 2020.On Thursday, the president said his administration was “well on our way to doing something special” with China, but his top economic advisers have sent a series of conflicting messages about the trade talks’ status.Additional Reading• Defender of World Order or Trump Mouthpiece? Pompeo Is Tested by North Korea, Iran and U.S. Allies• On Foreign Trips, Pence Steps Out of Trump’s Shadow but Always Stays on Message• Cozy Up to U.S., Vietnam Tells North Korea. Look What It Did for Us.The House voted on Tuesday to block Mr. Trump’s declaration of a national emergency at the Mexican border, seeking to stop the diversion of funds to his wall. The resolution will now be taken up by the Senate, where it is one vote short of passage.Gun control once badly divided the Democratic Party. But on Wednesday, the Democrat-controlled House voted to require background checks for all gun purchasers, including at gun shows and on the internet. It was the first significant gun control bill to clear the chamber in decades. Here’s more about the vote and a look at what could come next.More than 100 House Democrats rallied around a “Medicare for all” bill that would eliminate most private health insurance. But the proposal, which was light on details, highlighted a new split within the party.The chairman of the House Intelligence Committee said Democrats were prepared to go to court to force the release of the final report from the special counsel if it is not made public.Additional Reading• In Conservative Districts, Democrats Have to Answer for Party’s Left Wing• Health Care and Insurance Industries Mobilize to Kill ‘Medicare for All’• G.O.P. Tries to Hold Down Defections Before Vote to Block Trump’s Emergency• Who is Konstantin Kilimnik, and what did he and Paul Manafort, Mr. Trump’s former campaign chairman, discuss in 2016? Here’s the story behind the Russian operative who’s central to the special counsel’s investigation.• Labor Secretary R. Alexander Acosta is facing rising pressure over the lenient plea bargain that he helped negotiate with Jeffrey Epstein, a wealthy Trump acquaintance accused of trafficking children for sex.• A woman who worked on Mr. Trump’s 2016 presidential campaign sued him in federal court on Monday, saying that he forcibly kissed her at a campaign event in Florida months before the election.• Mark Harris, the North Carolina Republican whose bid for the state’s Ninth Congressional District seat collapsed after a fraud-tainted voter-turnout effort, said he would not run in a new election.• Virginia’s first lady, Pam Northam, apologized for handing raw cotton to black children touring the governor’s mansion and asking them to imagine being enslaved and having to pick the crop._____________________Today’s On Politics briefing was compiled by Isabella Grullón Paz in New YorkIs there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.

Supported byIt's our own fault we elected Trump.By Farhad ManjooOpinion ColumnistOn a bitter night nearly two-and-a-half squandered years ago, Donald Trump was duly elected the 45th president of the United States of America. His victory was a political scandal, a democratic emergency and a moral shame — but as Robert Mueller seems to have concluded after a definitive investigation, Mr. Trump’s win was not the illegitimate product of a treasonous conspiracy.There was no collusion. The president was not a Manchurian candidate. And we can’t lay the blame for this whole thing on Vladimir Putin.Indeed, the truest horror in Mr. Mueller’s finding is that we did not need Mr. Putin to be pulling the strings. We know now that under our shambolic democracy, a man as unfit as Mr. Trump really can legitimately acquire all the terrifying powers of the presidency without being controlled by a foreign puppet master.[Farhad Manjoo answered your questions about this column on Twitter.]The second true horror concerns a historically wasted opportunity. In the years we’ve spent chasing the fantastical ghosts of collusion, we have all but ignored the structural weaknesses plaguing every corner of the American establishment, from its political parties to its news media to its tilted economic landscape and, most important, the unfair machinery of its democracy.Mr. Mueller's indictments show that Russian agents interfered with the 2016 election by sowing discord on social media and hacking and disseminating Democrats' emails. Yet it now seems wiser to point to our intrinsically American shortcomings, more than Russian interference, for Mr. Trump’s victory. And in rushing to blame Russian collusion, we have wasted time and political opportunity that we might better have spent reckoning with how to prevent a Trump-like catastrophe from happening again.I’m spelling all this out starkly, because in the spinning to come, it will be all too easy to lose yourself in misdirection. If you are a liberal, you might be especially tempted to give in to the aggrieved and embarrassed #resistance-tweeting punditocracy now throwing up endless reasons for downplaying Mr. Mueller’s finding: We still haven’t seen the whole report! The attorney general is a toady! Don’t forget about all those other investigations of all those other crimes!These are all important points. But don’t overlook the headline finding. Like the Trump victory itself, Mr. Mueller’s no-collusion conclusion should leave a mark. It lands like a rotten egg on a political and media establishment that had gone all-in on its own self-serving — and wrong — theory of the case. Before we embark on yet more investigations, it is worth examining, now, why the collusion fantasy proved so irresistible to so many of us — and what we all might have done with our time instead.Here’s my theory: Collusion was a seductive and convenient delusion. For many Americans, the simple truth that Mr. Trump really had won was too terrible to bear. The ease with which a racist, misogynist, serial con man had slipped past every gatekeeper in American life suggested something deeply sick at the core of our society.In particular, Mr. Trump’s win pointed to tectonic failures within the mainstream news media, whose leading brands had fanned the showman’s rise with copious television coverage; indulged his every gimmick with yet more attention; and elevated his opponent’s trifling email-management kerfuffle into a scandal of world-historic import.Mr. Trump’s win also pointed to the failure of our political parties. After years of playing footsie with extremists, the Republicans created an environment in which a racist demagogue could swallow them whole.Democrats, meanwhile, dismissed the economic and social unease roiling their ranks and nominated a deeply unpopular candidate who lacked any novel vision for American life. And then she forgot to campaign in Michigan.There were other minor factors in this American tragedy: Jim Comey’s grandstanding; the tech giants’ inability to appreciate or curb the chaotic powers of their new communications platforms; our collective innumeracy regarding polling; and a naïve failure to appreciate the profound fragility of our national enterprise.Finally there was the plainer constitutional failure. You didn’t need a two-year federal investigation to determine the single most important lesson of the 2016 race: America does not treat all its voters, and all of its votes, equally. Across the country, the voices of thousands and possibly millions of people were suppressed. Millions more votes went essentially uncounted, because the perversities of the Electoral College elevate a few thousand votes in the Midwest over a few million in California.It’s true that we have begun, belatedly, to shine a spotlight on many of these deep-rooted problems. But the Mueller investigation sucked up all the political energy. For many in the political and media establishment, the possibility of collusion offered moral expiation for collective complicity. Rather than begin the hard work of addressing what had actually gone wrong, many of us were swept up in social-media-fueled feedback loops looking for an instant fix: The orgiastic pee tape would turn up and clear up the whole funny misunderstanding.From here, the story of 2016 looks rather straightforward: Mr. Trump was the corrupt, misbegotten choice of a citizenry mired in partisan mistrust, seething with racial grievance, informed by a beleaguered and fracturing news media, and laboring under an economic and political system that had long ceased functioning for all but the wealthiest of its citizens.His victory pointed to a systemic failure. In the end the only golden shower that mattered was the one soaking American democracy — but it’s been raining so long and so hard that we’re just about content to ignore the storm.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Farhad Manjoo became an opinion columnist for The Times in 2018. Before that, he wrote the State of the Art column. He is the author of “True Enough: Learning to Live in a Post-Fact Society.”  @fmanjoo • Facebook 

Supported byBy Michael M. GrynbaumIn an unusual reproach, Fox News on Monday criticized one of its star personalities, Jeanine Pirro, after the host questioned if a Muslim lawmaker’s religious beliefs undermined her loyalty to the United States.The network has not yet commented on remarks by another of its prime-time stars, Tucker Carlson, who faced a second day of scrutiny after the left-wing advocacy group Media Matters for America exhumed offensive comments he made on a shock-jock radio program about a decade ago.In excerpts published by Media Matters, Mr. Carlson, calling into the “Bubba the Love Sponge” show, mused in 2006 that “arranging a marriage between a 16-year-old and a 27-year-old is not the same as pulling a stranger off the street and raping her.”On the Monday episode of his 8 p.m. program on Fox News, “Tucker Carlson Tonight,” the host cast himself as a target of a liberal “mob” and suggested that the political left wanted to shut down his network.“Fox News is behind us as they have been from the very first day,” Mr. Carlson told viewers. He added: “We will never bow to the mob. Ever. No matter what.”As Mr. Carlson was speaking, Media Matters released a second batch of excerpts from his appearances on the “Bubba” radio program, including a clip from 2008 in which Mr. Carlson described Iraq as “a crappy place filled with a bunch of, you know, semiliterate primitive monkeys — that’s why it wasn’t worth invading.” Calling into the show in 2006, Mr. Carlson said of Barack Obama, then an Illinois senator, “How is he black, for one thing? He has one white parent, one black parent.”Fox News has long grappled with fallout from incendiary remarks by its commentators. In 2017, Ms. Pirro was criticized for saying that prosecutors investigating President Trump “need to be taken out in cuffs.” Another host, Laura Ingraham, lost advertisers after she mocked students who survived the Parkland, Fla., school shooting, and after she referred to American facilities holding immigrant children as “essentially summer camps.”Still, the network has faced unusually sharp scrutiny over the past week, starting with an article in The New Yorker that chronicled the close-knit relationship between Mr. Trump’s inner circle and Fox News personnel. One network alumnus in the White House, the deputy chief of staff Bill Shine, resigned from his position on Friday after a brief, bumpy tenure.On Saturday night, Ms. Pirro, the prosecutor turned politician turned TV host who is close to Mr. Trump, attacked Representative Ilhan Omar, Democrat of Minnesota, in the opening remarks of her weekend show, “Justice With Judge Jeanine.”“Think about it: Omar wears a hijab,” Ms. Pirro said. “Is her adherence to this Islamic doctrine indicative of her adherence to Shariah law, which in itself is antithetical to the United States Constitution?”Her comments were widely condemned as prejudiced, including by a Fox News producer, Hufsa Kamal, who wrote to Ms. Pirro on Twitter: “can you stop spreading this false narrative that somehow Muslims hate America or women who wear a hijab aren’t American enough? You have Muslims working at the same network you do, including myself.”Fox News responded on Sunday, about 24 hours after Ms. Pirro’s show was aired. “We strongly condemn Jeanine Pirro’s comments about Representative Ilhan Omar. They do not reflect those of the network and we have addressed the matter with her directly,” the network said in a statement.Ms. Pirro, whose fiery monologues have helped her show’s ratings, sounded less contrite. “I’ve seen a lot of comments about my opening statement from Saturday night’s show and I did not call Representative Omar un-American,” she wrote in a separate statement. “My intention was to ask a question and start a debate, but of course because one is Muslim does not mean you don’t support the Constitution.”Ms. Omar caused an uproar in Washington recently after making remarks in Congress that were attacked as anti-Semitic, leading the House to pass a resolution last week condemning intolerance.Mr. Carlson came under fire late Sunday after the initial report by Media Matters, including a clip in which he used lewd language to describe Alexis Stewart, the daughter of Martha Stewart, and said, “I just wanted to give her the spanking she so desperately needs.”Mr. Carlson, a provocateur who enjoys flouting notions of political correctness, has been called out for misogynist comments before. In 2015, he defended his brother after an email exchange showed his brother making deeply sexist remarks about a female aide to Mayor Bill de Blasio of New York.In a statement before his Monday show, Mr. Carlson did not apologize for his “Bubba” comments.“Media Matters caught me saying something naughty on a radio show more than a decade ago,” Mr. Carlson wrote. “Rather than express the usual ritual contrition, how about this: I’m on television every weeknight live for an hour. If you want to know what I think, you can watch. Anyone who disagrees with my views is welcome to come on and explain why.”Fox News is not the only cable news network that has had to grapple with a star anchor’s troubling past remarks.Joy-Ann Reid, the MSNBC host, apologized last year after revelations that she had published numerous homophobic posts and jokes on a blog that is now defunct. She also claimed without evidence that the homophobic remarks had been inserted by hackers intent on harming her reputation. MSNBC did not discipline Ms. Reid.

Supported byIn “Deep Medicine,” Dr. Eric Topol looks at the ways that A.I. could improve health care, and where it might stumble.By Anahad O’ConnorLast month, President Trump signed an executive order making the development and regulation of artificial intelligence a federal priority. But one area where artificial intelligence is already taking hold is health care. Doctors are already using A.I. to spot potentially lethal lesions on mammograms. Scientists are also developing A.I. systems that can diagnose common childhood conditions, predict whether a person will develop Alzheimer’s disease and monitor people with conditions like multiple sclerosis and Parkinson’s disease.Dr. Eric Topol, a cardiologist and the founder and director of the Scripps Research Translational Institute, has long heralded this convergence of technology and medicine. Now, in a new book called “Deep Medicine: How Artificial Intelligence Can Make Healthcare Human Again,” Dr. Topol explores how A.I. is likely to transform almost everything that doctors do.Dr. Topol believes that A.I. can do more than enhance diagnoses and treatments. It can also save doctors from doing tasks like taking notes and reading scans, allowing them to spend more time connecting with their patients. Recently, we caught up with Dr. Topol to discuss his thoughts on where A.I. has the most potential to improve health care, where it might stumble, and how it could protect doctors from things like burnout and depression. Here are edited excerpts from our interview. Q. Can A.I. help to lower America’s soaring health care costs?A. Yes. The No. 1 line item of health care cost in America is human resources, which has recently grown — as of December 2017 towering over retail — to be the leading job source for our economy. By augmenting human performance, A.I. has the potential to markedly improve productivity, efficiency, work flow, accuracy and speed, both for doctors and for patients. giving more charge and control to consumers through algorithmic support of their data. Q. Can you talk about the area of medicine where A.I. shows the most promise?A. There are a few key areas. One is machine pattern recognition to promote the rapid and accurate reading of medical scans, slides, skin lesions, the pickup of small polyps during colonoscopy, and much more. Another is keyboard liberation, or using natural language processing of speech to synthesize notes and eliminate the ultimate source of distraction and dislike in medical encounters. A.I. can also predict key outcomes for both patients and clinicians to promote prevention. Q. Where is A.I. most likely to fail?A. There’s no shortage of deep liabilities for A.I. in health care. The liabilities include breaches of privacy and security, hacking, the lack of explainability of most A.I. algorithms, the potential to worsen inequities, the embedded bias and ethical quandaries.Q. In your book you talk a lot about the rapid growth of A.I. companies in the radiology space. Will A.I. make radiologists obsolete?A. Absolutely not. I wrote about a new role for radiologists, whereby they come out of the basement and have direct interactions with patients. We can’t, and will never, rely on only algorithms for interpretation of life and death matters. That requires human expert contextualization, something machines can’t do.Q. Can you share your thoughts on one or two of the most innovative or impressive A.I. companies you’ve come across?A. I don’t think there’s a standout just yet. For start-ups, I admire the way AliveCor, with their Mayo Clinic collaboration, was able to develop deep learning algorithms to determine a person’s blood potassium levels via a smartwatch ECG signal. For tech titans, Google AI and its DeepMind division has done some impressive work that includes accurately triaging urgent eye conditions, predicting outcomes in the hospital setting, and an important prospective study of pathology slides in cancer.Q. You’ve long been a big fan of personalized nutrition. Will we ever get to a point where A.I. can determine the best diet for every individual?A. There are emerging data to support this possibility, such as avoiding glucose spikes after eating, which are highly individualized, much more common than anticipated, and related to the specific foods we take in and our gut microbiomes. It’s still early but definitely getting traction from ongoing work.Q. In the future will A.I.-assisted robots replace surgeons?A. No way. A.I. can help the precision of delicate microsurgery, as we have already seen with the retina. There will be better robots for surgery than we have now. But that won’t obviate the need for human surgeons. It will just augment their performance. Would you want your surgery to be done by a robot? Q. Studies show that A.I. can detect depression by scanning a person’s Instagram photos. Could A.I. be a game changer for the mental health field?A. Yes, but not via your Instagram posts! For the first time we’ve got real-time, objective metrics for state of mind and mood like tone of speech, breathing pattern, smartphone keystrokes and communication, and physical activity. And we’ve learned people would rather share their innermost secrets with an avatar compared with a human being. So, the landscape is ripe for A.I. to help alleviate the profound shortage of health professionals compared with the enormous burden of depression and other mental health conditions. Q. What are you most excited about with A.I. in health care? Is there anything that worries you?A. What I’m most excited about is using the future to bring back the past: To restore the care in health care. By giving both the gift of time to clinicians, who are at peak levels ever recorded for burnout and depression, and empowerment to patients, for those who want it, this will ultimately be possible. But it will require substantial activism of the medical community to stand up for patients and not allow the jump in productivity to further squeeze clinicians, upending the erosion of the doctor-patient relationship.Anahad O’Connor is a staff reporter covering health, science, nutrition and other topics. He is also a bestselling author of consumer health books such as “Never Shower in a Thunderstorm” and “The 10 Things You Need to Eat.”  

Supported byBy Neil MacFarquharMOSCOW — There was crowing in Russia on Monday that the special counsel’s investigation did not find coordination between Moscow and the Trump campaign in 2016, but optimism about improved relations was tempered by the report’s extensive focus on Russian meddling in the presidential election.Official reaction to a summary of Robert S. Mueller III’s report that was released on Sunday proved decidedly muted.Dmitri S. Peskov, the spokesman for President Vladimir V. Putin, told reporters that the only news in the summary was the “recognition that there wasn’t any collusion,” and he repeated his denial that Russia had interfered in the American election. Mr. Putin has maintained a steady interest in good relations with the United States, he said, while American actions toward Russia have been erratic, so the ball is in Washington’s court.From others in the Kremlin elite, however, the main refrain was “we told you so,” along with some hope that President Trump would now be free to pursue his campaign goal of improving relations with Russia.“Mueller’s long-awaited report proved what was known in Russia from the very beginning,” Konstantin Kosachev, the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee in the upper house of the Russian Parliament, wrote on Facebook. “There was no collusion between Trump and any of his team with Russia.”Rossiya 24, the main state television news channel, was more mocking, saying it took tens of millions of dollars for “the mountain to bring forth a mouse.”The full report has not been released, and an extended battle is expected in Washington over its fate. But the four-page summary issued by Attorney General William P. Barr noted twice that the investigation had not established that the Kremlin and the Trump campaign had worked together in the Russian meddling.“The Special Counsel did not find that the Trump campaign, or anyone associated with it, conspired or coordinated with the Russian government in these efforts, despite multiple offers from Russian-affiliated individuals to assist the Trump campaign,” Mr. Barr’s summary said.Mr. Kosachev said he regretted the two lost years during which Russian-American relations were hampered by sanctions and continued accusations of wrongdoing. Various officials and analysts said they hoped that there would be new initiatives soon toward Russia from the Trump administration, but there were varying degrees of optimism about when this might happen and how substantial they might be.“To some extent, the leader of the United States now has greater room to maneuver, which, in principle, he can use,” Mr. Kosachev wrote. Still, he noted, Congress retains significant control over lifting sanctions, and hawks like John R. Bolton, Mr. Trump’s national security adviser, will not necessarily endorse improving ties. “In any case, there is a chance to reset to zero a lot in our relations,” Mr. Kosachev said, “but will Trump take that risk — for now it’s a question.”There are, of course, serious issues dividing Moscow and the West that are unrelated to the 2016 election or the Mueller investigation: Russia’s aggression against Ukraine, its alliance with Iran and support for President Bashar al-Assad in Syria’s civil war, its backing of President Nicolás Maduro of Venezuela and the poisoning of a retired Russian spy and his daughter with a nerve agent in Britain.“I don’t think this will change much,” said Aleksei V. Makarkin, an analyst with the Center for Political Technologies, a Moscow think tank. The myriad areas of conflict “do not allow us to consider these relations with optimism,” he said.Others noted that a significant portion of the Mueller report summary addressed Russian efforts to sway the 2016 presidential election and damage Mr. Trump’s opponent, Hillary Clinton.One element of that effort was the work of the St. Petersburg-based Internet Research Agency to sow social discord in the United States through a disinformation campaign. Another involved computer hacking, especially of the Clinton campaign, to obtain information that could influence the election.The investigation resulted in indictments against 26 Russians, many of them government intelligence officers, and three Russian companies, although there is no real expectation that they will ever stand trial.Aleksandr Morozov, a frequent Kremlin critic, noted that the report confirmed Russian interference in the election. The Kremlin can hope either to reset relations, to wait until the damage fades or to continue with business as usual, said Mr. Morozov, a researcher at the Boris Nemtsov Academic Center for the Study of Russia branch in Prague.Moscow will probably choose to continue with its campaign of disinformation and disruption against American democracy, he said in an interview. “It is difficult to imagine that relations can get better now,” he said. “So that means that the Kremlin will try to continue with the hybrid war and also attempt to push this event out of the Russian-American agenda with the help of some new ones.”Analysts of all stripes said that without the cloud of the Mueller investigation over him, Mr. Trump might return to his idea of a grand bargain with Mr. Putin, something he had appeared to put on the back burner as the accusations swirled.“Now he can say this is my political plan and not the result of any wrongdoing,” said Ivan I. Kurilla, a historian at the European University at St. Petersburg who specializes in Russian-American relations.Whether that will be enough to clear a path for Mr. Trump is another matter. The Kremlin is cautious about his mercurial moods, and Democrats will continue to challenge the president over Russian actions, particularly the election meddling described by Mr. Mueller.“He is not seen as a reliable partner for Russia,” said Dmitri Trenin, the head of the Carnegie Moscow Center. “Russia will continue to be what it has been for the last two years in the United States, a political football kicked around by all sides.”Mr. Kurilla said there was a panoply of issues on which talks could at least get started, ranging from smaller disputes like the recent mutual expulsion of diplomats and closing of consulates to larger issues like the war in Ukraine, arms control or the situation in Venezuela.Compared with the summit meetings that Mr. Trump has held with the leader of North Korea, Kim Jong-un, Mr. Putin may seem a far more important, more tempting target, he said.“I always see Trump’s meeting with Kim Jong-un of North Korea as a rehearsal of what he was going to do with Putin,” Mr. Kurilla said. “A meeting of two strong men, and some big deal to make the world less dangerous. He will probably return to the idea of some bargain, some grand deal between Russia and the United States.”Still, any change will take time.“I don’t expect Trump to lift the sanctions and he and Putin to embrace each other tomorrow,” Mr. Kurilla said.Ivan Nechepurenko and Andrew Kramer contributed reporting.Follow Neil MacFarquhar on Twitter: @NeilMacFarquhar.

Supported bySo far it’s a vindication of the rule of law. Now the public needs to read it.By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.Give President Trump this much: In the face of the biggest existential threat to his presidency, the special counsel’s Russia investigation, he checked himself where it mattered most.Yes, his near-daily campaign to mock and discredit Robert Mueller’s “witch hunt” has now lasted longer than his campaign for the White House. His shameful, conspiratorial attacks on the “deep state,” and on the integrity of those who have devoted their lives to upholding the rule of law, have damaged the institutions of federal law enforcement and may have gotten him in even deeper trouble.Still, one persistent danger — that Mr. Trump would find a way to scuttle the investigation before it could be completed — never materialized. On Friday afternoon, Mr. Mueller, nearly two years after he was appointed to look into possible ties between the Trump campaign and the Russian government, delivered a full report of his findings and recommendations to the attorney general, as required by Justice Department regulations.Mr. Trump even joined a remarkably bipartisan House of Representatives, along with a vast majority of the American public, in calling for the release of Mr. Mueller’s report. “Let people see it,” he said on Wednesday. “There was no collusion. There was no obstruction. There was no nothing.”On the first point, we can all agree. William Barr, the attorney general, needs to release as much of Mr. Mueller’s work as he possibly can, and soon.We’ll reserve judgment on the second. It may prove that Mr. Trump has kept repeating his mantra of “no collusion” because it’s true. But even if Mr. Mueller has found in the end that Mr. Trump did not knowingly conspire with Russia — and it is profoundly to be hoped that the report settles that question, one way or the other — that doesn't mean this inquiry has been a witch hunt.Throughout the campaign and transition, Mr. Trump and many of his top officials and advisers had more than 100 contacts with Russian nationals and WikiLeaks, or their intermediaries. These contacts were apparently so unmemorable that many Trump advisers forgot all about them, even when asked under oath.Lying to federal officials is a crime, and at least four of Mr. Trump’s top aides (so far) have copped to doing it about their Russian contacts: Michael Flynn, the president’s first national security adviser; Rick Gates, the deputy campaign chairman; George Papadopoulos, a foreign policy adviser on the campaign; and Michael Cohen, the president’s longtime personal lawyer and fixer.Paul Manafort is also accused of lying repeatedly to investigators, but that’s the least of his problems. Mr. Manafort, who served as Mr. Trump’s campaign chairman for three months, is now serving seven-plus years in prison for money laundering and other crimes related to his years of lucrative work for political clients in Ukraine.And don’t forget Roger Stone, whose adventure through the justice system has only just begun. Mr. Stone, a longtime Trump adviser and political dirty trickster with roots going back to the Nixon administration, was arrested in January in an early-morning raid at his home and charged with multiple counts of false statements, obstruction of justice and witness tampering.Quite a team Mr. Trump surrounded himself with! And we haven’t even gotten to his son Donald Trump Jr., who needed no arm-twisting to accept a Russian offer of assistance during the campaign (“If it’s what you say I love it, especially later in the summer”), and his son-in-law, Jared Kushner, who seemed to have his hands in everything.At the heart of it all is Mr. Trump’s own behavior — his unexplained affection for the Russian president, Vladimir Putin, and his knack for knowing just the right time to encourage election interference. “Russia, if you’re listening, I hope you’re able to find the 30,000 emails that are missing,” Mr. Trump, in a reference to Hillary Clinton’s emails, said on July 27, 2016 — the same day, as it happened, that the Russians began doing just that. (Last year, Mr. Mueller gained the indictment of 12 Russian military intelligence officers for their role in hacking computer servers of the Clinton campaign and the Democratic National Committee.)Then there are the times Mr. Trump interfered in the investigation himself — first urging then-F.B.I. director James Comey to drop the bureau’s investigation into Mr. Flynn, then firing Mr. Comey when he refused. Two days later, Mr. Trump said on national television that he’d fired Mr. Comey at least in part because of “this Russia thing with Trump and Russia.”This doesn’t count roughly a dozen other investigations into the president, several of which could ultimately expose him to even greater legal or political peril than Mr. Mueller’s. Most serious is the investigation by federal prosecutors in New York, which has already resulted in a three-year prison sentence for Mr. Cohen for his role in committing federal campaign-finance crimes to cover up hush-money payments to women claiming they had affairs with Mr. Trump — a cover-up that prosecutors say Mr. Trump aided after becoming president.Last month, Mr. Cohen spent some of his last moments as a free man testifying before Congress that Mr. Trump also lied during the campaign about negotiations to build a long-planned skyscraper in Moscow, which were continuing through much of 2016. Didn’t he worry that the lies could come back to hurt him? “He never expected to win the election,” Mr. Cohen said.Whether or not a sitting president can be indicted is a long-running debate among lawyers, but either way, Mr. Trump is sure to be under investigation for the rest of his term in office, and probably in court for the rest of his life.If he were less self-involved or paranoid, Mr. Trump would be grateful that his investigator was a man whose name is synonymous with integrity and fairness — and not, as the journalist Garrett Graff wrote, “the Democratic version of Ken Starr.”Whatever Mr. Trump’s reasons for doing the right thing and letting Mr. Mueller complete his work — bluffing, self-interest or resignation — they matter less than the fact that he did it. It may be a low bar, but given Mr. Trump’s demonstrated contempt for ideals of justice, it’s still something. No matter what Mr. Mueller’s efforts have turned up, the fact that he is now presenting his findings free of presidential interference is a bit of good news for the rule of law in America.Now all Americans deserve the chance to review those findings and reach their own conclusions. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported byBy Matt Apuzzo and Benjamin NovakBUDAPEST — The International Investment Bank, an obscure Russian financial institution with a small-time balance sheet, is an unlikely source of global intrigue. In more normal times, its plans to open a new headquarters in Budapest would pass unnoticed.But the bank’s chairman has longstanding ties to Russian intelligence agencies. And the Hungarian Parliament has effectively granted the bank diplomatic immunity from any scrutiny by police or financial regulators — leaving Western security officials concerned that Russian spies could use it as a base to conduct European intelligence operations.Several European nations have expelled Russian agents and cracked down on Kremlin finances in an effort to present a united front as Moscow is accused of meddling in the American election, poisoning a former spy in Britain and  targeting European think tanks with hacking attacks.And if the Europeans are now concerned about the Russian bank, so are the Americans, especially since the Trump administration has cultivated Hungary’s prime minister, Viktor Orban, as an ally. Days before Parliament granted immunity to the Russian bank, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo met Mr. Orban in Budapest and warned against allowing Russia to drive a wedge between friends.“Hungarians know all too well from their history that an authoritarian Russia will never be a friend to the freedom and sovereignty of smaller nations,” he said.Europe has always been divided in its attitudes toward Russia, a split evident now in the number of far-right parties that are embracing the Russian president, Vladimir V. Putin. But the bank caught the attention of Western officials because Mr. Orban — the leader of a country that is a member of both the European Union and NATO — has stirred anxiety by steadily forging closer ties with the Russian leader.An anti-immigrant, far-right leader who has systematically weakened Hungary’s democratic institutions, Mr. Orban has pointed to Russia as a beacon of his model of so-called illiberal democracy. He has worked to keep Ukraine from joining NATO and routinely lashes out at European Union leaders in Brussels, accusing them of endangering national security through immigration.Then late last summer, Hungarian officials stunned their American counterparts. The two countries had worked together in Hungary to capture a pair of Russians suspected of being arms dealers. The Justice Department moved quickly to extradite the two men to face trial in the United States, but Hungary sent them to Russia instead. “It is unclear whether they will face trial,” the State Department said in a pointed public statement.Mr. Orban has awarded a Kremlin-owned company a no-bid contract worth billions of dollars to upgrade Hungary’s nuclear power plant and has criticized Western sanctions against Russia.Hungary also secretly granted residency permits to a Russian lawmaker, Vladimir Blotskiy, and his relatives, as well as family members of the head of the Russian Foreign Intelligence Service, Sergey Naryshkin, leading to accusations that Hungary has become a backdoor for Russians who otherwise would struggle to settle in the European Union.But only recently have analysts begun to question whether Mr. Orban was genuinely pivoting toward Moscow.“A few years ago I would have said, ‘Yes there is this eastern shift by the Hungarian government, but Hungary still respects its European and American partnerships,’” said Peter Kreko of Political Capital, a research group based in Budapest. “I think it’s less and less the case today.”Mr. Kreko said there was a paradox in Mr. Orban’s willingness to grant immunity to a Russian bank on Hungarian soil: Mr. Orban had been reluctant to renew a military treaty with the United States over concerns it interfered with Hungary’s sovereignty.“If that’s the case,” Mr. Kreko asked, “why are you giving these immunities to a Russian bank when there are these strong suspicions that it can be cover for Russian intelligence operations?”The Hungarian foreign minister, Peter Szijjarto, said the bank’s relocation “serves to further reinforce Budapest’s international financial positions.” The Finance Ministry said the move would provide “new opportunities for stakeholders from the Hungarian financial and economic sectors.”During the Cold War, the bank served as a financial center for the Communist trade bloc. It fell into disarray with the collapse of the Soviet Union, but Mr. Putin’s government resurrected it under a new management team. It counts Cuba, Bulgaria, Hungary and Vietnam among its members, who govern the bank on a one-country-one-vote system. Russia is the largest contributor to the bank, controlling 40 percent of its assets, records show.The bank’s chairman, Nikolay Kosov, comes from a prominent K.G.B. family, according to Western officials and a former Russian official. His father was the top Russian spy in Budapest during much of the 1970s, and his mother was hailed by the Russian news agency TASS as “one of the most extraordinary spies of the 20th century.”Western security officials believe that Mr. Kosov himself served in Russian intelligence, according to officials who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss intelligence matters. In a statement, the bank said he was “in no way linked to K.G.B.” His official biography says he served in various diplomatic postings during the Soviet era. The bank dismissed questions about his background as biased.“They have absolutely nothing to do and have no relation to the bank, its chairman and shareholders, and therefore need no comment,” the bank said in a statement. It said moving to Budapest was a natural step in its expansion. The bank noted that it had a diverse staff of multiple nationalities, and that more than half the assets had come from European countries.The immunity deal passed in Parliament recently is not unusual for a multilateral investment bank, but government officials and experts say the arrangement makes little sense.“It’s very difficult to say why this bank is coming to Hungary now,” said Julius Horvath, an economics professor at Central European University in Budapest. “It doesn’t appear to be based on economic considerations, rather political.”One European security official said the banking arrangement presented an opportunity for Mr. Putin to replenish his spy corps after the expulsion of scores of Russian officials from Europe and the United States. The expulsions were in retaliation for the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Agnes Vadai, an opposition lawmaker in the Hungarian Parliament, said: “Now, people can be sent into this bank with full immunity, and we don’t know anything about who they are.”

Supported byBooks of The TimesBy Parul SehgalWhen you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.“Oh, Mrs. Churchill, do come over. Someone has killed father.”With those words — called across a yard to a neighbor, on a summer day in 1892 — a woman named Lizzie Borden entered history as villain, victim, punch line and the media sensation of the Gilded Age.By the next morning, 1,500 gawkers had gathered outside the Borden house in Fall River, Mass. There was soon speculation that Jack the Ripper had come to America.Someone had killed father — and stepmother, too. Their bodies were discovered hacked to death; his, lying on the couch where he had been napping; hers, facedown in the spare room, bludgeoned almost twice as many times.“There was something about the locked-room mystery of the Borden murders that turned everyone into an amateur detective,” Cara Robertson writes in “The Trial of Lizzie Borden,” her enthralling new book, almost 20 years in the making. A former legal adviser to the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, she draws upon court transcripts, unpublished reports and Lizzie’s recently discovered letters to tell the story chronologically, from murder to verdict to the case’s long, strange afterlife.Robertson does not work for the prosecution or the defense. She marshals us to no conclusion. She only reopens the case and presents the evidence afresh, all those alluring details out of an Agatha Christie novel (the mystery of Lizzie’s burned dress, the curious disappearance of a hatchet handle). The reader is to serve as judge and jury.We begin in the singularly unhappy home ruled by Andrew Borden, a dour, tightfisted patriarch. His first wife died while the couple’s daughters, Emma and Lizzie, were young, and he married Abby Gray soon after. Andrew sought a mother for his children, and Abby, considered a spinster at 37, longed to leave her crowded home. It was a bad bargain for both. Little warmth existed between the couple. Andrew gave his wife the same paltry weekly allowance as his children, and never wore a wedding ring. Lizzie and her sister reacted to their stepmother as a usurper. By the time the girls were in their 30s, open hostility reigned, and the family maintained parallel lives. Meals were served in two sittings; the daughters refused to dine with the parents or even talk to Abby.These stories came tumbling out during the investigation. Robertson evokes the conditions that could birth and sustain such rancor — the narrow world of Emma and Lizzie Borden. They were too old for college, too old to marry and too highborn to work. Lizzie dabbled in church activities, but “there is little evidence she found these activities satisfying.” She spoke wistfully of freedom, but she was effectively immured.When Andrew began to suspect that one or both of his daughters had stolen valuables from him and Abby, he implemented an elaborate system of locking his room and protecting his possessions. The house began to feel like a cell. Robertson explains that Lizzie’s testimony of her activities on the day of the murder was regarded as so bizarre because the police and prosecution could not conceive of the lack of purpose in the lives of unmarried women of her class.Almost from the beginning, Lizzie, 32, was the only serious suspect. The Fall River police began their search by concentrating on local immigrants, but an outsider seemed improbable. Lizzie and the housemaid (who had an alibi) were both home; how would a stranger have escaped notice during the murders — and the time between them? Other sinister details emerged: Lizzie was reportedly seen trying to buy highly poisonous prussic acid the day before the killings.The case seized the town like a sickness. “Where to Look for Your Wife” ran a headline in the Fall River Daily Globe, over an item describing the “crowd of morbid females who are storming the door of the county court house.” Some locals called for the mystery to be solved lest the town go insane. The murders were especially disconcerting not just because they were so savage and intimate, but because Lizzie’s arrest “unsettled an ethnically and class-determined model of criminality,” Robertson writes. In the public imagination, the white, Christian daughter of a powerful scion was considered morally incapable of such crimes.Identity — Lizzie’s gender, in particular — became the bedrock for the cases made by both prosecution and defense. “The youngest daughter?” her lawyer petitioned. “The last one whose baby fingers have been loving entwined about her father’s head. Is there nothing in the ties of love and affection?” The prosecution, meanwhile, pointed to the nature and number of the blows, clearly committed by “an irresolute, imperfect feminine hand.” The conspicuously unnerved judge was forced to employ a thought experiment: “Suppose for a single moment that a man was standing there,” he said. “Would there be any question in the minds of men what should be done with such a man?”“Most interpretations tell us more about the preoccupations of its chroniclers than any essential truth about the mystery,” Robertson writes. In the 1950s, Lizzie Borden was resurrected as a feminist heroine. As one book from that period put it: “If today woman has come out of the kitchen, she is only following Lizzie, who came out of it with a bloody ax and helped start the rights-for-women bandwagon.” In the 1990s, another theory surfaced: that Lizzie murdered her parents after years of sexual abuse by her father. This theory relied on the fact that their bedrooms were connected by a door, the intensity of their relationship and the detail that instead of a wedding ring, Andrew wore a gold ring given to him by Lizzie.Every generation reframes the story in the light of its signal preoccupations. Robertson does, too, and openly. She refers to young adult novels and films that have offered more fully realized portraits of Lizzie, as well as documentaries like “The Staircase” and “Making a Murderer,” which relitigate old cases with fresh evidence. She also might have mentioned recent documentaries on Tonya Harding and Lorena Bobbitt— women whose stories are now being scrutinized with more subtlety, and with an eye to how sexism shaped their public narratives.Robertson is a scrupulous writer who stays tethered to the archives, but I often wished she had permitted herself to rove more freely, to speculate and imagine. The real riddle of Lizzie Borden isn’t whether she did it, or why, but can be found in the dark fascination she continues to exert. She remains as elusive in this admirable book as in life, as in the photographs that remain to us — a round-cheeked young person with a decisive mouth, not quite meeting our eye.“There seems to be little prospect that the mystery will be cleared up by the trial,” this newspaper commented prophetically in 1893. “The verdict, if there shall be a verdict, will make little difference.”An earlier version of this article misstated the title of a true-crime documentary. It is “Making a Murderer,” not “How to Make a Murderer.”Follow Parul Sehgal on Twitter: @parul_sehgal.The Trial of Lizzie Borden: A True StoryBy Cara RobertsonIllustrated. 375 pages. Simon &amp; Schuster. $28.

work FriendMaybe you’re a freelancer. Maybe you’re trying to get a freelancer’s attention. Either way, getting to inbox sanity is a slippery exercise.Enough with the reminders, already.CreditCreditEmily Simms for The New York TimesSupported byBy Katy LedererSend questions about the office, money, careers and work-life balance to workfriend@nytimes.com. Include your name and location, even if you want them withheld. Letters may be edited.As a freelance writer, I work from home. Many of my “work associates” are either (A) people who email me ideas or (B) people I email ideas to. Multiple times a day, I receive follow-up emails from members of category A. Sometimes they’re checking in on something they sent mere hours ago. I get enough of these emails that I cannot respond to every one, otherwise my entire workday would be spent writing missives like “Sorry, not interested!” Of course, I find myself on the other end of this hellish pitch cycle when I send follow-up emails to members of category B, usually no sooner than three days after sending my last note.All of which poses the question: What is a reasonable amount of time to wait before sending a follow-up email?— S.M., Los AngelesI started off writing a long thing about how freelancers are like a pile of worms trapped in a Mason jar. They writhe around one another, unable to escape, because whenever one tries to climb up the disgusting, slippery wall, the others can’t help wriggling and pulling the almost-free one back into the heaving, moistened pile. But I stopped writing this because there is actually a simple answer to your question.First, get a second email account. Give this new address to anyone who pitches you.Second, write an out-of-office message: “Hello there. Thank you for your query. I do my best to respond to every pitch, but it can take me up to three days to do so. If your message is time-sensitive, please write ‘time-sensitive’ in the subject line and re-send. If you have not heard from me within three days, you can assume that your pitch is not a fit for me right now.”When it comes to your own pitches: three days seems a good interval to me, though you should certainly write “time-sensitive” in the subject line if three days will be too long to wait. Make sure it’s not a holiday or the editor hasn’t been fired since you first pitched.As for escaping from the writhing Mason jar to actually get something of substance accomplished: During the day, go to a cafe and write from there. Don’t ask for the internet password. (When you do, you’re just begging for your computer to be hacked.) Get more work done and become rich and powerful.I like the people at work, the hours aren’t bad, the office is pretty nice, etc. But I hate my job and really resent going to work every day. My real passion is playwriting, and I can’t help but think that if I didn’t have this job, I’d get a lot more writing done. I feel embarrassed when I tell people what it is I do for a living and worry that they’ll think less of me and not “get” me. I know that’s stupid, but it’s wearing on my self-esteem.How do you know when it’s time to quit your day job? Or: How do you keep up your day job and keep your head up at the same time?— P.B., San FranciscoYour worries are not stupid. Many people that you know and meet will think less of you, at least if you live in an absurdly competitive city like San Francisco. Any excuse to feel even a little bit better than someone else, right?Because who knows what’s going on with them. Maybe they have sacrificed everything — even adequate dental care — to follow their dreams, and now their molars are falling out of their mouth and they can hardly eat yogurt, let alone subsist on all the writing they produce on a daily basis.Or maybe they have a huge trust fund that they don’t tell anyone about, and they live in a hovel even though they could afford a mansion, and every week they complain to their expensive therapist about feeling like a fraud.Maybe they have a professional partner who financially supports their work, and they write and they write, and they publish and publish, but it all sucks.Maybe one day they meet you at a party. You say you have a day job, but instead of stating proudly that you work in a fine office with kind colleagues that you actually like, you act like an impostor. After the party, they go home and gossip to friends that you’re a sellout and a fool. Their friends outwardly agree with them, even though they know inside your writing’s actually really good, day job or not.In fact, everybody knows inside your writing’s actually really good, but no one will ever admit this to themselves, let alone each other, because this might jeopardize whatever sort of unstable hierarchy they have established in the gloomy bars and insular theaters that they frequent as a group in their ridiculous amounts of spare time.Trust me, these people who despise you and talk about you behind your back would like nothing more than for you to actually stop writing. It would legitimize their choices and it would also cull the field by one more body, which is more than none. But don’t give them what they want, O.K.? Just keep writing and, maybe more important, just keep putting yourself out there.Bitter writing can be good. Angry writing can be really good. And writing about soul-crushing day jobs has produced some genuine theatrical masterpieces.Should you follow your interviewer on Twitter after a (media) job interview? Or is that weird?— A., BostonNo, you should not. But it wouldn’t be that weird if you did, either.Think upside and downside: The upside if you follow is … what? You read this person’s random hot take on whatever new pickle Jeff Bezos has gotten himself into? The downside is: There is a small but nonzero chance they think you’re creepy or annoying. If you think the interview went well, just leave it at that. Always leave them wanting more.Katy Lederer is the author of three books of poems and a memoir. Write to her at workfriend@nytimes.com.

Supported byBy Paul Mozur and Austin RamzyHONG KONG — The Chinese electronics giant Huawei sued the United States government on Wednesday, arguing that it had been unfairly and incorrectly banned as a security threat.The lawsuit will force the government to make its case against the company more public, but it could also leave Huawei vulnerable to deeper scrutiny of its business practices and relationship with the Chinese government.The United States has argued that Huawei poses a risk because its equipment could be used by the Chinese authorities to spy on communications and disrupt telecommunications networks. That position has led major wireless carriers in the United States to avoid Huawei’s equipment.Huawei denies the allegations and says the lawsuit is meant to prove it does not engage in such practices. The company’s plans to file the lawsuit were first reported on Monday by The New York Times.“The U.S. Congress has repeatedly failed to produce any evidence to support its restrictions on Huawei products,” Guo Ping, Huawei’s rotating chairman, said in a statement announcing the filing of the lawsuit. “We are compelled to take this legal action as a proper and last resort.”The lawsuit, which was filed in a United States District Court in Plano, Tex., where Huawei has its American headquarters, argues that part of the 2019 National Defense Authorization Act is unconstitutional because it singles out Huawei. The act bans government agencies from contracting with Huawei or companies that use the company’s equipment.Huawei, China’s biggest maker of telecommunications equipment, has been under pressure for months by the United States authorities. Now, it’s striking back. The suit is part of a markedly aggressive legal and public relations offensive that Huawei has recently mounted to push back against spying accusations.During a news briefing broadcast on an official Huawei feed on Twitter, Mr. Guo pulled no punches.“The U.S. government has long branded Huawei as a threat, it has hacked our service and stolen our emails and source code,” he said, referring to National Security Agency documents provided by the former contractor Edward J. Snowden that showed the agency had pried its way into Huawei’s systems.“Still, the U.S. government is sparing no effort to smear the company and mislead the public about Huawei,” he added. The briefing, streamed on Twitter — an American internet platform blocked in China — reached more than two million people.In December, Meng Wanzhou, the daughter of Huawei’s founder and the chief financial officer of the company, was detained in Canada at the behest of the United States, which is seeking to extradite her.Her father, Ren Zhengfei, the company’s founder, has since rejected the claims against his daughter and said that he would wait to see if President Trump would intervene in the case. Ms. Meng has been in court this week in Vancouver, British Columbia, as part of an extradition hearing.In the meantime, Huawei has battled against many of its customers and nations that have said they would pull back from buying its products. China has also retaliated against Canada by detaining several Canadian citizens. This week, Canadian officials also complained that China had begun to suspend the import of canola from the country.Lu Kang, the spokesman for China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs, said on Thursday that the Chinese decision was based on the discovery of pests in Canadian canola.China has a long history of interrupting trade with other countries in the middle of diplomatic spats. In September 2010, China halted the export of rare earth metals to Japan for two months during a dispute over the sovereignty of a cluster of tiny islands between Japan and Taiwan. Weeks later, China suspended trade talks with Norway and then halted the import of Norwegian salmon after the Nobel Peace Prize was awarded to a Chinese dissident by a Norwegian committee.Huawei’s lawsuit argues that by singling out the company, Congress has violated constitutional principles on the separation of powers and also the bill of attainder clause, which prohibits legislation that singles out a person or entity for punishment without trial.“The actual and intended effect of these prohibitions is to bar Huawei from significant segments of the U.S. market for telecommunications equipment and services, thereby inflicting immediate and ongoing economic, competitive, and reputational harms on Huawei,” the company’s lawyers wrote in the suit.They added that the prohibitions have been carried out without “a fair hearing or the opportunity to rebut the allegations against it, and without opportunity for escape.”The Russian cybersecurity firm Kaspersky Lab filed, and ultimately lost, a similar legal challenge two years ago. After the Department of Homeland Security directed federal agencies to ban Kaspersky products from their systems, Congress codified the directive into a law.Kaspersky filed two lawsuits arguing it had been singled out for punishment without a trial. A judge ultimately dismissed the lawsuits, pointing out they came from a legitimate desire to protect American networks.The Justice Department filed criminal charges against Huawei in January, but those cases focus on the company’s connections to evading American sanctions on Iran and its theft of intellectual property. Neither relates to the core question faced by governments around the world about whether using Huawei’s equipment in new 5G networks causes security concerns.The new lawsuit seeks to focus on that question, and to push the United States government to make its case. While Huawei is unlikely to reverse American opposition to the company, it may hope to win over government officials in other countries, including some in Europe, who will probably be following the American lawsuit closely.Debate about the security of Huawei’s systems has come at a critical moment, with countries around the world preparing to spend hundreds of billions of dollars on expanding cellular networks to next generation 5G technology.The new networks will have faster speeds, but also be used to connect a bewildering number of new sensors and data-collection systems alongside smartphones. That would make vulnerabilities in the networks potentially more serious than with the cellular networks of the past.Mr. Lu, the Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman, expressed support for Huawei’s legal action.“We believe that it is perfectly justified and fully understandable for companies to safeguard their legitimate rights and interests through legal means,” he said.Many Chinese expressed support on social media for Huawei’s legal stand against the United States. Some others noted with sarcasm the difficulties of similar legal recourse for companies or individuals within China’s system.“So you can sue a government?” wrote one user on Weibo, the Chinese social media service. “Interesting. All of a sudden I’m thinking, actually I don’t dare think about it.”.Keith Bradsher contributed reporting from Shanghai. Zoe Mou contributed research from Beijing, and Qiqing Lin from Shanghai.

Supported byBy Cade Metz and Craig S. SmithLast year, the Food and Drug Administration approved a device that can capture an image of your retina and automatically detect signs of diabetic blindness.This new breed of artificial intelligence technology is rapidly spreading across the medical field, as scientists develop systems that can identify signs of illness and disease in a wide variety of images, from X-rays of the lungs to C.A.T. scans of the brain. These systems promise to help doctors evaluate patients more efficiently, and less expensively, than in the past.Similar forms of artificial intelligence are likely to move beyond hospitals into the computer systems used by health care regulators, billing companies and insurance providers. Just as A.I. will help doctors check your eyes, lungs and other organs, it will help insurance providers determine reimbursement payments and policy fees.Ideally, such systems would improve the efficiency of the health care system. But they may carry unintended consequences, a group of researchers at Harvard and M.I.T. warns.In a paper published on Thursday in the journal Science, the researchers raise the prospect of “adversarial attacks” — manipulations that can change the behavior of A.I. systems using tiny pieces of digital data. By changing a few pixels on a lung scan, for instance, someone could fool an A.I. system into seeing an illness that is not really there, or not seeing one that is.[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]Software developers and regulators must consider such scenarios, as they build and evaluate A.I. technologies in the years to come, the authors argue. The concern is less that hackers might cause patients to be misdiagnosed, although that potential exists. More likely is that doctors, hospitals and other organizations could manipulate the A.I. in billing or insurance software in an effort to maximize the money coming their way.Samuel Finlayson, a researcher at Harvard Medical School and M.I.T. and one of the authors of the paper, warned that because so much money changes hands across the health care industry, stakeholders are already bilking the system by subtly changing billing codes and other data in computer systems that track health care visits. A.I. could exacerbate the problem.“The inherent ambiguity in medical information, coupled with often-competing financial incentives, allows for high-stakes decisions to swing on very subtle bits of information,” he said.The new paper adds to a growing sense of concern about the possibility of such attacks, which could be aimed at everything from face recognition services and driverless cars to iris scanners and fingerprint readers.An adversarial attack exploits a fundamental aspect of the way many A.I. systems are designed and built. Increasingly, A.I. is driven by neural networks, complex mathematical systems that learn tasks largely on their own by analyzing vast amounts of data.By analyzing thousands of eye scans, for instance, a neural network can learn to detect signs of diabetic blindness. This “machine learning” happens on such an enormous scale — human behavior is defined by countless disparate pieces of data — that it can produce unexpected behavior of its own.In 2016, a team at Carnegie Mellon used patterns printed on eyeglass frames to fool face-recognition systems into thinking the wearers were celebrities. When the researchers wore the frames, the systems mistook them for famous people, including Milla Jovovich and John Malkovich.A group of Chinese researchers pulled a similar trick by projecting infrared light from the underside of a hat brim onto the face of whoever wore the hat. The light was invisible to the wearer, but it could trick a face-recognition system into thinking the wearer was, say, the musician Moby, who is Caucasian, rather than an Asian scientist.Researchers have also warned that adversarial attacks could fool self-driving cars into seeing things that are not there. By making small changes to street signs, they have duped cars into detecting a yield sign instead of a stop sign.Late last year, a team at N.Y.U.’s Tandon School of Engineering created virtual fingerprints capable of fooling fingerprint readers 22 percent of the time. In other words, 22 percent of all phones or PCs that used such readers potentially could be unlocked.The implications are profound, given the increasing prevalence of biometric security devices and other A.I. systems. India has implemented the world’s largest fingerprint-based identity system, to distribute government stipends and services. Banks are introducing face-recognition access to A.T.M.s. Companies such as Waymo, which is owned by the same parent company as Google, are testing self-driving cars on public roads.Now, Mr. Finlayson and his colleagues have raised the same alarm in the medical field: As regulators, insurance providers and billing companies begin using A.I. in their software systems, businesses can learn to game the underlying algorithms.If an insurance company uses A.I. to evaluate medical scans, for instance, a hospital could manipulate scans in an effort to boost payouts. If regulators build A.I. systems to evaluate new technology, device makers could alter images and other data in an effort to trick the system into granting regulatory approval.In their paper, the researchers demonstrated that, by changing a small number of pixels in an image of a benign skin lesion, a diagnostic A.I system could be tricked into identifying the lesion as malignant. Simply rotating the image could also have the same effect, they found.Small changes to written descriptions of a patient’s condition also could alter an A.I. diagnosis: “Alcohol abuse” could produce a different diagnosis than “alcohol dependence,” and “lumbago” could produce a different diagnosis than “back pain."In turn, changing such diagnoses one way or another could readily benefit the insurers and health care agencies that ultimately profit from them. Once A.I. is deeply rooted in the health care system, the researchers argue, business will gradually adopt behavior that brings in the most money.The end result could harm patients, Mr. Finlayson said. Changes that doctors make to medical scans or other patient data in an effort to satisfy the A.I. used by insurance companies could end up on a patient’s permanent record and affect decisions down the road.Already doctors, hospitals and other organizations sometimes manipulate the software systems that control the billions of dollars moving across the industry. Doctors, for instance, have subtly changed billing codes — for instance, describing a simple X-ray as a more complicated scan — in an effort to boost payouts.Hamsa Bastani, an assistant professor at the Wharton Business School at the University of Pennsylvania, who has studied the manipulation of health care systems, believes it is a significant problem. “Some of the behavior is unintentional, but not all of it,” she said.As a specialist in machine-learning systems, she questioned whether the introduction of A.I. will make the problem worse. Carrying out an adversarial attack in the real world is difficult, and it is still unclear whether regulators and insurance companies will adopt the kind of machine-learning algorithms that are vulnerable to such attacks.But, she added, it’s worth keeping an eye on. “There are always unintended consequences, particularly in health care,” she said.

Supported byOn Politics With Lisa LererBy Lisa LererHi. Welcome to On Politics, your guide to the day in national politics. I’m Lisa Lerer, your host.[Get On Politics delivered to your inbox.]The Mississippi Delta isn’t a typical stop on the Democratic presidential primary circuit. But there was Senator Elizabeth Warren, on a bright Monday morning, winding her way through a neighborhood of worn-down shotgun houses in Cleveland, Miss.“It won’t leave my mind and it won’t leave my heart,” she told Willie Simmons, a state senator who was giving Ms. Warren a tour, as we walked by burned-out homes, trash-filled yards and empty lots.The last time a major presidential candidate stopped in Cleveland was 1967, when Robert F. Kennedy came as part of his national poverty tour, Mr. Simmons said, explaining how much he appreciated the opportunity to show a political star the need in his community.But he wasn’t sure Ms. Warren had won his vote. “I’m going to wait for a minute,” he said. “We have a lot of good candidates, and I want to pay some attention to them, see where they are.”Ms. Warren isn’t leading the polls. She’s not dominating the political conversation. And she’s certainly not collecting the most money.But what’s clear from spending some time with her in the Deep South is that, for better or worse, Ms. Warren and her team are running the campaign that they believe the country needs.While former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., who’s expected to enter the race next month, has said hedge fund managers are not “necessarily bad,” Ms. Warren seems to revel in calling out the ultra wealthy, pharmaceutical companies, Wall Street banks and payday lenders.“I am tired of freeloading billionaires,” she told several hundred people in Memphis on Sunday evening. “I just want them to pay their full share.”While Senator Kamala Harris courts wealthy donors in California and in Boston, Ms. Warren has sworn off the big-dollar fund-raising events that typically eat up a candidate’s schedule.And while former Representative Beto O’Rourke of Texas offers a gauzy vision in early primary states, Ms. Warren is fiercely focused on policy:• She was the first presidential candidate to call for an annual wealth tax on fortunes greater than $50 million.• She has proposed a universal child-care and pre-K program.• She used an appearance in Long Island City, the New York neighborhood that won — and then lost — Amazon’s new corporate headquarters, to promote her plan to break up big tech companies.The trip to the Deep South was intended to promote her most recent proposal — a housing plan that she promised activists in Greenville, Miss., would be “right near the top” of the priority list after Democrats win the White House in 2020.[At a town hall event televised on CNN Monday night, Ms. Warren called for ending the Electoral College.]It’s the kind of unconventional, ideas-first approach that liberal Democrats dream about when they picture a progressive presidential campaign.But in a primary field crowded with political celebrities, reality can be a killer.Ms. Harris raised $1.5 million over her first 24 hours as a candidate. Senator Bernie Sanders raised $5.9 million. Mr. O’Rourke announced this morning that he’s raised $6.1 million.Ms. Warren’s first-day haul? Almost $300,000.Members of her team say they have enough money to compete in the early states. They say they expected a slower spring and believe Ms. Warren, a strong debater with serious policy chops, could regain steam once the monthly primary debates begin in June.As for Mr. O’Rourke’s first-day haul, Ms. Warren had this to say: “Good for Beto. I believe we have to tell the American people what our vision is.”She might be right. She might not be. The Iowa caucuses are nearly a year away, so the one thing she definitely has is time.Want to read more about Ms. Warren? My colleague David Leonhardt had an interesting take in the opinion pages over the weekend on how she wants to remake capitalism.____________________Drop us a line!We want to hear from our readers. Have a question? We’ll try to answer it. Have a comment? We’re all ears. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.____________________We mentioned four candidates’ first-day fund-raising totals above. Now, those numbers don’t tell us who’s going to win, or even who has the most money on hand right now. But they do offer a way to measure a candidate’s immediate appeal, and they give an indication of the relative strength of their donor rolls.None of the other 10 candidates in the race have announced their first-day totals. But some have offered other hints of their fund-raising success so far:• Senator Amy Klobuchar’s campaign said it raised $1 million in its first 48 hours.• John Hickenlooper, the former governor of Colorado, said he reached $1 million within 48 hours.• Jay Inslee, the governor of Washington, brought in $1 million in under three days.• Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Ind., announced that he raised more than $600,000 in the 24 hours after his televised town hall event on CNN.• Andrew Yang, a former tech executive, said last week that he had raised $350,000 in March, surpassing the threshold of 65,000 donors required to participate in the first Democratic debate.[Sign up here to get On Politics in your inbox.]____________________• Experts say President Trump’s plan to fight AIDS is sound. But following through will be far more expensive than the proposal says, and will require courageous leadership from every statehouse and city hall in the nation.• A historic snowy winter is turning into record spring flooding across a wide area in the middle of the United States. The governors of Nebraska, South Dakota and Wisconsin have declared emergencies, and Iowa’s governor has issued a disaster proclamation.• The band, the skateboard — Beto O’Rourke’s punk bona fides are well known at this point. But Reuters has uncovered a new one: As a teenager, he belonged to the Cult of the Dead Cow, America’s oldest group of computer hackers.____________________Senator Cory Booker has been making the same joke about coffee since 2009: a Twitter investigation._____________________Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox.Thanks for reading. Politics is more than what goes on inside the White House. On Politics brings you the people, issues and ideas reshaping our world.Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.

Supported byDAILY CROSSWORD COLUMNAdam Fromm’s puzzle does a number on us.By Caitlin LovingerSUNDAY PUZZLE — On the one hand, the punny title for this breezy puzzle is a natural; on the other hand, it made me laugh at myself a little. First I sort of bristled, considering how the term “hysteria” targets my gender, and how aware we are becoming of so many women’s unsung contributions to math and computer programming, among other subjects. But it also made me think of that “Teen Talk” Barbie that famously said “math class is hard!”  back in the ’90s, and how that inspired the Barbie Liberation Organization. Besides, the theme examples from Adam Fromm today are so amusing and tight that I have thrown away my math baggage. In an era when I look to the calculator on my phone to come up with an 18 percent tip on a $50 lunch tab, I consider my personal 2019 mathematics brush-up challenge finito, simply by solving this grid.I thought there was a lot of verve and toughness in the filler clues today. A handful of names tripped me up, like SIRI (which made me feel old! I wrote in “Jude”), NIKI, AIDAN, GIOTTO and ROSITA, who did not make her appearance on “Sesame Street” until 1991. I really loved the inclusion of SHMOO and SHOOP, and I thought that ANNI was a very sly little hat tip to the whole puzzle.8A: It’s possible that the mention of this parkway, the TACONIC, evokes the same frisson of dread that math does among some of us — it is an early motorway, started in the 1920s, that has earned a reputation for being challenging to drive. 46A: I had “seller” here till the near end, a perfectly logical choice, but letters two and three would not jibe with their crosses — a hairstyle and another “seller,” actually, this one of “Famous Bowls” (football competitions? kitchenware?). A fishmonger is also a SCALER — that hairstyle is a FADE (a popular choice for many of you, I’m sure) and that “Bowl” is KFC fried chicken (in a bowl, with well-known mashed potatoes, notorious corn, celebrity cheese and some paparazzi gravy on top). 103A: Usually this scientist is clued as a winner of the Nobel Prize, or more specifically a “conditioned reflex researcher,” or my favorite from 1973, “Russian dog man.” If you are specifically referring to dog training, then I can do what PAVLOV did just by bringing home, I don’t know, a Famous Bowl every day at 3 p.m. for a week or two. My dogs found a piece of moldy cheese under a bush in my neighborhood almost two years ago and they still leave trails of drool when we walk down that street. I know, that’s a little different, but I still find it poignant that they continue to hope for more cheese. 43D: This piece of a motor is pretty recognizable if you look at one of those blown-out parts images, but I didn’t think of the STATOR as unmoving (and the name itself didn’t come to mind, either). 51D: Coincidentally, this exact route was on my mind this week, because at some point I was alerted to this recent photo essay, a very moody look at “The LONELIEST Road in America.” I don’t often see this part of the United States in person, but the allure of wide-open spaces is tangible when you are packed jowl to jowl on a subway car, inching through a tunnel. Or gripping your steering wheel grimly on the Taconic while S.U.V.s hurtle past you, come to think of it.Sometimes the Sunday theme is a big secret you need to figure out before you get anywhere, like the proverbial duck the size of a horse. Sometimes it is a bunch of little duckling-size horses that you have to corral one by one, like today’s puzzle. There are seven across clues, at 22, 39, 47, 67, 86, 95 and 116, that each present a cryptic equation. Our job is to solve them, and we get no credit for showing our work.They all rely on various mathematical operations, I guess, although 95A is really more a notation thing, I guess, if that’s what you would call a decimal. Put your pun hat on for the BB in “3.BB” and you’ll get it: THREE (3) POINT (.) SHOT (BB, as in BB gun).86A is algebraic, with a variable divisor — X — and four $ signs, making a CASH DIVIDEND (how much we can’t say, but it’s money).39A is the purest form of a balanced equation — “x — y = x — y.” True — both sides are the SAME DIFFERENCE.My favorite, which had no actual numbers, was one of the occasional puzzle tricks that I remember thinking of once in the past, probably at one of those family meetings where everyone somberly discusses what to do when the piano falls through the ceiling and we need to know how to settle all the unforeseen debts (the piano was supposed to be full of rare coins, but they were worthless, all lead slugs). It is at 116A, and if you recognize “Esq.” as the lawyerly suffix then you can see what this is POWER OF ATTORNEY — “X” raised to the power of “Esq.” — an exponential quantity of lawyers.As long as you went to junior high school and know your West Coast newspapers and your satanic numerology, you will ace the rest of this test. I wish I understood how my brain works. A decade ago I saw a photoshop contest on the theme of “scary road signs,” whose entries included one enforcing a speed limit of the square root of 666. I haven’t the foggiest idea why my brain held onto that image, or why it dragged the memory out kicking and screaming 10 years later just for the sake of generating a “root of all evil” pun. Once it did, though, and because every dang thing becomes a theme in this hobby, there was no way I wasn’t going to run with it. (It wasn’t until writing this blurb that I went looking for the original image, only to discover that it actually showed the square root of 677. I give up, brain.)This represents my second attempt at the concept after the first was rejected by Will, who liked the theme but not the execution; some but not all of the theme entries in that original go-round relied on homophones, like SINE OF THE TIMES (sin[AxB]) and HALF A GOOD DAY (. 5 x 12/25), which proved inconsistent. The do-over is much tighter over all with a minimum of wince-and-hide-my-eyes fill, which isn’t to say that I wouldn’t love to gut the SW corner another six times. The fill went relatively quickly, although the nipping and tucking portion of the process dragged on for quite a while. You’d think I’d have learned by now to hack away at the center first, where everything crashes into everything else Michael Bay-style, but old habits die awfully hard. And yes, I was a math major before switching to English, which is as good an explanation not only for this puzzle but also for why I do this in the first place. Such is life.Subscribers can take a peek at the answer key. Trying to get back to the puzzle page? Right here. What did you think?

Supported byBy Nicholas FandosWASHINGTON — The House Intelligence Committee’s first hearing since Robert S. Mueller III completed his report had barely begun when the panel’s Republicans moved en masse to demand the resignation of the committee’s chairman.It went downhill from there.The acrimony on display Thursday as the intelligence committee tried to resume its work on Russia’s intervention in the 2016 presidential election laid bare the bitter divide that persists in Congress even after Mr. Mueller, the special counsel, completed his 22-month investigation of the subject. The Republican demand and the barbed response of the committee’s chairman, Representative Adam B. Schiff, echoed well outside the wood-paneled House hearing room.Representative Kevin McCarthy, the House Republican leader, spent much of his weekly news conference comparing Mr. Schiff, a fellow Californian, to Senator Joseph R. McCarthy, who fueled fears in the 1950s that Communist spies had infiltrated the American government. Representative Michael R. Turner, Republican of Ohio, played the same card in the hearing room, fuming that Mr. Schiff would not accept Attorney General William P. Barr’s word that Mr. Mueller had not found the Trump campaign to have taken part in a conspiracy to undermine the election.“With McCarthyism,” a senator was “chasing after Russian Communists,” Mr. Turner, an Intelligence Committee member, said. “Now we have Schiff chasing after Russian collusion.”Undaunted, Mr. Schiff made clear he was not about to step down, nor was he about to absolve President Trump or his campaign from nefarious conduct with Moscow — especially without seeing Mr. Mueller’s report first. The Justice Department revealed on Thursday that the report came in at more than 300 pages, raising more questions about what information was behind the four-page summary released by Mr. Barr.Mr. Schiff had many questions of his own.“You might think that it’s O.K. that the president’s son-in-law sought to establish a secret back channel of communications with the Russians through a Russian diplomatic facility. I don’t think that’s O.K. You might think it’s O.K. that an associate of the president made direct contact with the G.R.U. through Guccifer 2.0 and WikiLeaks; that is considered a hostile intelligence agency,” Mr. Schiff said, referring to Russian military intelligence and a Russian intelligence hacker.He continued: “You might think that it’s O.K. that the national security-designate secretly conferred with the Russian ambassador about undermining U.S. sanctions. And you might think it’s O.K. he lied about it to the F.B.I. You might say that’s all O.K. You might say that’s just what you need to do to win. But I don’t think it’s O.K. I think it’s immoral. I think it’s unethical. I think it’s unpatriotic. And yes, I think it’s corrupt.”Democrats who now control the House say that they will accept Mr. Mueller’s findings, but as Mr. Schiff’s monologue indicated they are increasingly determined not to let go of what they see as a deeply troubling pattern of wrongdoing by Mr. Trump, his businesses and his administration.That has in turn enraged Republicans, who have happily embraced what they call Mr. Mueller’s absolution of Mr. Trump. They say Democrats will stop at nothing to ruin his presidency, and bristle at Democrats accusing them of turning a blind eye to the Russian threat. And at the center of their wrath is Mr. Schiff, whose doughy-faced demeanor hardly evokes an attack dog.“The findings of the special counsel conclusively refute your past and present assertions and have exposed you as having abused your position to knowingly promote false information, having damaged the integrity of this committee, and undermined faith in U.S. government institutions,” Representative K. Michael Conaway, Republican of Texas, said to Mr. Schiff.Reading from a letter signed by every Republican member of the committee, Mr. Conaway added, “Your actions both past and present are incompatible with your duties as chairman of this committee.”Mr. Trump intervened as well, accusing Mr. Schiff of “knowingly and unlawfully lying and leaking.” He “should be forced to resign from Congress!” the president wrote on Twitter.Mr. Schiff, clearly prepared for the ambush, argued that there was a difference between prosecutors proving a criminal conspiracy and the committee investigating evidence of foreign compromise. The committee’s own investigative work would go on, he signaled, though outside the hearing room he has indicated that work may well need to shift course once Mr. Mueller’s findings are fully understood.Democrats backed him. “History will clarify what has happened,” said Representative Jim Himes, Democrat of Connecticut.Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California praised Mr. Schiff as “calm, professional, patriotic,” and said his work as the chairman of the committee has been “in stark contrast to the irresponsible and almost criminal behavior of the previous chair of the committee,” Representative Devin Nunes, Republican of California.“What is the president afraid of — that he would go after a chairman of the committee?” she said. “I think they’re just scaredy-cats. They just don’t know what to do.”The party gave Mr. Schiff a more formal nod of confidence this week as well. On Wednesday, the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, House Democrats’ campaign arm, announced that Mr. Schiff would serve as a key fund-raiser for the caucus’s most vulnerable members to help put together a firewall to project the House majority.Out of the glare of the television cameras, Democrats are somewhat more circumspect.“In the heat of the political moment just as the Republicans wanted to try to convict Hillary Clinton in the public sphere, Democrats probably contributed to the expectations that the outcome would be worse for the president than it was,” Mr. Himes said in an interview a day ahead of the hearing.Notably sitting out the fight was Mr. Nunes, whom Democrats have accused of many of the same abuses that Republicans accused Mr. Schiff of on Thursday and whose resignation they asked for last year. Mr. Nunes’s sustained work last term to scrutinize the origins of the Russia investigation and accuse federal law enforcement officials of acting out of anti-Trump political bias sent convulsions through what in quieter times is one of Congress’s more bipartisan bodies.“We should not be used as a platform to spread false information and bizarre conspiracies,” Mr. Nunes said on Thursday in brief remarks before deferring to Mr. Conaway.Thursday’s showdown came, ironically enough, during a hearing with four subject experts on “Putin’s Playbook: The Kremlin’s Use of Oligarchs, Money and Intelligence in 2016 and Beyond.” Down the line, the witnesses warned that Vladimir V. Putin’s Russia would only grow bolder in its efforts to destabilize western democracies, including the United States.“The bad news is that there is a new ideological fight between Putinism and the West, and it has only just begun,” said Michael McFaul, an ambassador to Moscow under former President Barack Obama. “In my estimation, we as a country are underestimating it.”The whole episode offered a sharp contrast to the Senate Intelligence Committee, which with a yawning pace and no-leaks team has continued apace with its own Russia investigation. The committee’s chairman, Senator Richard M. Burr of North Carolina, said this week that he aimed to finish witness interviews in the coming weeks and issue the last in a series of reports on the panel’s findings in the coming months.On Thursday, as Democrats and Republicans in the House traded recriminations, the Senate panel quietly called back for another interview with Jared Kushner, Mr. Trump’s son-in-law and senior adviser.Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article referred incorrectly to a congressman from Texas. He is K. Michael Conaway, not Michael K. Conaway. The error was repeated in a photo caption.Sheryl Gay Stolberg and Catie Edmondson contributed reporting.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.

Supported byBitsBy Jamie CondliffeEach week, technology reporters and columnists from The New York Times review the week’s news, offering analysis and maybe a joke or two about the most important developments in the tech industry. Want this newsletter in your inbox? Sign up here.Hi. I’m Jamie Condliffe; greetings from London. Here’s a look at the week’s tech news.You can’t have missed it: Facebook plans to shift people toward private messaging and away from the public broadcasting on which its business was built. Think encrypted communications among smaller groups of people, and ephemeral messages that can be deleted. In theory, that change could help the company overcome some of the problems it has faced.But Facebook has promised privacy features before that have never appeared — something skeptics were quick to point out after the plan was revealed on Thursday.“I understand that many people don’t think Facebook can or would even want to build this kind of privacy-focused platform,” Mark Zuckerberg, the company’s chief executive, wrote in a 3,200-word manifesto describing the shift.If we are to assume he means it, there’s still a huge problem: He lacks a business model.A shift to a private Facebook would crimp its current revenue streams. Most of its profits come from targeted ads enabled by the open sharing of content. In the encrypted future that Mr. Zuckerberg imagines, that will be hard. The company would also effectively rule out expansion into big potential markets like Russia and China, because it won’t run servers in countries with authoritarian governments.So how can it make money? Mr. Zuckerberg mentions commerce and payments, which fits with reports that Facebook is building a cryptocurrency. But that’s all he says, really.Mr. Zuckerberg seems O.K. with the lack of a plan. “The basic way that we’ve approached things is first to focus on building the consumer service that people really want,” he said to Wired. “That will be the foundation. If we do that well, the business will be fine.”Of course, a trick for monetizing private messaging may be hidden in his back pocket. If it isn’t, his critics’ skepticism may be proved right.Earlier in the week, Representative David Cicilline, the Rhode Island Democrat who leads the House antitrust subcommittee, proposed an idea to curb Big Tech’s dominance.During the Great Depression, the Glass-Steagall Act forced banks to separate commercial and investment banking operations. Mr. Cicilline told the Financial Times that something similar could apply to tech.“It’s an interesting idea whether there would be a way to think about separating what platforms do versus people who are selling products and information,” he said.Sadly, this feels like a nonstarter. Splitting the operations of banks was relatively straightforward; the data sales and platform components of companies like Google and Facebook are (whatever Mr. Zuckerberg says) deeply intertwined.Still, it’s probably one of many options. “There aren’t easy answers” to Big Tech antitrust questions, Mr. Cicilline said to Bloomberg Opinion in January. “We’re not going to approach this, like, ‘Here’s my solution.’”He has the wind at his back. Congressional hearings with Facebook and others last year revealed that lawmakers in both parties have antitrust concerns about tech companies. And the Federal Trade Commission recently announced a task force of 17 lawyers dedicated to “monitoring competition in U.S. technology markets.” The commission’s director of competition, Bruce Hoffman, said some companies could be forced to “spin off” previous acquisitions.How far these efforts will go — and how quickly — remains unclear. It may be difficult to prove violation of federal antitrust law until the laws are updated to better apply to technology companies. And splitting a company like Facebook or Google would require costly, lengthy legal battles that the government may yet balk at.Arizona prosecutors said Tuesday that they wouldn’t charge Uber with a crime after one of its autonomous cars hit and killed a pedestrian last year. Instead, they said investigators should look into what the safety driver “would or should have seen that night.”One interesting point about the news was raised by Frank Douma, a researcher at the University of Minnesota’s Center for Transportation Studies:“It’s a very conventional way of thinking to say we can expect and we should expect people to sit and monitor technology that is otherwise doing all the decision-making.”The “handoff problem” — that humans are too easily distracted to safely retake control of an autonomous vehicle in an emergency — is well documented. The Uber accident provided a first glimpse of how the law would deal with that issue. It suggests that, for now, the onus remains on the “driver.”The Chinese telecom giant Huawei sued the United States government on Wednesday over a ban that prevents government agencies from using the company’s products because they may violate national security. Days earlier, Meng Wanzhou, the company’s chief financial officer, sued the Canadian authorities for arresting her.Huawei is aggrieved by the Trump administration’s hardware ban and its lobbying of other governments to shun the company’s products when building 5G wireless data networks. The lawsuits are just one response: A defensive advertising campaign and outspoken interviews were already in play.Those more conventional lobbying approaches may have been working: Countries like Britain and Germany, which have considered the White House’s pleas, have wavered and may ultimately use Huawei hardware.But the lawsuits make Huawei look rash and aggressive. Is that the kind of company a government wants to help build critical infrastructure?The National Security Agency stopped its controversial phone spying. The system, which analyzed logs of Americans’ domestic calls and texts and was introduced to surveil conspirators in Al Qaeda, has been scrapped.Google said it was paying male workers too little. It gave $9.7 million in additional compensation to level things up for 10,677 employees, about 69 percent of them men. But the survey that led to the raises did not address a critical question: Are women hired at a pay grade below their qualifications?Net neutrality is back in Washington. Congressional Democrats announced bills that seek to reinstate net neutrality rules. Whether the bills can pass is another matter.Chinese hackers hit universities. An elaborate set of attacks sought to steal research about military maritime technology.Artificial intelligence cameras can spot shoplifters before they steal. Software can identify “restlessness and other potentially suspicious body language,” according to Bloomberg. You don’t know data overload. Gizmodo invites you to meet the digital hoarders who collect “terabytes of text files.”Jamie Condliffe is editor of the DealBook newsletter. Follow him on Twitter here: @jme_c.

The hero’s journey to this milestone is filled with many memorable moments, from his debut, to Robin’s and Batgirl’s and more.This cover of Detective Comics No. 1000, drawn by Nicola Scott and colored by Annette Kwok, will be sold at King's Comics in Sydney, Australia. Scott, who is Australian, described the cover as “a class photo, Batman through the decades.”CreditCreditDCSupported byBy George Gene GustinesHoly milestones, Batman! Detective Comics, where the caped crusader debuted on March 30, 1939, will reach issue No. 1000 on Wednesday, just days before the hero’s 80th birthday. “It is evidence of the greatness and power of the Batman concept that the character has appeared continuously over eight decades,” Peter Sanderson, a comic book historian, said.  Growing up, I saw versions of Batman in comics and on TV, but one of the great leaps forward was Frank Miller’s The Dark Knight Returns, a four-part story which presented an older version of the hero coming out of retirement to protect Gotham City once more. Miller’s vision of Batman helped pave the way for Tim Burton’s “Batman,” starring Michael Keaton, perhaps the first time my love of comics was less childish and more socially acceptable. Since then, we’ve had many film Batmen — his onscreen incarnations have oscillated between campy (Joel Schumacher) and dignified (Christopher Nolan) — but his guiding principle has remained the same. “Batman never gives up on his mission to protect the innocent from evil,” Sanderson said. Comic book creators, historians and fans helped me pick out key moments in Detective Comics to commemorate Batman’s career. Here they are: March 1939Detective Comics was an anthology series that began in 1937 that eventually gave DC Comics its name. The Bat-Man, as he was then called inside the book, premiered in this issue’s six-page “The Case of the Chemical Syndicate.” (The later cover date — of May, in this instance — was a practice publishers used to keep comics on newsstands longer.) The story introduces Commissioner Gordon, the wealthy Bruce Wayne and his caped alter-ego, who thinks nothing of heaving a criminal off a roof. Batman was created by the artist Bob Kane and the writer Bill Finger, though it took many years for Finger to receive credit for his significant contributions to the canon. Another bat-fact: A copy of Detective No. 27 sold at auction for $1.075 million in 2010. [Read The New York Times obituary for Bob Kane, who died in 1998, and a short article about Bill Finger and the Bronx.]March 1940The world of Batman brightened with the introduction of Robin, the Boy Wonder. “Robin humanizes Batman and also allows for some levity in the heavy-shadowed stories of Gotham, while of course hooking young readers with someone they can also relate to,” said Peter J. Tomasi, who writes the current Detective Comics series. It certainly hooked me. As a young fan in the 1970s, Robin, whose real name was Dick Grayson, was one of my introductions to superheroes. I witnessed his growth into adulthood and transformation into Nightwing, a confident, outgoing adventurer who brings together the DC heroes in a way that the more reclusive Batman cannot. Since Dick’s graduation, other Robins have emerged, including Bruce Wayne’s son, Damian. [Read about Peter J. Tomasi’s graphic novel history of the Brooklyn Bridge and about how Dick Grayson grew up.]December 1949Michael E. Uslan, a comic books historian and a producer of the “Batman” films, called this issue transformative. “The Batmobile of 1950,” he said, “redefines Batman, modernizes him, and moves him into a new generation, equipped with higher tech.” (There have since been many iterations of the Batmobile.) The cover mentions  an “Indian lawman,” a sheriff who is Sioux. His name is Ohiyesa Smith. But, in a sign of the times, a character decides, “That name’s too tough to pronounce,” and calls him Pow Wow, based on his philosophy of talking first, then resorting to violence if needed. March 1964“This issue introduces the legendary ‘New Look’ Batman, with the yellow circle around his chest symbol and a whole new look and style both visually and in terms of character development and story,” Uslan said. “Readers of that era still feel jarred and elated by this sea change!” The chief architects of the evolution were the editor Julius Schwartz and the artist Carmine Infantino, who came in to shore up sagging sales in the hopes of avoiding cancellation.November 1966When producers of the Batman television series wanted to increase female viewership, they asked DC for a new character. They got Batgirl, whose civilian guise is Barbara Gordon, the daughter of Gotham’s police commissioner. Batgirl’s career was halted in 1988, when she was paralyzed after being shot by the Joker. She eventually became Oracle, a hacker and information broker aiding DC’s heroes. In 2011, she underwent experimental surgery that returned her to the rooftops. Many fans would love to see Barbara Gordon and Dick Grayson as a romantic dynamic duo.[When the Adam West “Batman” series came to Blu-ray.]November 1973Batman has no dialogue in “Night of the Stalker,” which is a little gimmicky but manages to work, if you believe the hero's laser-sharp focus leaves little room for words. The story — written by Steve Englehart, plotted and drawn by Vin and Sal Amendola and inked by Dick Giordano — begins with our hero seeing bank robbers murder a couple in front of their son. After justice is served, Batman unmasks at home. Suddenly “sorrow explodes within him” as he remembers being a boy and witnessing the death of his parents. The final caption: “In this gray-lit, lonely tower, for this single moment in infinity … he is that boy again.”December 1975Another side of Batman emerges in “There Is No Hope in Crime Alley,” by Denny O’Neil and Dick Giordano. Batman makes an annual pilgrimage to the street where his parents died, seeking out Leslie Thompkins, a woman who consoled a young Bruce Wayne on that fateful night. That encounter inspired Leslie to devote herself to charitable work in hopes of preventing future tragedy. In a rarity for Batman, he thanks her and kisses her brow tenderly. In the morning, his loyal butler, Alfred, finds him sleeping peacefully and smiling.December 1980Paul Levitz, whose long career with DC began in 1972, said that assembling the all-star creators for this milestone issue was his proudest editorial moment. The 80 pages include a prose piece by Walter Gibson, the creator of the Shadow, in a tribute to the earliest days of Detective, which included text stories. Another achievement: In 1978, when Levitz took over editing Batman, he read every issue of Batman, Detective and World’s Finest that had featured the hero. It was a daunting task then, and seems nearly impossible today.June 2009Batwoman was originally introduced in Detective No. 233 in 1956, in part to give Batman a love interest. It did not take. She was rebooted in 2006 as a lesbian who had been discharged from the military. This Batwoman was embraced by fans, and she took over Detective for a year before graduating to her own series. In 2013, her creative team quit over an editorial edict preventing her from marrying. The decision was about keeping true to the mission of the Batman characters, who have sacrificed their self-interests for the greater good.March 2019This 96-page issue has several stories by a boldface slate of creators. The first, “Batman’s Longest Case,” by Scott Snyder and Greg Capullo, recalls his first adventure. It also introduces the Detective Guild, some of whose members had extensive solo stories in Detective, including Slam Bradley (12 years), Martian Manhunter (nine years) and Elongated Man (five years). “The richness, variety and popularity of these backups contributed to Detective’s success and longevity,” said Richard Roney, a member of the geek squad I run with, who researched and extolled these supporting characters.Image Credits: DCGeorge Gustines is a senior editor. He began writing about the comic book industry in 2002.  @georgegustines • Facebook 

Supported byBy Melina Delkic and Virginia LozanoHere are the week’s top stories, and a look ahead. 1. The long-awaited report from Robert Mueller, the special counsel, landed. And in many ways, it was just the beginning.Federal and state prosecutors were pursuing about a dozen other investigations that largely grew out of Mr. Mueller’s work.A constitutional battle was brewing, as Democrats swiftly demanded the release of the full report and any underlying documents.Attorney General William Barr may release the report’s principal conclusions to Congress as soon as this weekend. He is expected to take longer to review the broader report for any classified information. Above, various newspaper front pages announcing the report outside the Newseum in Washington.If you still have questions, we have guides to what we know, who was involved and what’s next to keep you covered.Have you been keeping up with the headlines? Test your knowledge with our news quiz. And here’s the front page of our Sunday paper, the Sunday Review from Opinion and our crossword puzzles.____2. Boeing was “go, go, go” to beat a competitor, Airbus, with its 737 Max 8 jet.To clinch a deal with American Airlines, the company needed to update its workhorse 737 in six years. The competitive pressure to build the jet now threatens the reputation and profits of Boeing, after two deadly crashes of the 737 Max in less than five months.The pace of the work on the 737 Max was frenetic, according to current and former employees who spoke with The Times. Prosecutors are investigating whether Boeing rushed, missed crucial safety risks and underplayed the need for pilot training. Above, the Boeing plant in Renton, Wash.And this week, we learned that grief for some families of the Indonesia flight crash victims has been exacerbated by an effort to pressure them to renounce all rights to sue in exchange for compensation.____3. The Islamic State’s last territory in Syria fell to U.S.-backed forces, ending a four-year battle and toppling a rogue state that was once the size of Britain.The loss of Baghuz, the last remnant of the biggest territory the Islamic State controlled, is a blow. At its zenith, the group controlled the lives of up to 12 million people. It became the world’s richest terrorist organization, raking in billions. Above, men who fled the last area of ISIS control waiting to be questioned about their links to the group by coalition forces.But the terrorist group remains a serious, violent threat. It commands thousands of followers from Afghanistan to the Philippines.____4. In other international news:New Zealand banned assault rifles, six days after a mass shooting in Christchurch left 50 people dead. The country also banned the alleged gunman’s manifesto, making it a crime to possess or distribute it. Meanwhile, vigils are being held across the country, like the one above, in Christchurch.The European Union approved a Brexit extension, giving Prime Minister Theresa May and Parliament more time to get their act together. Many Britons were not pleased. Thousands marched against Brexit in London on Saturday afternoon. Read more about how we got here and where we go from here.In Mozambique and nearby countries, a cyclone affected more than 1.5 million people. Hundreds of people were killed, and the death toll is rising. Learn how you can help.And Italy defied allies and became the first of the Group of 7 nations to sign on to China’s “One Belt, One Road” expansion project.____5. In Washington this week:President Trump overruled his own national security experts and announced a rollback of sanctions on North Korea. Meanwhile, North Korea escalated an attempt to create a rift between South Korea and the U.S. Above, Pyongyang, North Korea.Separately, days after the president declared that Israel should have sovereignty over the long disputed Golan Heights, the American Israel Public Affairs Committee was preparing for its annual conference amid rising tensions.And the Federal Reserve downgraded its outlook for the U.S. economy, and signaled little appetite for raising interest rates. Just three months ago, investors were in a panic over the idea that the Fed might push borrowing costs too high.____6. This week, we reported that major flooding could impact 13 million people this spring.After Nebraska and other Midwestern states were already devasted by record-breaking winter floods, we could see a “potentially unprecedented” increase this spring, said Edward Clark, director of NOAA’s National Water Center. Above, flooding in Hamburg, Iowa.Is climate change the cause?It’s complicated. Each flood is its own phenomenon. But large amounts of rain can increase their likelihood, and heavier precipitation is an observed consequence of climate change.____7. It’s the first weekend of the N.C.A.A. men’s basketball tournament.Wrapping up the week, the Blue Devils pulled away on Friday with a victory after a slow start, and their fellow No. 1 seeds Virginia and North Carolina did the same. Above, North Carolina vs. Iona.Duke’s Zion Williamson said that before he led Duke to a win, his teammates were in his ear, telling him to be himself. “It just gives you energy,” he said, “and I just try to bring energy for my team.”____8. Before the hacking of Sony Pictures and the Democratic National Committee, and before the first WikiLeak, there was Anthony Pellicano.Mr. Pellicano, above, a notorious private eye for the stars, spent 15 years in prison for illegal wiretapping and other crimes. He was released on Friday. In his career, he was known for using police tools like criminal background databases to help his clients, who paid him hundreds of thousands of dollars.He wiretapped actors like Sylvester Stallone, and did work on behalf of Chris Rock and Courtney Love. He once offered to have a producer murdered, and his body buried in the desert, according to testimony at his trial.____9. Once on the margins, older African-American artists are being embraced by the art world.We spoke to artists in their 70s and 80s who are enjoying a renaissance, with popular exhibitions in museums and works that sometimes garner millions at auctions. At an age when many artists begin to slow down, they must balance the pressures of success.“The kind of elation I may have had back 30 years, I’m past that point,” said Howardena Pindell, pictured above. “It’s a more a sense of feeling protected and safe in terms of the vicissitudes of the art world.”____10. Finally, we have our weekend reads.We wrote about snowplow parents who are getting in the way of their children’s success. We reviewed “Us,” where Jordan Peele, the director of “Get Out,” returned with a horror movie about a family terrorized by weird doubles. Above, the actress Lupita Nyong’o in a scene. And we profiled the PBS travel host Rick Steves, a gentle soul who wants to help you feel at home in the world.For more suggestions on what to read, watch and listen to, try one of 11 new books our editors liked, TV recommendations from Watching, and our music critics’ latest playlist.Have an inspired week, and enjoy the first weekend of spring.____Your Weekend Briefing is published Sundays at 6 a.m. Eastern.You can sign up here to get our Morning Briefings by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning, or here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.

Supported byBy Ana SwansonWASHINGTON — The United States and China are pushing for a summit meeting in late April to complete a trade deal, while negotiators are still grappling over its terms and how they should be enforced.Although much remains unsettled, one thing is becoming clear: The Trump administration will continue to hold the threat of tariffs over Beijing to ensure that it lives up to whatever commitments it agrees to in the final deal. That approach is prompting concern among American businesses that the economic damage and uncertainty caused by President Trump’s trade war could persist even once negotiations are resolved.On Friday, a report commissioned by the nation’s biggest business lobbying group showed that the Trump administration’s tariffs are actually damaging an industry the levies were intended to protect. The report, by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the Rhodium Group, a research firm, said that Mr. Trump’s tariffs on $250 billion worth of Chinese goods were eroding the competitiveness of the America information technology sector — including companies that manufacture computers, electronics and telecom equipment, as well as provide services like cloud computing, computer-aided design and customer relations.The report estimated that the tariffs, if they remain in place, would reduce United States gross domestic product by at least $1 trillion within 10 years. The American G.D.P. was about $20.5 trillion in 2018.The business community, along with both Democrats and Republicans in Congress, have been critical of Mr. Trump’s tariffs but they have been willing to carry the costs of Mr. Trump’s trade war if it brings about needed change. Executives across industries say they support efforts by Mr. Trump to reset an economic relationship that has too often put United States companies and workers at a disadvantage.“There’s no cheap way to pursue these kinds of policy objectives,” said Daniel Rosen, a founding partner of the Rhodium Group, a research firm with extensive experience in China, and one of the authors of the report.Businesses have long complained of unfair treatment in the Chinese market, including pressure to hand over valuable technology and discrimination against foreign companies operating there. The Trump administration has calculated that China’s hacking intrusions and coerced acquisitions of technology cost American companies at least $50 billion a year alone.But it remains unclear whether Mr. Trump’s final deal will achieve the kind of change that would make the fight worth the cost. American negotiators have been pushing China for more substantive economic changes than it seems willing to accept, including rolling back subsidies to Chinese companies and lowering barriers to foreign competition.China’s lawmakers last week passed a sweeping rewrite to its laws on foreign investment. While the reforms are a nod to Mr. Trump’s concerns, some China experts criticized the language as overly broad and say it represents only a step toward the kind of more transformative changes that are needed.The president has insisted he could “walk” if America does not get what it wants from China. But he also wants to avoid further roiling a jittery stock market, which has fallen on news of a prolonged trade war, and to limit economic damage ahead of the 2020 election.That is prompting concern among Republican lawmakers and American businesses that Mr. Trump could ultimately accept a weak deal that includes high-profile purchases of American products like liquid natural gas and soybeans but only vague and ultimately unenforceable commitments in more important areas of structural reform.On Thursday, Mr. Trump lauded the Chinese as “very responsible and very reasonable,” and said there would be news on China “one way or the other” over the next three to four weeks.“We could snatch defeat from the jaws of victory fairly easily here,” said Stephen K. Bannon, President Trump’s former chief strategist. He said that the president had succeeded in amping up leverage on China, but that the administration risked squandering that leverage for a deal that focused primarily on product purchases.“Nobody thought Trump would be able to pull it off — he has,” Mr. Bannon added. “Now you might throw it away.”The administration had been pushing toward a signing summit meeting with Mr. Trump and President Xi Jinping to resolve the trade conflict at the end of March. But outstanding differences over how the two sides would roll back their tariffs and enforce their agreement have prolonged the talks.In a meeting last week, the president huddled with Vice President Mike Pence, the trade representative, Robert Lighthizer, and other advisers to discuss whether China is serious about offering concessions or if it was merely paying lip service to Mr. Trump, according to a person with knowledge of the situation.Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, said Thursday that the administration was “pleased with the progress” of the talks and that “a lot of documents” were moving back and forth but acknowledged that a signing ceremony this month was out of the question.“We still have more work to do,” Mr. Mnuchin said. “It’s more important we get the right agreement and not rush it, but we’re working diligently to try to do this as quickly as possible.”The Chinese are now pushing for Mr. Xi’s trip to take the form of a state visit to Washington, though plans are still in flux, people with knowledge of the discussions said.Susan Shirk, chairwoman of the 21st Century China Center at the School of Global Policy and Strategy at the University of California, San Diego, said it would take negotiators time to test which of the objectives the Chinese were able to give ground on, and which they were not.“If my supposition that this is actually a more professional negotiation, a more serious one, is correct, then it’s not surprising it would need more time,” Ms. Shirk said. “It doesn’t mean things are bad.”Mr. Trump’s summit meeting in February with the North Korean leader Kim Jong-un, which ended abruptly when Mr. Trump felt the other side was not producing enough concessions, may be another reason the United States-China event has been pushed back. The Chinese are wary of sending their president halfway around the world only to return empty-handed. They have been trying to iron out the details beforehand.“We don’t need another U.S.-North Korea summit, where so much was left unresolved, and in which both sides were hoping through the force of personality to persuade the other side to their viewpoint,” said Gary Locke, an American ambassador to China during the Obama administration. “You need all the minutiae negotiated ahead of time.”A final deal could also be stymied by America’s insistence that it be allowed to use tariffs against China if Beijing does not uphold its end of the agreement. China is pushing for the United States to lift all the tariffs the administration has already imposed and there is concern among Chinese officials about agreeing to a deal that does not remove all the tariffs or that allows the United States to impose additional levies in the future.Mr. Trump has previously suggested the United States could keep some tariffs in place, even if a deal is reached.“Without the tariffs, we wouldn’t be talking,” Mr. Trump said in an interview with The New York Times in January.In testimony before Congress last week, Mr. Lighthizer declined to specify whether the administration would lift all of its tariffs when a deal is struck, or hold some of the levies in place and roll them back only once China accomplishes certain reforms. People familiar with Mr. Lighthizer’s thinking say he prefers the latter approach, but he could yet be overruled if the White House is eager to secure a deal.In China, the tone has turned more positive, potentially presaging a conclusion to the talks. Xinhua, China’s state news agency, reported that Mr. Mnuchin and Mr. Lighthizer spoke with Vice Premier Liu He by phone on Thursday and made “further substantial progress” on the text of the deal.Keith Bradsher contributed reporting from Beijing, and Alan Rappeport from Washington.

Supported bySyria DispatchBy Ben HubbardAL HOL CAMP, Syria — She left the Netherlands to join the Islamic State in Syria, and married a fighter here. He was killed, so she married another, who got her pregnant before he was killed, too.Then this month, as the Islamic State collapsed, she surrendered with her son to United States-backed forces and landed in the sprawling Al Hol tent camp, which has swollen to the breaking point with the human remnants of the so-called caliphate.“I just want to go back to a normal life,” said Jeanetta Yahani, 34, as her son Ahmed, 3, clung to her leg and shook with a violent cough.The announcement a week ago that the Islamic State had lost its final patch of territory in Syria was a milestone in the battle against the world’s most fearsome terrorist network. But it also raised urgent questions about what to do with the tens of thousands of people who had flocked to join the jihadists from around the world and now have nowhere else to go.Al Hol, a sprawling, isolated conglomeration of tents on rocky soil surrounded by a chain-link fence and armed guards, held about 9,000 people in December. As the Islamic State’s final territories fell, its population swelled to more than 72,000.TURKEYAl Hol CampAleppoRaqqahDeir al-ZourSYRIAHomsAbu KamalDamascusIRAQTURKEYAl Hol CampAleppoRaqqahDeir al-ZourSYRIAHomsAbu KamalDamascusIRAQBy The New York TimesThe population explosion has taxed the camp’s resources, leading to crowding and long lines for food, fuel and drinking water.On a rare visit to the foreigners’ section of the camp on Thursday, a team of New York Times journalists found a miserable international tableau of lost women and children. Along muddy, trash-strewn lanes between rows of white tents, we heard groups of women chatting in English, Russian, French, Dutch and Chinese. We saw blond- and black-haired children playing together in the mud.A German woman told me she had come to Syria with her husband, a doctor. Now she had no idea where he was, and she was stuck in the camp with a baby in her arms and a curly-haired toddler gripping her leg.But she did not want to return to Germany, which she considered an infidel country.“I don’t want to raise my kids in a society that’s totally corrupt, where every sin is promoted,” she said, declining to give her name.It was better to tough it out in Syria, she said. “This is temporary. The afterlife is forever.”[For more stories about the collapse of the Islamic State, sign up for the weekly At War newsletter.]Although the Islamic State no longer controls the vast territory that that once stretched across Iraq and Syria, the women in the camp still followed its rules, wearing black gowns and face veils with slits for their eyes.Their clothes were dirty, the hems and shoes caked with mud. Many toted toddlers with hacking coughs and runny noses. Other children sold cookies and soda their relatives had managed to bring in, or stood in long lines for food, drinking water and gas for generators.Al Hol is the largest of three detention camps run by the Kurdish-led administration in northeastern Syria. Other camps dot Iraq and Libya.Along with tens of thousands of Syrians and Iraqis, the Syria camps hold 12,000 foreign women and children, according to Redur Xelil, a senior official with the Syrian Democratic Forces, the United States-backed militia that fought the jihadists. The force also holds more than 8,000 fighters, including 1,000 foreigners, in its prisons.A handful of places, including France, Russia and Chechnya have taken back tiny numbers of their citizens, mostly women, children and orphans. But most of the home countries do not want the caliphate’s former residents back, so they are stuck here, in a stateless, unstable territory.The local administration lacks the resources to deal with them and worries that the paucity of international support could help the Islamic State reconstitute itself.“There is little support, little response,” said Mohammed Bashir, a camp administrator.This week, local officials called for the creation of an international court to try foreign fighters, but the idea has garnered little international support and the Syrian government would probably block it.While determining the exact backgrounds of the women and children in the camps is difficult since many lack identification and use fake names, they are generally considered less dangerous than the men. But some were also combatants. And some still endorse the extremists’ ideology, making local officials reluctant to let them leave.More than 9,000 of Al Hol’s residents are foreigners who are kept in a special section, which I visited with a photographer on Thursday.As soon as we entered, women approached us to ask if we could help them return to their countries or find missing loved ones.“Are you from the Swedish Red Crescent?” a woman asked, trotting away after I said no.“I am from a country that no one knows about, so I will never get out of here,” said a woman from the Seychelles.Spotting strangers in the camp, Lisa Smith, a former member of the Irish Defense Forces, said hello but declined to be interviewed.Some women still clung to the jihadists’ ideology.A 22-year-old Chechen woman who identified herself only as Um Aisha described life in the caliphate as “all very good.”“There were brothers who believed in Shariah, an Islamic state, and it was not like this,” she said, pointing disapprovingly at two female aid workers wearing pants.The woman’s husband was killed in an airstrike on the Islamic State’s final pocket this month, she said, but she did not think the jihadists’ project was over.“Our brothers are everywhere, in Germany, in Russia, in America — we believe that al-Dawla al-Islamia will come back,” she said, using the group’s Arabic name.Others expressed regrets.Galion Su, from Trinidad, stood near the camp’s gate with her face uncovered, hoping to get out and look for her teenage son, who had been arrested by Kurdish forces in January.Her husband brought them to Syria in 2014 and the couple divorced soon after, leaving her struggling to care for her son.“I was like a whore in the Dawla,” said Ms. Su, 45. She had married four men, she said, each on the condition that they let her keep her son.When the jihadists tried to force him to fight, she dressed him as a woman and fled, but Kurdish forces arrested him when they discovered the ruse, she said. Now, she had no idea where he is.“I just want to be normal and go back to a normal society, sleep in a nice bed, eat nice food, watch TV and laugh,” she said.Children make up about two-thirds of Al Hol’s residents. Some are orphans. Many described in detail and with little emotion how their fathers had been killed. All had witnessed violence, and some had been taught to practice it.Camp officials say they are too busy scrambling to provide tents and food to offer schooling or other activities, much less to deal with people’s psychological problems or to re-educate children trained by the jihadists. The challenge is intensified because some parents still endorse the jihadists’ ideology.“The mentality is the same. Nothing has changed,” said Mr. Bashir, the camp administrator. “The children are innocent, but when they end up in the camp, they will learn what their parents teach.”As the sun set after a rare sunny day on Thursday, we found ourselves surrounded by hordes of children playing. A group of Turkish boys played a rowdy game of soccer while children from Iraq, Egypt, Russia and elsewhere pelted one another with fistfuls of gravel.Standing atop a latrine, an Iraqi boy with a toy rifle shouted, “The Islamic State has invaded!” Training his sight on another child, he threatened, “I’m a sniper. I’ll shoot you in the head right away.”Nearby, two toddlers got into a fight and fell to the ground punching each other while a 10-year-old boy who was missing his right leg looked on. He declined to give his name or say where he was from, and responded to questions with short answers.How did you lose your leg?“A plane. Shrapnel.”What do you want to do now?“Get a tent and stay in it. Or maybe a house.”Where?“I don’t know.”Mustafa Ali contributed reporting.Follow Ben Hubbard on Twitter: @NYTBen.

Supported byBy David StoutJuan V. Corona, who joined the grim pantheon of America’s serial killers when he was convicted of slaughtering 25 migrant workers and burying them on farms near his home in the Sacramento Valley in California, died on Monday. He was 85.A statement by the California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation said he had died at a hospital near the state prison in Corcoran, in the south-central part of the state, where for almost a half-century he had been serving 25 concurrent life sentences for first-degree murder.Mr. Corona’s victims were luckless drifters who moved from farm to farm, scratching out a bare existence in the valley’s orchards, groves and vineyards. No one seemed to miss these “fruit tramps,” as the locals called them, when they disappeared.The killings came to light after a peach farmer spotted a fresh hole in one of his orchards near Yuba City on May 19, 1971. When he returned to investigate later that day, the hole had been filled in.Suspicious, the farmer called the Sutter County sheriff’s office. Deputies dug up the body of a man. He had been stabbed in the chest and his head had been split open. A search of the orchards in the vicinity revealed other graves, some freshly dug, some made weeks before.The digging went on for days, until 25 corpses had been unearthed. The victims ranged in age from about 40 to the mid-60s. All had been hacked and stabbed. One had been shot as well.Store receipts and bank-deposit slips found in some graves were linked to Mr. Corona, a stocky man in his late 30s who was described in 1971 as a Mexican-born resident alien. As a licensed labor contractor, he had recruited field hands from bars and other places where migrant workers gathered. His wife sometimes cooked for them.A search of his house in Yuba City turned up a bloodstained machete and a ledger with the names of victims. Blood was found in his pickup truck.Mr. Corona was convicted twice, a second trial having been ordered because of incompetent representation in the first.Mr. Corona maintained his innocence for years. Then, at a parole hearing on Dec. 5, 2011, he admitted his crimes, apparently for the first time in a public forum. (He was reported to have confessed before to a prison psychologist.)Asked if he knew why he was in prison, Mr. Corona replied, “Well, I commit all those — those dead persons, 25.”When asked why he had killed them, he gave a rambling answer in which he called the victims “winos” and “creeps” who had been “trespassing.” It was the closest he ever came to saying why he did it. Prosecutors never offered a motive.With a wife, Gloria, and four young daughters, Juan Vallejo Corona seemed an unlikely killer. But he had trouble in his past. A flood that killed dozens of people in Sutter County in late 1955 had apparently left him unhinged, convinced that the people around him were the ghosts of those who had drowned.A half brother, Natividad Corona, committed him to a mental hospital in early 1956. He was released months later, after undergoing electroshock treatments for schizophrenia. For a time he seemed to have a stable life, working his way up from farm laborer to labor contractor. He went to church.Yet he was known to be quick-tempered and a brooder. In March 1970 he began another monthslong stay in a mental hospital. The next year, with increasing mechanization hurting his business, he applied for welfare. When his application was denied, he flew into a rage, a welfare official recalled.Then came the horrific discoveries in the orchards and the ensuing trials, which had elements of farce as well as horror and cost the taxpayers millions of dollars.The first trial began on Sept. 11, 1972, in the Solano County city of Fairfield, east of San Francisco, after the defense was granted a change of venue. In the courtroom, the defendant’s wife shouted, “Good luck, Juan!” One of Mr. Corona’s sisters was later arrested, charged with obstructing the entrance to the courthouse by lying down outside it and refusing to move.The trial was embarrassing for both sides. Prosecutors were found to have misplaced or mishandled evidence, and forensic tests that ought to have been done early on were delayed. At one point a prosecutor improperly suggested that Mr. Corona’s refusal to testify suggested that he was guilty.The judge, who repeatedly expressed dismay at the prosecutors’ performance, reminded the jury that the burden of proof rested totally on the prosecution. Mr. Corona was convicted on Jan. 18, 1973, and sentenced to life in prison. (The California Supreme Court had overturned the state’s death penalty months before the trial.)Even after finding Mr. Corona guilty, some jurors said they were “shocked” and “flabbergasted” that his defense had presented no psychiatric evidence on his behalf. His original public defender had planned to have him plead not guilty by reason of insanity, but the family retained a lawyer who spurned that approach. Later, the lawyer was found to have been angling for a book deal about the case.In May 1978, a California appeals court overturned the conviction, declaring that Mr. Corona’s defense had been inept and compromised.The second trial was held in Hayward, in Alameda County, near San Francisco and lasted from Feb. 22 to Sept. 23, 1982. Represented by a new defense team, Mr. Corona took the stand, insisting that he was innocent. (His wife was not there; she had divorced him in 1974.)A defense lawyer suggested that the real killer was the half brother Natividad Corona, whom he described as an “aggressive homosexual.” Natividad Corona was an ideal scapegoat: He had owned a saloon where a customer was found in a bathroom one night in February 1970 with slashes on his head and face. And by the time of Juan Corona’s second trial, Natividad Corona had returned to Mexico and could not be located.No one was ever charged in the saloon incident, although the victim sued Natividad Corona and was awarded $250,000. It is not known whether he collected.Convicted again, Juan Corona was resentenced to life in prison, where he deteriorated mentally and physically. A decade earlier, on Dec. 1, 1973, he had suffered more than 30 wounds and lost his left eye when another inmate stabbed him in a prison hospital.At a parole hearing in December 2011, Mr. Corona often wandered into near-incoherence. He told of being the ninth of 10 children born to a couple in Jalisco, Mexico, in 1934; of coming to the United States illegally as a boy and getting sent back to Mexico, then returning to the States legally after his half brother had settled in California.Asked if he felt remorse, Mr. Corona gave a meandering answer, then said, “So I went and buy the machete and then O.K., I started killing when I had to kill all those persons, one by one.” At another point he said he must have been “sick in my thinking.”Mr. Corona was denied parole. There was no information about whether he had any survivors. At his parole hearing he said that his brothers and sisters were “all dead.”There has been speculation that there may have been more victims of Mr. Corona lying undiscovered among the orchards. The bodies of 14 of his known victims were never claimed. Four were never identified.

Supported bySports of The TimesBy Michael PowellWEST PALM BEACH, Fla. — I walked into the spring training locker room of the Houston Astros with a question for the assembled players. What is going on with the slow pace of free-agent contracts this winter?Alex Bregman, the Astros’ star third baseman, had just finished taking his morning hacks on the field and is likely to be a future occupant of baseball’s penthouse. He could earn a munificent contract of the sort handed out to Bryce Harper ($330 million) and Manny Machado ($300 million) these past two weeks. But he sees many dozens of ballplayers who have fallen short of stardom without contracts, and that angers him.Worse, he sees teams content with mediocrity: Fewer clubs are competing to sign the stars. “A lot of teams seem fine with losing and getting TV money and making no attempt to sign players,” he said. “That is bad for the game.”I wandered over to Josh Reddick’s locker. Lithe and a free spirit, he’s a good right fielder and a careful observer of the game. He suggested that perhaps baseball players should follow the lead of N.B.A. players and speak out.“A lot of guys are pissed off,” he said. “There are a lot of guys who should have jobs who are just hanging there. If it takes another bad strike to change this, then that’s what we need to do.”We have arrived at a hinge point in sports. From angry baseball players talking strike to quarterback Colin Kaepernick to running back Le’Veon Bell to the N.B.A. players LeBron James, Stephen Curry and Chris Paul, professional athletes are splendidly outspoken. They opine on President Trump and popular culture and their sport’s economics, and it is indisputably stirring to see young men and women looking beyond the horizon of wins and losses.Yet politicization plays out in radically different ways and not invariably to the benefit of athletes. Baseball grooves on and is constrained by its traditions. It has a powerful union, the strongest in pro sports, and that coexists with the sense that individuality is suspect and no player is as big as the sport itself.So baseball players sail toward a possible confrontation with the owners without leaders who possess the transcendent cultural cachet and business power of, say, a LeBron James.“It feels like baseball lives in the past, and that undercuts player power,” noted Adrian Burgos, a history professor at the University of Illinois and editor of La Vida Baseball, which studies the Latino influence on baseball. “Whereas the N.B.A. imagines itself as the future, and it has to create a world in which players have more power.”The N.B.A., players in many sports will tell you, stands as the zeitgeist prototype, the most free-spirited of the leagues and with the youngest fan base — the average age of an N.B.A. viewer is 37, compared with 55 in baseball. Its stars have become hybrids: players, power brokers and globe-spanning businessmen. So James, who signed with the Los Angeles Lakers with an eye toward building an entertainment empire, spent much of February trying to force the New Orleans Pelicans to trade its star center, Anthony Davis, to the Lakers.James’s heist failed amid complaints he had stepped out of his player’s lane and tampered with another team’s star. Suffice to say James did not appear chastened and Davis could try to force a trade this summer. James has a television show, “The Shop,” on HBO, and guess who was one of his scheduled guests on the Season 2 premiere on Friday night?Yes, the same A. Davis.The N.B.A. life is nothing if not an intersectional experience.Baseball and football are more tightly bound by their cultures and history. The N.F.L. long ago went all in on Death Star dominance, sated on money and nose wrinkled in distaste for dissent. The owners cut a presumably very large check to Kaepernick, who almost certainly was blackballed for taking a dignified knee during the national anthem. There is no assurance he will again run out onto an N.F.L. field.Player solidarity in football is a barely flickering lamp. When Bell refused to report to the Steelers’ training camp last fall, The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette reported that teammates removed his name plate and plundered his locker of shoes. Bell decided to sit out the 2018 season rather than accept a constraining franchise-tag deal.“The N.F.L. has capitalized in post-9/11 patriotism and the sense that its shield is bigger than players, and that infects the sport,” David Leonard, a professor who teaches about the intersection of race, culture and sport at Washington State, Pullman, said.The N.B.A. is the antithesis of this. Player and even coaching personas — see Steve Kerr and Gregg Popovich’s scathing takes on Trump — have become central to its marketing appeal, a Twitter, WhatsApp, Instagrammed world of hooping and opining. Adam Silver, the commissioner of the N.B.A., may not groove on athletes’ desire to bend teams to their will, but that is woven into the league’s DNA.Bill Russell, the 85-year-old basketball legend who took a photo of himself wearing a T-shirt with the words, “I’m with Kap,” and tweeted it out, serves as a reminder, too, that its athletes have been outspoken for generations.“N.B.A. players are taking a role in their own marketing and their own futures,” Leonard said. “You see a concerted effort not only to wield power but to create power.”This has not escaped the notice of baseball players. In their world, too much individuality, wearing a hat backward or tossing a bat like a baton after a home run, can draw a roll of eyes.Reddick, the Astros’ right fielder, has watched N.B.A. players with admiration. “Basketball players are very outspoken about their opinions,” he said. “Baseball has always been about giving the generic cliché answer that keeps you guessing. Basketball players are much more outspoken and go into it with a lot of depth.”Analytics border on Holy Writ in baseball front offices and for many sportswriters, and this too acts to strangely diminish stars even in their moment of glory. So we’re told that Harper, an intense and seemingly transcendent young star, is less than he appears because his WAR rating last year (wins above replacement and a rather subjective statistic) was low. There is the implicit suggestion that players and fans would do well to yield to numeracy triumphalism.That insistence acts as oil poured on the bonfire of player discontent. Stars to the side, more than 70 major leaguers remain without contracts, and rank-and-file sorts have signed minor league contracts in hopes they might clamber onto a major league roster with a good spring. The players note — how to say this sweetly? — the coincidence that team computer programs seem to kick out contract offers that occupy the same narrow bandwidth.In the 1980s, such coincidence went by the name of collusion; today, it’s apparently just artificial intelligence doing what it does.Zack Britton, a fine relief pitcher, signed a three-year, $39 million contract this winter with the Yankees, and counted himself lucky. “These clubs are all controlled by Major League Baseball,” he said. “And they are submitting almost the same offers, which is kind of weird, right?”Reddick has walked this modern baseball world. He played four years for the Oakland Athletics and loved his manager and the bleacher bums with whom he partied and the Bay Area. When he reached free agency and wanted his compensation, well: Hasta la vista, baby.The Athletics pull off this tightwad act with exceedingly bright management, but it is an exception.“Unless you’re a die-hard fan and you’ve got a date or you just want to get hammered on $9 beers, it’s hard to see why you’d keep going to the games of some teams,” Reddick said. “It’s a bummer because you are supposed to want to win games.”The union-management agreement expires in two years. In this age of the outspoken athlete, the center may no longer hold. “In 2021,” Reddick predicted, “a lot of stuff could hit the fan.”

Supported byLet us help you start your day.By Alisha Haridasani Gupta(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Another attempt in Parliament to control the Brexit process, a special look at Indian elections and a global search for “Salvator Mundi.” Here’s the latest:Late Monday in Britain, lawmakers will try again to come up with an alternative to Prime Minister Theresa May’s plan, which they have now rejected three times.Chances of success appear minimal. None of the eight options that were on the table last week managed to fetch a majority in Parliament, and fewer are likely to be considered in this round.Failure would leave the country with two unappealing options: leave the E.U. in a little over a week without a deal or delay Brexit further.Analysis: “In interviews, many Britons expressed despair over the inability of the political system to produce a compromise,” our London correspondents Ellen Barry and Benjamin Mueller write. “No one feels that the government has represented their interests. No one is satisfied. No one is hopeful.“It has amounted to a hollowing out of confidence in democracy itself.”The winners: One industry that seems to be booming amid the Brexit chaos: law firms dealing with client concerns about the legal ramifications of the divorce with the E.U. The president, emboldened by his attorney general’s public characterization of the Mueller report, has threatened to close off parts of the U.S. border with Mexico this week. He also ordered the State Department to cut off aid to Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador, saying the three countries were not doing enough to stop migrants from pushing north.In recent weeks, Border Patrol facilities have been strained by an influx of migrants — the largest annual surge in years — ahead of the arrival of the deadly summer heat.Impact: Sealing the border would effectively close off the U.S. from one of its largest trading partners, and could leave American citizens who travel back and forth stuck in limbo.Conditions: Processing stations across the 1,900-mile border with Mexico were not expanded despite projections of the influx, and makeshift additions have been overwhelmed.One camp under a bridge in El Paso, Tex., which one volunteer described as resembling a “concentration camp,” was cleared out following an outcry over conditions there.In the aftermath of the live-streamed massacre in Christchurch, New Zealand, lawmakers in both countries are considering sweeping new policies that would restrict the kind of content permitted on social media platforms.If the two countries move ahead, their regulations could serve as models for the rest of the world amid growing frustration and anger with Silicon Valley giants.But the efforts walk a fine line between intervention and censorship. For established democracies that cherish free speech, China’s sophisticated system of suppressing online content could be seen as a cautionary tale.Over the weekend: Social media companies are themselves beginning to converge around the need for new rules. Mark Zuckerberg invited Congress to regulate Facebook and other social media networks in an opinion piece for The Washington Post. He suggested they focus on harmful content, election integrity, privacy and data portability.With around 900 million voters, almost 2,000 registered parties and five weeks of voting, the Indian elections can seem cacophonous. Even for your briefing writer, a diaspora Indian, they’re difficult to follow. The country’s myriad states, cultures and socioeconomic segments can’t be sliced into left or right, red or blue. It’s a kaleidoscope, and each prism illuminates a different aspect of the political spectrum.But it is also heartening to watch this young democracy exercising a right denied to many in the surrounding region. And it is important: What happens in India can end up shifting the global economy and geopolitical landscape.Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his right-wing Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party are seeking to retain power, facing a surging challenge by the opposition Congress Party. The briefing will be regularly unpacking aspects of the race. Voting unfolds from from April 11 until May 19 and results are announced on May 23.For now, keep in mind that the backdrop for the campaigning is a flammable mix of economic, religious and national security issues. Unemployment is high, sectarian violence has risen, farmers across the country are increasingly frustrated and there’s a broad disillusionment with politicians.Send us your feedback and any questions you have about the elections here.Taiwan: Two Chinese fighter jets crossed the self-ruled island’s maritime border, a move Taiwanese officials condemned as “provocative,” saying it “seriously impacted regional safety and stability.”Jeff Bezos: The Amazon founder’s security consultant accused the Saudi government of hacking Mr. Bezos’ phone, motivated by the aggressive coverage in The Washington Post, which Mr. Bezos also owns, of the murder of Jamal Khashoggi. The consultant provided no evidence but said he had turned his findings over to law enforcement.Boeing 737: Black box data from the doomed Ethiopian Airlines flight suggests that a faulty sensor that erroneously activated an automated stabilizing system on the jet caused the crash, a sequence also suspected in the crash of a Lion Air flight in October.Joe Biden: The former vice president, accused of touching and kissing a Nevada candidate just before appearing in support of her political campaign in 2014, released a statement saying he didn’t believe he acted inappropriately but admitted to making “expressions of affection” on the campaign trail. He is expected to announce whether he will run for president soon.Arctic drilling: A U.S. federal judge ruled that President Trump’s executive order to lift an Obama-era ban on oil and gas drilling in the Arctic Ocean was unlawful, keeping the drilling ban in “full force” and hindering Mr. Trump’s efforts to undo his predecessor’s environmental legacy.North Korea: The country said that a mysterious raid of its embassy in Madrid last month, led by a Mexican man who lives in the U.S., was a “grave terrorist attack” and a “flagrant violation of international law.”Afghanistan: The country’s vice president, Gen. Abdul Rashid Dostum, survived the latest in a series of Taliban attacks. The insurgent group’s list of grievances against the former warlord leads with the deaths of thousands of Taliban prisoners who surrendered to his forces in late 2001, many of whom suffocated in sealed trucks en route to prison.“Salvator Mundi”: The location of the famed painting attributed to Leonardo da Vinci has been a mystery since last year, shortly after a Saudi royal, most likely the crown prince, paid $450 million for it.The Kardashians: For more than a decade, the family has turned its feuding on reality TV into business opportunities. “People don’t know how much work goes into it,” the family matriarch, Kris Jenner, said in an interview with The Times.111 years young: Two British men, Alfred Smith and Bob Weighton, have lived through two world wars, more than 20 prime ministers and the entire rule of Queen Elizabeth II. Their advice for longevity? “Avoid dying,” and “porridge is helpful.”Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Alison Roman’s spicy noodle soup with mushrooms and herbs is a deeply flavored vegetarian dinner.Time management can only get you so far. The true key to productivity, according to Adam Grant, a Wharton School expert, is attention management.Hostels are the best way to travel cheaply all over the world.The Bauhaus art school celebrates the centennial of its founding today.The Modernist school (whose name comes from the German for “house building”) was among the first to combine the teaching of crafts, design, architecture and fine art.Walter Gropius, the architect who established the school in 1919 in Weimar, Germany, wrote in the Bauhaus’s program that the ultimate aim was the “unified work of art.”And he enlisted masters of various artistic disciplines, such as Wassily Kandinsky, Laszlo Moholy-Nagy and Paul Klee, to join the Bauhaus faculty.The school survived for little more than a decade before it was shut down in 1933 under pressure from the Nazis.But its legacy of uniting art and functional design in everyday life is long-lasting, and Bauhaus principles were spread worldwide.Anna Schaverien, from our London newsroom, wrote today’s Back Story.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.Alisha Haridasani Gupta writes the Morning Briefing.  @alisha__g 

Supported byBy Michael Schwirtz and Sheera FrenkelCampaigning for Ukraine’s presidential election had just begun to heat up when the authorities announced they had thwarted a Russian plot to use Facebook to undermine the vote.Unlike the 2016 interference in the United States, which centered on fake Facebook pages created by Russians in faraway St. Petersburg, the operation in Ukraine this year had a clever twist. It tried to circumvent Facebook’s new safeguards by paying Ukrainian citizens to give a Russian agent access to their personal pages.In a video confession published by the S.B.U., Ukraine’s domestic intelligence service, a man it identified as the Russian agent said that he resided in Kiev, Ukraine’s capital, and that his Russian handlers had ordered him “to find people in Ukraine on Facebook who wanted to sell their accounts or temporarily rent them out.”“As I learned,” said the man, who was not identified by name, “their goal was to use those accounts to publish political ads or to plant fake articles.”The operation suggested that Russia’s tactics had evolved somewhat over the last three years. The change, it seems, is partly a response to security measures adopted by Facebook after the 2016 campaign in the United States when, officials say, the social media company was used to widely disseminate disinformation and inflame partisan tensions.The question ahead of the election in Ukraine, scheduled for Sunday, is whether Facebook has evolved as well.The vote presents Facebook with an opportunity to take what it has learned and confront Russia over what the Kremlin considers its home turf. Ukraine has long been a testing ground for all manner of so-called Russian active measures, and was among the first hit with the kind of electoral manipulation later deployed against the United States, France and other countries.Facebook officials insist the company is ready. It fired an opening salvo in January when it announced the takedown of a coordinated effort involving nearly 150 fake accounts, which appeared to mimic a disinformation campaign by Russia’s Internet Research Agency during the 2018 midterm election campaign in the United States. On Tuesday, the company announced another takedown involving nearly 2,000 Russia-linked pages, groups and accounts, some involved in posting disinformation about Ukraine.But officials and candidates in Ukraine complain that despite some improvements, Facebook’s response to what should have been an obvious threat has been sluggish.A new tool meant to increase transparency around political advertising on Facebook came online only on March 18, less than two weeks before the election. Some candidates have said they found it difficult to protect their accounts with the company’s most basic security feature: the little blue check mark Facebook uses to help users distinguish genuine pages from impostors.“What they have done so far amounts to a dereliction of duty,” said Nina Jankowicz, a global fellow at the Washington-based Wilson Center’s Kennan Institute, who focuses on Russian disinformation.“They’ve known about the election in Ukraine this spring for years,” she said of Facebook officials. “There is no reason so many things should be happening last minute.”Although the personal account of Volodymyr Zelensky, the presidential front-runner, was verified quickly, the Facebook and Instagram pages for his campaign were not, Mr. Zelensky’s team said, despite its requests.Mikhail Fedorov, who handles digital strategy for Mr. Zelensky’s campaign, said its Facebook pages had been drowned out by fakes almost indistinguishable from the real site.Facebook representatives, he said, had been slow to respond when the campaign tried to report a problem. Facebook said it had removed pages impersonating Mr. Zelensky’s that were reported to the company.Out of frustration, Mr. Fedorov said, the campaign created its own anti-sabotage tool, which he called “a mobile online group,” that alerts Mr. Zelensky’s followers to the presence of a fake account and urges them to overwhelm it with supportive comments.Few doubt that Ukraine is in Russia’s cross hairs. Ahead of the election, activity has surged from Russian-linked bots and a proliferation of fake accounts impersonating the candidates, “aimed at the provoking of hostilities between Ukrainians in social networks,” Facebook in particular, said Serhii Demediuk, the chief of Ukraine’s cyber police. He said his office also had observed an uptick in requests on dark web forums for unauthorized remote access to Ukraine’s voter registry.“The analysis of these incidents indicates that a significant number of those publications are originating from the territory of the Russian Federation,” he said.No amount of security is 100 percent insurmountable, particularly against Russia, which has devoted enormous resources to its global disinformation efforts, said Nathaniel Gleicher, the head of cybersecurity policy at Facebook.“The threat actors are going to continue to innovate and try to find new ways to route around security that we put in place,” he said in an interview. “But each security protocol we put in place slows down the actors, forces them to work harder and gives your team more chances to catch them.”Far from reacting slowly to the threats facing Ukraine, he said, Facebook has been active in confronting disinformation campaigns emanating from Russia since at least April last year. That is when the company announced it had closed 135 Facebook and Instagram accounts controlled by Russia’s Internet Research Agency, which has been linked to the 2016 election tampering in the United States.The effort to pay Ukrainian citizens to host political advertisements and fake articles on their personal pages appeared tailor-made to circumvent new security measures designed to prevent foreigners from purchasing political advertisements in Ukraine and elsewhere.In his video confession, the man identified as the Russian agent, whose face was blurred to conceal his identity, said that the goal was to disseminate political advertisements in support of pro-Russian candidates as well as “publish fake news or kompromat” about candidates Moscow opposed.“The plan was for the culprit to manipulate the consciousness of the Ukrainian voters in the interest of the Kremlin,” the S.B.U. said in a statement about the case.An S.B.U. spokeswoman declined to provide further details. While Ukrainian officials are often quick to demonize Russia, the case aligns with what Facebook officials say will be the future of disinformation.Increasingly, Facebook officials say, disinformation will be spread not by foreign actors, but by citizens looking to sway the opinions of fellow citizens. Political parties will hire professional companies to spread false news about their opponents, using fake accounts and bots. And foreigners who want to meddle with a country’s elections will look to hire people locally, through bribery or trickery, to do their bidding.During the midterm elections in the United States, Facebook already faced some of those problems. Americans spread disinformation to fellow Americans, and a group of Democratic technical experts decided to experiment with swaying the Alabama Senate race.Some Ukrainian officials warn that the risk of disinformation campaigns from within the country are as high or higher than those directed by Russia.“I am more concerned with the negative campaigning from another candidate than from Russia,” said Aleksey Ryabchin, a member of Parliament from the party of Yulia Tymoshenko, another presidential candidate.By itself, Facebook can do little to completely insulate Ukraine from election interference. The country is under siege by Russia both on the internet and in the physical world. Russia essentially controls two separatist regions in eastern Ukraine, where a war that began in 2014 has claimed about 13,000 lives. In recent years, cyberattacks believed to have originated in Russia have shut down power plants and transportation infrastructure.During the last presidential election in 2014, hackers breached the servers of Ukraine’s election commission and programmed its website to publish a fake result when the polls closed. Ukrainian officials thwarted the scheme at the last minute, although Russian government television reported the fake result anyway.The Kremlin has denied involvement in efforts to manipulate elections in Ukraine or anywhere else, though officials have said they have no ability to prevent patriotic-minded Russians from attempting to do so.“These are the rules of the game. If it’s an open platform then of course there will be people who will try to use this platform for their purposes,” said Dmitry Polyanskiy, Russia’s first deputy permanent representative to the United Nations.“We can’t be responsible for any publication on Facebook or on Twitter,” he said, “and we do not believe in these conspiracy theories that somewhere people are sitting and clicking mice putting these publications on the web.”An earlier version of this article misspelled the surname of the person who handles digital strategy for the campaign of Volodymyr Zelensky, the front-runner in Ukraine’s election. He is Mikhail Fedorov, not Fedotov.

Supported byBy Chris Stanford(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning,We’re covering President Trump’s reversal of a longtime U.S. policy in the Middle East and a delay in Britain’s departure from the European Union. It’s also Friday, so there’s a new news quiz.Mr. Trump said on Thursday that the U.S. should recognize Israel’s authority over the long disputed Golan Heights, overturning decades of American policy in the Middle East.Mr. Trump’s announcement on Twitter came after persistent pressure from the Israeli prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, an ally who is fighting for his political life with an election scheduled for next month. While popular in Israel and among some U.S. lawmakers, Mr. Trump’s decision is likely to be condemned almost everywhere else. Catch up: The United Nations has rejected Israel’s occupation of the Golan Heights since 1967, when Israeli troops seized the 400 square miles from Syria during the Arab-Israeli War. Here’s a brief history of the dispute. What’s next: Practically speaking, Mr. Trump’s announcement doesn’t change much, as the status of the Golan Heights is not under negotiation, and there’s no expectation that Israel will withdraw. But symbolically, the decision shakes up a debate that has changed little since the 1970s.European Union officials agreed on Thursday to extend the deadline for Britain’s withdrawal from the bloc until May 22, as long as Prime Minister Theresa May can persuade Parliament to accept her plan for doing so. If she can’t — and lawmakers have already rejected her proposal twice — the deadline would be moved up to April 12.The agreement effectively averted a disorderly and chaotic departure at the end of next week, yet such a break remains a possibility.What’s next: Neither side wants Britain to leave without a deal. European Union officials said they remained open to a longer delay but that it would require Britain to participate in European Parliament elections — something that Mrs. May has said would be an absurdity.A week after the terrorist attack on two mosques that left 50 people dead, mourners from around the world gathered in Christchurch, New Zealand, today to share the Muslim call to prayer and two minutes of silence.“This terrorist sought to tear our nation apart with an evil ideology that has torn the world apart — but instead we have shown that New Zealand is unbreakable,” said Imam Gamal Fouda of Al Noor Mosque, one of the two attacked.Related: In addition to announcing a ban on the type of weapons used in the shooting, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern has pledged to hold social media companies accountable for letting hateful speech thrive on their platforms. As of Thursday, at least two people have been charged in New Zealand with spreading the killer’s video of part of the attack.The Daily: Today’s episode is about the speed with which New Zealand planned changes to its gun laws after the attack.The country’s national airline said today that it had asked to cancel an order of 737 Max 8 jets. It is the first publicly confirmed attempt to stop a deal since the planes were involved in two deadly crashes. A spokesman for the carrier, Garuda Indonesia, said that its passengers had lost confidence in the model. But he acknowledged that it would be difficult to cancel a signed agreement.Garuda’s deal was for 49 planes, and estimated to be worth $4.9 billion. A Boeing spokesman declined to comment.Another angle: Relatives of those killed when another airline’s Max 8 crashed in Indonesia say the airline tried to buy their silence with a deal that would also protect Boeing.Small countries, corporations and wealthy individuals have a new weapon at their disposal: privatized spying through companies that hire former intelligence operatives. A monthslong Times investigation found that the firms have enabled governments to hack not only terrorist groups and drug cartels, but also activists and journalists. Saudi Arabia, for instance, has used the Israeli firm NSO, pictured above, to track dissidents. U.S. casualties in Afghanistan: Two U.S. service members were killed in northern Afghanistan today, bringing to four the American combat deaths in the country this year, Afghan and American officials said.Cyclone’s aftermath: As floodwaters receded in Mozambique, people with very little before the storm found that they had even less. Here’s information about how to help people in southern Africa.U.S. flood warning: Nearly two-thirds of the lower 48 states will have an elevated risk of flooding until May, federal scientists have said. The Midwest has already confronted record-breaking late-winter floods. Deadly blast in China: An explosion that killed at least 47 people at a chemical factory has raised fears of poisons spreading in the air and water.Free speech on campus: President Trump has signed an executive order that links some higher education funds to how colleges enforce speech rights, a move endorsed by conservatives who say their voices have been silenced.Perspective: In an Op-Ed, James Comey, the former F.B.I. director, discusses what he would like to see in the special counsel’s report.Snapshot: Above, Holi celebrations in Amritsar, India, on Thursday. The Hindu festival marks the arrival of spring.N.C.A.A. basketball: Day 1 of the men’s tournament had scares but no dramatic upsets. Here’s the schedule for Day 2, as well as a look at the women’s tournament, which starts today.News quiz: Did you follow the headlines this week? Test yourself.Modern Love: In this week’s column, a woman wonders if traditional romance is a trap, and finds that the ordinary is the most romantic gesture of all.Late-night comedy: Seth Meyers is getting impatient for a certain former vice president to announce he’s running for president: “Joe Biden is the kid you played hide and seek with who would hide behind a sheer curtain. We see you.” What we’re reading: This essay in The New Yorker. Alisha Haridasani Gupta, a member of the briefings team, says: “Emilia Clarke plays Daenerys Targaryen, one of the strongest, most compelling characters in the ‘Game of Thrones’ series. Here, she reveals how through most of that era, she was struggling offscreen with near-death experiences from two aneurysms.” Cook: Drizzle tahini dressing on a bread salad with roasted squash. Listen: Holly Herndon’s “Eternal” is as propulsive as it is disorienting, writes Jon Pareles.Watch: We have ideas on what to stream based on how much time you have. Go: Martinique offers Caribbean warmth with French accents. Smarter Living: After one of our reporters described a week of plastic-free shopping, readers wrote in with more tips: reuse rather than toss plastic cutlery, keep a coffee mug and a water bottle at your desk, and find new uses for yogurt containers, like painting or composting.We also have a checklist to help you avoid screen-share disasters, and the cautionary tale of an extreme example.What do lichens and politics have in common?As you may remember from chemistry class, a litmus test determines a solution’s relative acidity. But the phrase is also used metaphorically to refer to a character-defining political issue, and it has been popping up in coverage of the race for the Democratic presidential nomination.The chemical test, in use since the Middle Ages, employs a dye derived from lichens to determine whether a solution is more acidic or alkaline.The political application of the phrase appeared in The Times at least as early as 1950, when it described NATO and the Marshall Plan as “the litmus test for distinguishing between Communists and supporters of the United States.”This year, “litmus test” has appeared in The Times to refer to marijuana legalization, the proposed border wall and universal health care.This week is the Times Magazine’s special Voyages Issue, featuring the travel guru Rick Steves, who wants to set you free.Enjoy the weekend. See you next time.— ChrisThank youTo Mark Josephson, Eleanor Stanford, James K. Williamson and John Dorman for the break from the news. Chris himself wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about New Zealand’s weapons ban.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Lead-in to X, Y or Z (3 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • Frank Sinatra was a lifelong fan of The Times crossword puzzle and became a pen pal of our third puzzle editor, Eugene T. Maleska.Chris Stanford is the writer of the U.S. edition of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles a weekly news quiz. He was previously a home page producer at The Times. Before 2013, he worked at The Washington Post and other news outlets.  @stanfordc 

Supported byAhead of two major shows, the painter Jonas Wood reflects on his early career — and the most unusual object in his studio.By Janelle ZaraJonas Wood’s East Hollywood studio — a refurbished industrial space hidden behind a razor-wired metal gate — is populated with the familiar objects that appear in his paintings. There are colonies of potted plants and basketball paraphernalia that ranges in size from plush couch cushions to man-sized orbs. Every room is filled with art, most notably by the ceramist Shio Kusaka, Wood’s studio mate and wife, and Kiki and Momo, their son and daughter. But the studio is where Wood culls various photographs from the internet or his own archive and uses them as source material for his paintings — they are printed out and pinned onto walls, then flattened and distilled into blocks of color. Wood then layers these dense graphic patterns, overlapping fields of stipples and stripes, circles, squares, dots and wood grains.[Coming later this spring: the T List newsletter, a weekly roundup of what T Magazine editors are noticing and coveting. Sign up here.]Thirteen years into his career, following a year and a half of preparation, Wood is finally wrapping up preparations for the two biggest shows he’s ever done: an exhibition of new work at Gagosian in New York, opening in late April, and a survey at the Dallas Museum of Art, opening this week — his first major solo museum exhibition. Admittedly, the prospect of facing works — landscapes, interiors and portraits of family and friends — from his early career was giving Wood “a hard time sleeping.” He wondered, “Are the old paintings horrible?” and “Did I used to be a better painter and now I’m worse?” During the installation of the show at the museum last week, he had two big realizations: “I wasn’t a hack, which is a big relief,” and that now, after more than a decade of steadily producing gallery shows, he might be ready to slow down.Nursing a can of tangerine-flavored LaCroix, Wood answered T’s Artist’s Questionnaire, which unearthed memories of the early days of his career, the first painting he ever sold — and the YouTube videos that nearly brought him to tears.What is your day like? How much do you sleep, and what’s your work schedule like?I drop the kids off at school, eat some breakfast, start working a little bit, usually have a meeting, have lunch and work for a couple hours in the afternoon. Maybe I’ll work for a couple hours at night. I’m trying to sleep more. In general, in the last couple of years, I’ve been trying to balance sleeping, eating, working, working out and spending time with the family. I’ve had my head down trying to make it as an artist since 2006, and I’ve had one or two shows a year for 12 years in a row. It’s not that I want to paint less, per se, but I want to take a step back.I’m talking about taking a step back and looking at what I’ve done, and taking a step back from the pace that I was running and changing gears. After these two exhibitions, I don’t have any booked shows coming up. It’s a big opportunity for me to rearrange the way I spend my time. I love to paint and I want to paint, but I don’t have to paint right now, this second, and I don’t have to paint all next week and miss four school events.How many hours of creative work do you think you do in a day?Every day, I’m super into it. I need to paint. If I go away for a couple weeks, I’ll just draw. It’s like a must for my mental health. I would have to say that I’ve been all-in on painting since I was younger, and I realized that it was because of a lot of fear that it would all go away. That’s not how I want to paint in the future. The pressure and psychology of that setup isn’t totally right. I would like to build bodies of work outside the calendar schedule of art fairs and shows for a little while. I love painting, and I think I can paint without having a giant carrot in front of me. I don’t think that I’m the best at painting, and I want to get better at it.What’s the first piece of art you ever made?The first painting I really cared about was probably when I was a teenager, maybe 13 or 14 years old.What’s the worst studio you ever had?The freezing-cold basement of my parents’ house on Martha’s Vineyard. Winter of 2002.What’s the first work you ever sold? For how much?I sold a painting after college for $1,000, before grad school.When you start a new piece, where do you begin? What’s the first step?I think there’s a certain amount of avoidance. I like to have things sit around for a while before it’s go time. I find a photograph that I like, and then I usually make drawings. Maybe half the time I paint from the drawings and the other half from photographs. I use the photo for the structure of the painting; I project out different shapes, trace it out, mix the colors and build an image, like a flat map, and then I paint all the details on top. I like to have things just starting and just finishing and everywhere in between. I like to wake up and have choices to gravitate to.How do you know when you’re done?You know after a lot of looking.How many assistants do you have?Two.What music do you play when you’re making art?Mostly basketball podcasts. I listen to Howard Stern three days a week. Reggae, lots of eras of hip-hop, a variety of rock ’n’ roll.When did you first feel comfortable saying you’re a professional artist?I was a slow learner and a late bloomer in painting. I didn’t really put it all together until 2006. I had a show at Black Dragon Society. I made $29,000, I quit my job, and after 2006, I was a full-time painter. Making a living from being an artist and not having to do anything else usually changes a lot — something happens, sometimes it’s good, sometimes it’s bad, right? But you spend all your time doing it. You’re dedicated.Are you bingeing on any shows right now?Oh yeah. “Crashing,” “Million Dollar Listing,” “Vanderpump Rules.”What’s the weirdest object in your studio?This giant basketball is a sculpture by Paa Joe, a 72-year-old Ghanaian artist. Look him up. He makes fantasy coffins that are in most major museum collections. This was commissioned; I wanted a giant Spalding basketball, and I told him the colors and everything. I didn’t get a coffin because my wife thought it would be too morbid, so we got a throne. It’s actually called a palanquin, and you carry people around in it.How do you get your news?I just started listening to these quick little podcasts that The New York Times does. I read The New York Times. I go to CNN a little bit and check out some weirder news, like serial-killer names and stuff like that.What do you do when you’re procrastinating?Play poker with friends. What’s the last thing that made you cry?It’s hilarious that this made me cry: The kids wanted to watch N.B.A. players flying into the stands trying to get out-of-bounds balls. I was like, “This is so cool that they’re so into basketball.” Even thinking about it makes me — it’s like happy crying. Positive. These kids want to see replays of Shaq, who’s seven feet tall, flying into the stands. You should watch it.What do you usually wear when you work?Gym shorts and a T-shirt, or some sort of long, funky pants. I like to feel super comfortable.What do you buy in bulk with the most frequency?LaCroix. I’ve got a variety of favorite flavors.What do you pay for rent?We don’t pay rent. We own the building.Do you exercise?We have a little gym. I would like to say that I’m fat and I’m also fit at the same time. I have a routine. VersaClimber and a lot of bands to strengthen the buttocks.What’s your favorite artwork by someone else?I love that Picasso goat he made out of bronze, where he uses a basket for the goat’s tummy. It’s one of the great bronze sculptures.This interview has been edited and condensed.An earlier version of this article misstated where Jonas Wood and his family reside. They live on the Westside of Los Angeles, not in an apartment above his studio. The article also gave an incorrect opening date for Wood’s exhibition at the Dallas Museum of Art; it was March 24, not March 29.Janelle Zara is a freelance journalist specializing in art, design and architecture.  @janellezara 

Supported byThese married architects are democratizing the 3-D printing process, using materials destined for the trash heap — like curry powder and coffee grounds — in place of drywall and foam. By Patricia Leigh BrownOAKLAND, Calif. — On a bone-chilling day here with the winter rains pelting down, the architects Ronald Rael and Virginia San Fratello retreated to their cozy 3-D printed cabin in the backyard.A wall of moist succulents on the facade was springing to luxuriant life, embedded in rosette-patterned tiles 3-D printed from chardonnay grape skins, sawdust and cement. Raindrops pitter-pattered across 3-D-fabricated ceramic shingles.Inside, a translucent bioplastic wall with cloudlike swirls — yes, also 3-D printed — changed colors on demand as Mr. Rael, with a clicker, shifted the hues from pink to green to purple, bathing the interior in otherworldly light.It was just another weekend for the couple, 3-D printing pioneers who have developed novel techniques for sustainable building, often using low-cost waste materials like mud, dirt, nutshells, coffee grounds, and other discards that are “essentially free,” Ms. San Fratello said. Along the way, they have made 3-D printing cheaper and more accessible, often relying on lightweight printers to fabricate architectural components that can be assembled into large structures. These include the “Cabin of Curiosities” prototype in their backyard.  Ms. San Fratello and Mr. Rael “create complex and fantastic forms that couldn’t happen any other way,” said Ellen Lupton, senior curator of contemporary design at the Cooper Hewitt, Smithsonian Design Museum, which included their work last year in its show, “The Senses: Design Beyond Vision,” and acquired a “Furry Curry Casserole” 3-D printed from curry powder. “They have the hybrid brain of an architect, an alchemist and a pastry chef,” Ms. Lupton added. Their work has been included in the permanent collections of the Museum of Modern Art, the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, as well as the Cooper Hewitt.Mr. Rael and Ms. San Fratello, 47, are evangelists for the 3-D cause: He is a professor of architecture and art practice at the University of California, Berkeley; she is an associate professor of design at San Jose State. Their studio, Rael San Fratello, produces elegant and slightly oddball designs inspired by ancient craft traditions, like coiled pottery. Though the forms are drawn from indigenous sources, the production of 3-D printed tiles and other components is anything but. Mr. Rael and Ms. San Fratello deploy a variety of printing methods, often using a process invented at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology called “binder jetting” that consists of a liquid material being sprayed onto a thin layer of powder hundreds or thousands of times until a hardened object emerges. The two also invented a software application for a 3-D printer that extrudes wet clay, pushing it through a nozzle like a gigantic toothpaste tube.A series of clay vessels called “Bad Ombrés” was produced by this extrusion method: the name alludes both to President Trump’s comment about Mexicans and a term for the gradual blending of one color into another. Like much of the pair’s work, the vessels marry artisanship and geekiness. The clay is built up layer by layer, producing striated patterns and surfaces resembling knitting, complete with knots and loops. Occasionally, the code will tell the printer to drop a stitch, which creates visual drama.As they document in “Printing Architecture: Innovative Recipes for 3D Printing,” published last year, mud is dear to their hearts. Mr. Rael grew up in an adobe house built by his great-grandfather in a small Hispanic village in the San Luis Valley of Colorado. His youthful playgrounds were adobe dwellings in varying states of decay. “I was fascinated with the cactuses growing on roofs, the rays of light and dust,” he said.They met in 1995 on their first day of architecture school at Columbia University, and traveled to Yemen to explore the ancient walled city of Shibam, a dense cluster of ancient mud-brick buildings often called “the city of skyscrapers in the desert.” Their design for a 3-D printed free-standing adobe structure is currently on view in the exhibition “New Cities, Future Ruins at the Border” at the Rubin Center for the Visual Arts at the University of Texas at El Paso (through April 6).It is also the product of an unusual cross-border collaboration. Accompanied by their 9-year-old son, Mattias, as well as ceramics students, architects, professors and community members, they lead clay scouting expeditions, shovels and buckets at the ready, pinpointing, say, a patch behind a Subway shop in Texas or a Juarez brick factory. For the project “Zoquetes Fronterizos” (Mud Frontiers) the students learned to shovel mud into 3-D printers, building circular adobe structures on a mesa overlooking Juarez. The border has been a recurring theme in their work. Mr. Rael wrote “Borderwall as Architecture: A Manifesto for the U.S.-Mexico Boundary” (2017) on alternatives to President Trump’s wall, most serious but some fanciful. They have created a poster, called “Reunite,” about family separations at the border, that has been turned into a billboard at Amsterdam Avenue and 110th Street in Manhattan by For Freedoms, an arts nonprofit. But it is the pair’s status as the Lewis and Clark of the digital frontier that has impressed the techno cognoscenti. “Instead of paying $600 for 30 pounds of standard materials that come with printers, we said ‘Hey, let’s use salt!’” Ms. San Fratello explained. Their spinoff company, Emerging Objects, has recently worked with 3D Potter on a new type of printer to develop low-cost housing using adobe.“They refused to accept the proprietary materials being sold by 3-D printer companies,” said Joshua G. Stein, a professor at Woodbury University in Burbank and co-director of Data Clay, an online database dedicated to ceramics and emerging technologies. “They said, let’s just hack the ingredients and see what we can do.” The international roster of designers engaged in the 3-D process, known as “additive manufacturing,” is expanding. Among the most high-profile is Joris Laarman of the Netherlands, who started his own robotics company and whose swooping, technically complex metal furniture has fetched hundreds of thousands of dollars at auction. The DFAB House in Zurich, a collaboration between the Swiss National Center of Competence in Research and university professors, also pushes the digital building frontier. The architecture was robotically assembled and features a free-form 3-D printed “smart slab” ceiling that is half the weight of concrete.Mr. Rael and Ms. San Fratello are committed to democratizing the process for their young acolytes and others, making the point that 3-D printing from “upcycled” materials otherwise destined for the trash heap, and forgoing the purchase of drywall and other construction supplies, is a more sustainable design approach. Ingredients like curry and coffee grounds not only lower the cost, they add a dash of poetry, retaining their aroma long after being transformed.To spend time at Mr. Rael’s graduate “print FARM” — the Facility for Architecture, Research and Materials at the U.C. Berkeley College of Environmental Design, is to feel a bit like Lewis Carroll’s Alice as she took her first nibble on the mushroom. It is to encounter a gray “Seat Slug” printed from cement. A light-as-a-feather, star-shaped “Poof” from tires that were pulverized and freeze-dried. It is to wonder about strange-looking squiggles resembling black licorice shoelaces.“That’s a failure,” Mr. Rael said of the bioplastic building material meant to turn snow into patterns on buildings.Some of the most mesmerizing projects are the couple’s collaborations with scientists. These include ceramic units for seeding coral larvae, spearheaded by Secore, a conservation organization that restores coral reefs. Scuba divers have already placed these microhabitats —- which have little legs and look as if they might skitter across the sea bottom — in endangered reefs. The 3-D printing allows quick replication. Ms. San Fratello and Mr. Rael have also worked with conservationists on ceramic nesting modules for the stocky seabirds known as Cassin’s auklets, off the California coast. (The nests have to accommodate the weight of lolling sea lions, and a private compartment for adults away from their boisterous chicks.)At home, Ms. San Fratello and Mr. Rael keep a 3-D printer on the dining room table and use it to produce the occasional Captain Underpants figurine for Mattias. Their devotion to the 3-D process, they say, is the connection it provides between the designer and the machine, a relationship lost with mass production. Their mission is to create objects and structures that are beautiful — and resolutely human.“There is a culture embedded in the materials that surround us,” Mr. Rael observed. “We’ve lost the intimacy with materials, their tactility. How can you be intimate with foam?”

Supported byThe InterpreterBy Max Fisher and Amanda TaubLast month, an aid worker in Myanmar named Khon Ja flipped through her Facebook feed and noticed something was missing. Something important.A page run by a rebel group that controls a stretch of jungle-covered territory near China’s border, known as the Ta’ang National Liberation Army, had disappeared.Its reports on the location and severity of fighting no longer appeared on Facebook. Neither did its posts on the welfare of civilians under its control.Ms. Khon Ja, who works to protect civilians from the ravages of Myanmar’s decades-long civil war, had come to rely on the Facebook page, which might reveal, say, battle lines edging toward a village.“Sometimes we need to evacuate people,” she said. Other times, her team could at least warn local families to take cover, and send money for blankets and medicine.Reporters are largely blocked from conflict areas in Myanmar, and government accounts are considered unreliable. The rebels’ accounts, too, had to be read with a skeptical eye, but did offer valuable, real-time updates of what was happening on the ground.Like many in Myanmar, the rebels communicated with the public largely through Facebook — until the social network said no more.When Ms. Khon Ja tried to find out why the Ta’ang National Liberation Army had gone silent, she learned that it was among four rebel groups in Myanmar that Facebook had decided to ban. Not only did it take down a host of pages, but it also prohibited users from posting words of praise or support for the rebels.“We don’t want the platform to be used to normalize or further the goals of these groups,” said Rafael Frankel, Facebook’s policy director for Southeast Asia.Mr. Frankel cited reports that the guerrillas had attacked civilians, backed up by independent rights groups, and said removing their posts was meant to curb their ability to organize or encourage violence.The bans are the latest sign of Facebook’s growing power in many countries, where its control over the flow of information and public discourse makes it akin to national broadcaster, public utility and political regulator all rolled into one.And they are the latest test of Facebook’s ability to wield that power responsibly.But Facebook’s intervention has brought unintended consequences that have troubled humanitarian groups and conflict experts in Myanmar.The bans, they say, have swept up pages crucial for protecting some of the country’s most vulnerable communities. And some worry that they will further tilt control of information about the conflict toward the military, which rights groups consider to be guilty of far graver atrocities than the rebels.Senator Edward J. Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts, sent a letter to Facebook saying he was “deeply troubled” by the bans. He called the groups’ Facebook presence “important to broader efforts at a lasting peace” and warned that their removal would disrupt efforts by humanitarian groups and by international conflict observers, “including the United States.”Ms. Khon Ja, crediting the platform’s reach in Myanmar’s conflict zones with helping to save lives, said, “Facebook is very important for us.” Without pages like that of the Ta’ang rebels, she worried, it could become harder to shield civilians from violence.“By the time that real fighting occurs, it’s very difficult to evacuate,” she said. “We have to wait until everything finishes, and we lose a lot.”Facebook’s ubiquity has made it an essential tool for liberation movements and terrorist groups the world over. But the line between those two is not always clear. Even governments and courts struggle with the unenviable task of determining which is which.Facebook’s growth-obsessed business model, which brought in tens of billions of dollars in revenue last year, means the company increasingly grapples with that question, too, as it dominates new markets, many of which are politically volatile.“The militarization of Facebook,” said Nicola Williams, an analyst at the Asia Foundation, “will continue to be an ethical and regulatory issue for Facebook.”Stakes are high in many countries, where nascent democracies and fragile conflicts hang in the balance, but especially in Myanmar. The military there has been accused of hair-raising atrocities against minorities, including genocide against ethnic Rohingya. After decades of conflict and suspicion, separating hero from villain is rarely easy.Myanmar’s rebel groups, many of which purport to represent one of the country’s persecuted ethnic minorities, pose an especially difficult case.Many are bands of insurgents who extort money from civilians and conscript them. Sometimes they kill them.But some act as de facto governments in the territories they control. To their supporters, they are “leaders of their ethnic minority’s effort to achieve greater recognition and rights,” according to a 2017 Amnesty International report, as well as “protectors from the Myanmar Army,” which has been credibly accused of genocide.Facebook cannot always separate out those roles.In imposing the bans, Facebook went against a report that the company itself commissioned last year on its human rights impact in Myanmar. The report, assembled by the consulting firm BSR, warned that banning armed ethnic groups could censor “legitimate expressions of opposition or dissent” as well as “content that is intended to expose human rights violations, rather than encourage them.”Facebook said that it broke with the report’s recommendations because the company determined that removing the groups outright would most effectively curb violence. Mr. Frankel said the ultimate goal was “making our platform safe.”Facebook also briefly shuttered the official page of rebel groups’ peace negotiators. Amid a backlash from activists, who warned that the decision would disrupt peace talks, the company reinstated the page.Some unintended consequences may be difficult to avoid.Among the four groups Facebook banned last month was the Arakan Army, a particularly vicious rebel outfit. The social network moved against the rebels after they attacked a string of police stations.But Arakan Army officers had used Facebook’s messenger service to coordinate with aid groups, a now-closed line of communication that Ms. Khon Ja called crucial for steps like reuniting former child soldiers with their parents.But of all the pages Facebook removed, none alarmed activists as much as the closing of Laiza TV. It is mostly known as a radio station and video-filled Facebook page, both widely followed in Myanmar’s Kachin State.Many members of the Kachin ethnic minority support the Kachin Independence Army, and Laiza tends to do so, also. Facebook said that this was why it removed the page.But Laiza also conveyed day-to-day news from the war-torn region, where government accounts are unreliable and most media cannot go.Gum San Nsang, the president of the Kachin Alliance, a diaspora group based in Washington, said that the Facebook ban had cut off information about the tens of thousands of Kachin who, as a result of the fighting, live in camps and rely on groups abroad for help.“We don’t know what’s happening, we don’t know the latest on displaced people, we don’t even know the weather,” he said, referring to the tendency of floods or landslides to displace vulnerable communities. “Facebook is the only thing we have to keep in touch.”A battle or disease outbreak might prompt a torrent of donations, but only if the news can get out. Outlets like Laiza rely on Facebook because it is the only online tool that is both widely available and cannot easily be hacked by the government.Ashley South, a researcher who studies Myanmar’s conflicts, said Facebook’s bans had cut off thousands of civilians from a diaspora that “has allowed this community to survive.”“I was really appalled when I read the news about Facebook’s ban,” Mr. South said. “I’m quite angry about it.”The page’s popularity also made it a hub for notices about missing persons or families split apart in the fighting. The far more popular radio station remains online, but activists said that many reunions might not have been possible without the Facebook page.Naw Bu, Laiza’s head, said Facebook had given him no advance notice or explanation. He said his outlet was not affiliated with the rebels. And its reports, he said, provided important information about the region, including its growing measles problem.“The impact only goes to innocent people,” Mr. Naw Bu said. “It’s sad.”The Interpreter is a column by Max Fisher and Amanda Taub exploring the ideas and context behind major world events. Follow them on Twitter @Max_Fisher and @amandataub.Paul Mozur contributed reporting from Shanghai, and Saw Nang from Mandalay, Myanmar.

