Supported byFrugal TravelerFinding the lowest airfare has become a favorite frugal pastime, and there are websites to help you nail down cheap fares. Some strategies, however, are dicey.By Elaine GlusacBetween bargain-shopping travelers and airlines flashing ephemeral prices, searching for the lowest airfares can feel like a game of cat and mouse. Sometimes, the game carries real-world risks, including the recent news that Lufthansa is suing a passenger who the airline contends intentionally skipped a flight leg using a largely prohibited budget-booking practice known as hidden city.Bargain hunting has led to a rise in cheap travel websites and rules of thumb for booking, such as flying at off-peak times and on slower days.“People would like a simple rule, but in practice there isn’t a single day or time to buy,” said Patrick Surry, the chief data scientist for Hopper, an airfare prediction app. Factors most impacting airfares, he said, are “the day you travel, how long you stay and the airport you’re flying.” How far in advance you book can also determine the price you pay.Airfares reflect the adage that time is money; for bargain-hunters the less money you spend, the more time you’re likely to spend in the airport. Hopper found that fliers can save 5 percent on airfares by changing from direct to one-stop fares, and 2 percent above that for moving from a one- to a two-stop ticket. Of course, those non-direct fares will mean spending more time stuck in airports. Long layovers will also save you money: A layover of more than 12 hours means an average of a 6-percent savings on your airfare.Having flexibility in travel is one sure way to get the best fare. Many search engines, including Kayak and Hopper, allow users to register for price-alert tracking that recommends whether to buy now or wait for future price drops. The app HitList allows users to track a route with unspecified dates or lengths of travel.Other booking ploys, surveyed below, may or may not get you into trouble with the airlines.Hidden city fares are one-way tickets through a connecting city where passengers intentionally stay in the layover city. For example, a flier from New York City to San Francisco may find it cheaper to book a one-stop flight to Seattle connecting through San Francisco, disembark there and not take the last leg to Seattle. The practice is known as skiplagging.Finding these fares required a lot of scattershot searching and knowledge of airline competition until the website Skiplagged.com automated it in 2013. Its founder, Aktarer Zaman, was sued for deception by United Airlines and the online travel agency Orbitz in 2015, but that lawsuit was dismissed based on jurisdiction, and the website is still going strong.Clearly, airlines don’t like skiplagging, which prevents them from selling the empty seat. Delta, United and American now explicitly ban exploiting fare rules in their contracts of carriage. For example, American Airlines states that “reservations made to exploit or circumvent fare and ticket rules are strictly prohibited.” This includes purchasing a ticket “without intending to fly all flights to gain lower fares (hidden city).”Some also argue the practice is unethical. “For every dollar someone scams, and I do think it’s a scam, that dollar is going to be placed back into the airfare structure of the airlines that everyone else pays,” said George Hobica, the founder of Airfarewatchdog.com, a site that monitors airfare deals.Mr. Zaman looks at the practice differently. “When you go to the store and buy a bag of chips, is it unethical to finish only half of it?” Mr. Zaman said. He notes that Skiplagged.com is for the average American flier — who flies two times a year, according to the trade association Airlines for America — not for someone who intends to book hidden city routes often.“Our mission is to make it easier to experience the world,” Mr. Zaman added. “We make flying more accessible, so we’re fighting against price discrimination and the way airlines try to take advantage of everybody.”Some airlines would beg to disagree. In the recent Lufthansa litigation, the airline sued a passenger, claiming a contract violation when he skipped the last leg of his flight on a one-stop ticket from Seattle to Oslo via Frankfurt. The airline’s conditions of carriage stipulate that a fare is only valid if flown in the booked order (the order of flights listed in the itinerary), according to a spokeswoman for Lufthansa. Many flight hacks are termed hacker fares, but Kayak popularized the term used in its search results on round-trip queries to show two one-way tickets, often on competing airlines, at rock-bottom prices.For example, a recent search for fares from Chicago to Los Angeles turned up nonstop round trips on United from $321, versus $275 with an outbound on Delta and a return on American. Round-trip prices for the same itinerary turned up fares of $372 on Delta and $312 on American, both more expensive than that $275 combination of two one-way fares.“Hacker fares are what Kayak does to discover cheapness, but also more diversity in results in terms of flight schedules,” Giorgos Zacharia, the chief technology officer at Kayak, said. “Domestically, if you fly out with one airline and return with a different one you can create a lot of savings.”Other search engines will also show one-way ticketing results for savings. Skyscanner, for example, calls them mash-ups. In most cases, fliers must click out of the search engines and into booking ones — either an online travel agency or the airline itself — and make the two bookings in quick succession to ensure the deal doesn’t disappear.Sometimes a ticket purchased from within a foreign country costs less than the same airfare in the United States. That’s because airlines price their flights based on competitive factors in local markets, including the wealth of consumers and their willingness to fly.Airline search engines can tell where you reside based on your computer’s internet Protocol or I.P. address. Users can mask that address by subscribing to a VPN or Virtual Private Network, which allows you to search anonymously (plans at NordVPN, one provider, start at $2.99 a month). Some travel strategists believe this works.From my own experiment comparing search results for international flights using a VPN and an internet address in Chicago, I got mixed results. Using the VPN, Air China asked me to identify my country and language, and then gave me the same $739 search result for a flight between San Francisco and Beijing that I found when using my office computer. However, when I searched for internal flights in a foreign country — flights between Buenos Aires, for example, and Bariloche in Argentina — I found the same itinerary for $302 on my office computer in Chicago versus $249 (after converting from pesos) using the VPN (in this instance, one would want to buy any foreign ticket using a credit card without exchange fees).VPNs are legal in the United States. Though often associated with dark uses of the web, they can also protect you when using free public Wi-Fi.An easier approach may be to use a foreign travel agent. Tierra Hotels, which operates lodges in Chile’s Atacama Desert, Patagonia and Lakes regions, often refers North American guests to the Santiago-based travel agency Cocha for flights from the capital to its properties. Cocha recently found round-trip tickets between Santiago and Punta Arenas in Patagonia for $262 versus results I received searching Latam Airlines from my office in Chicago at $324.Open-jaw tickets, often called multi-stop bookings on airline sites, are for round-trip flights that arrive at one destination and leave from another. For example, you may wish to fly from New York to London, then take the Eurostar train to continental Europe and later fly back home from Paris.Open jaws can save you money, especially on international itineraries as one-way flights outside the United States are often costly. Most airlines and search engines offer multi-stop search options, making the practice easy.Better yet, use open-jaw fares to expand your airport searches to get more results. While both are London airports, flying into Heathrow and back from Gatwick, for example, is technically an open-jaw booking. To ensure you get results from all possible combinations, search using a generic destination like London or an option for any airport in the area rather than a specific airport, bearing in mind that budget airlines often use secondary airports.A recent search for flights between London and Paris, cities with multiple airports, turned up a round-trip fare of $182 on British Airways, flying from London City Airport to Charles de Gaulle Airport in Paris and returning to Heathrow, versus $197 on an Air France flight between Heathrow and Charles de Gaulle. One of the cheapest fares was on the low-cost carrier easyJet: $170 round trip, from Charles de Gaulle to Heathrow, and back to Paris from London Southend Airport.HIDDEN CITY FARES Most airlines prohibit exploiting these pricing loopholes, though few have prosecuted.HACKER FARES Another term for two one-way tickets and perfectly legal.RESIDENT FARES Masking your computer’s address to get fares reserved for local residents may not be illegal but it is technically complex. Try using a foreign travel agent.OPEN-JAW TICKETS A good approach for surveying itinerary and pricing options.Follow NY Times Travel on Twitter, Instagram and Facebook. Get weekly updates from our Travel Dispatch newsletter, with tips on traveling smarter, destination coverage and photos from all over the world.

Supported byBy David M. Halbfinger and Ronen BergmanNAHAL OZ, Israel — Benny Gantz, Israel’s former army chief, is campaigning to lead his country as the clean, moral alternative to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who faces indictment in a corruption scandal.But less than a month before the election, Mr. Gantz found himself fielding seamy-sounding questions late Friday about whether he had committed adultery, opened himself up to possible extortion or sandbagged his political allies to advance his own career.The awkward news appearance here at a kibbutz near the Gaza Strip followed a report on Israeli television that Mr. Gantz’s cellphone had been hacked by Iranian intelligence after his entry into politics in December and that personal and professional information had been stolen.Mr. Gantz retired from the military in 2015, so the issue is not whether classified information might now be in enemy hands, but that he could be vulnerable to blackmail if elected. The hack threatened to set back his bid, which polls have shown has the strongest chance of any opposition politician to depose Mr. Netanyahu. With rumors flying about what might have been harvested from Mr. Gantz’s cellphone, his party, the Blue and White, issued a statement saying the stolen data included “no security information, no embarrassing videos, and he was never a target of blackmail.”That was not enough to put a lid on the speculation, however, and so the laconic Mr. Gantz, whose campaign strategy has entailed saying as little as possible, hastily arranged his first news conference.His backdrop was the Gaza border, where a wave of Israeli airstrikes hit early Friday after two Hamas rockets had reached Tel Aviv for the first time since the summerlong war of 2014. That allowed Mr. Gantz, who prosecuted that war as army chief, to try to shame the Israeli press into focusing on more sober matters.“We are here in a story of an ongoing security event,” Mr. Gantz said, glowering in front of a barbed-wire fence, to dozens of journalists who had trekked the hour from Tel Aviv or Jerusalem shortly before the start of the Sabbath. “And in the reality we are in, someone suddenly broke some political, gossipy and completely delusional story.”Given that his party’s statement said there were no videos, he was asked, might there be embarrassing photos or correspondence? “I’m not going to stoop to that place,” he said, calling it “unethical nosiness.”Did he ever have a relationship with a woman that could be the basis for extortion? another reporter ventured. “I’m not subject to extortion under any circumstances,” he said, again refusing to go there.Mr. Gantz’s centrist Blue and White party is leading Mr. Netanyahu’s Likud in the polls in terms of the number of Parliament’s 120 seats it is expected to win. But the prime ministership is determined based on which leader can forge a majority governing coalition, a measure on which Mr. Gantz and his partners trail the incumbent and his right-wing allies.On Friday, Mr. Gantz flatly accused the prime minister of being “behind the reports about the telephone.”Mr. Gantz was informed of the hacking in early February by the Shin Bet, Israel’s domestic security service. That was before he joined forces with Yair Lapid, a former finance minister whose Yesh Atid party was trailing Mr. Gantz in the polls. Mr. Lapid agreed to let Mr. Gantz sit at the top of the ticket under an agreement that would have them swap the prime ministership midstream if they win.But Mr. Gantz did not apprise Mr. Lapid of the Iranian hack before striking that deal. In fact, Blue and White party officials said on Friday, Mr. Lapid and the two other former army chiefs of staff running alongside Mr. Gantz, Moshe Yaalon and Gabi Ashkenazi, were not informed of the breach until shortly before Thursday’s television report.Asked why he had not apprised his political brethren sooner, Mr. Gantz was dismissive. “Yair and the others aren’t relevant to this story,” he said.None of his three comrades, who have routinely campaigned alongside Mr. Gantz, joined him at the late-Friday news conference — though all three publicly echoed his contention that Mr. Netanyahu, who oversees the Shin Bet, had orchestrated the leak to damage him.Mr. Lapid said Mr. Netanyahu’s “use of sensitive security material to try to smear Benny Gantz proves he is scared of him.” And Mr. Yaalon told a TV interviewer that Mr. Netanyahu wanted to distract attention from the criminal cases in which he is accused of bribery, fraud and breach of trust.The prime minister’s office said that the chief of the Shin Bet, who reports directly to Mr. Netanyahu, had not briefed him or his aides about the hacking. His Likud party denied any hand in the leak.A security official involved in the matter said that Iran’s Ministry of Intelligence and Security, which has been engaged in a long-running spy-vs.-spy battle with Israel’s Mossad on multiple continents, had hacked Mr. Gantz’s phone and was behind a series of other cyber attacks against Israel.The incident was reminiscent of one early in Mr. Netanyahu’s rise to power. In 1993, he admitted to having an extramarital affair after he said anonymous rivals had threatened to release a compromising videotape. No tape was ever produced, and Mr. Netanyahu accused an archrival of being behind the scandal.David M. Halbfinger reported from Nahal Oz, Israel, and Ronen Bergman from Tel Aviv.

Supported byEven if it is never released, the public already knows enough.By Caroline FredricksonMs. Fredrickson is the president of the American Constitution Society.People lie to hide the truth. They lie to hide crimes. And while everyone is dying for a peek at Robert Mueller’s bombshell report to see if he says any crimes were committed by the Trump campaign in 2016, the truth is actually already out there, hidden in plain sight.Mr. Mueller’s report may never go public, but we don’t need a peek at the recommendations he delivered on Friday to Attorney General William Barr to credibly assess that something unethical and likely illegal went on in 2016. The repeated lies told by Trump campaign staff members — lies about their connections to Russian figures — already spin a grand tale of conspiracy and deceit. And it’s a tale so suspect and sordid that President Trump and his associates felt the need to lie to hide it from law enforcement.This is not conjecture; some of Mr. Trump’s people are already in jail, having been convicted in federal court for lying to investigators about their connections to and interactions with Russians during the 2016 campaign. Others have pleaded guilty to similar crimes, which — it bears repeating — is what one does when presented with overwhelming evidence of one’s guilt. Still others await trial. Many more have been indicted.There’s the top Trump campaign official Paul Manafort, who is serving time for lying about his history of lobbying for Russian interests and sharing Trump campaign polling data with a Russian intelligence asset during the campaign.And there’s the close Trump associate Roger Stone, recently indicted on charges of lying about communications he had with Wikileaks before it released damaging information about Hillary Clinton that law enforcement believes was stolen by Russian hackers.The former Trump lawyer Michael Cohen is headed to jail after admitting that he lied to Congress about a business deal Mr. Trump was pursuing with Russian figures throughout the 2016 campaign, lies Mr. Trump himself echoed on the campaign trail.Michael Flynn, the president’s former national security adviser, will soon be doing time after admitting to making false statements to the F.B.I. to conceal December 2016 communications with Russia regarding the sanctions on Russia imposed by the Obama administration.Lastly, there is George Papadopoulos, a foreign policy adviser to the campaign, who arguably helped precipitate the investigation when he bragged about his knowledge of Russian “dirt” on Mrs. Clinton to an Australian diplomat who then alerted the F.B.I. Mr. Papadopoulos subsequently pleaded guilty to lying to the F.B.I. and served time in prison.Then there is the president himself.From the outset, Mr. Trump’s approach to the Mueller investigation has been characterized by paranoia and fear. With his increasingly shrill denials, the president comes across more as someone who fears he will be found out than someone convinced of his innocence.And he has lied to the American people.The president’s version of events regarding his campaign’s interactions with Russia has changed repeatedly since the investigation began. From early assertions during his campaign that he had no business interests in Russia, to claims about his role in issuing false statements about the infamous Trump Tower meeting with Russians, the president has been caught in numerous, verifiable lies on this issue. It just remains to be seen whether he lied to cover up actual criminal activity, including conspiring with a foreign power to sway an election, or working to obstruct investigations into those ties.Ideally, Mr. Barr will share Mr. Mueller’s report with the country. But if he elects to withhold it, President Trump will no doubt claim victory. He will no doubt treat the absence of an indictment as full vindication. But here’s a truth for the president: He was never going to be indicted. The Department of Justice has a longstanding policy against indicting a sitting president, and the absence of an indictment does not mean no evidence of conspiracy or obstruction was found.Indeed, Mr. Mueller’s report may not be the end of the president’s legal peril, only the beginning. That’s because report or no report, through his prosecutions, referrals, indictments, convictions and subpoenas, Mr. Mueller has already provided the House of Representative with some very clear paths for investigation. So even if the Mueller report simply gets tossed in a drawer in Mr. Barr’s desk for all eternity, there is already sufficient material out there to let the House exercise its newly rediscovered oversight responsibilities and get to the bottom of what happened between the Trump campaign and Russia during the 2016 election. Remember, Richard Nixon was not indicted, and there was no commensurate special counsel report in the Watergate scandal. There doesn’t need to be one here to right wrongs so egregious they were apparently worth lying about.Caroline Fredrickson (@crfredrickson) is the president of the American Constitution Society and author of “Under the Bus: How Working Women Are Being Run Over” and the forthcoming “The Democracy Fix: How to Win the Fight for Fair Rules, Fair Courts and Fair Elections.”The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.An earlier version of this essay misstated the status of George Papadopoulos, a foreign policy adviser during Donald Trump's 2016 campaign. He served 12 days in prison for lying to the F.B.I. and was released; he is not currently behind bars.

Supported byBy Cade MetzHALF MOON BAY, Calif. — When a news article revealed that Clarifai was working with the Pentagon and some employees questioned the ethics of building artificial intelligence that analyzed video captured by drones, the company said the project would save the lives of civilians and soldiers.“Clarifai’s mission is to accelerate the progress of humanity with continually improving A.I.,” read a blog post from Matt Zeiler, the company’s founder and chief executive, and a prominent A.I. researcher. Later, in a news media interview, Mr. Zeiler announced a new management position that would ensure all company projects were ethically sound.As activists, researchers, and journalists voice concerns over the rise of artificial intelligence, warning against biased, deceptive and malicious applications, the companies building this technology are responding. From tech giants like Google and Microsoft to scrappy A.I. start-ups, many are creating corporate principles meant to ensure their systems are designed and deployed in an ethical way. Some set up ethics officers or review boards to oversee these principles.But tensions continue to rise as some question whether these promises will ultimately be kept. Companies can change course. Idealism can bow to financial pressure. Some activists — and even some companies — are beginning to argue that the only way to ensure ethical practices is through government regulation.“We don’t want to see a commercial race to the bottom,” Brad Smith, Microsoft’s president and chief legal officer, said at the New Work Summit in Half Moon Bay, Calif., hosted last week by The New York Times. “Law is needed.”The new ethics position at Clarifai never materialized. As this New York City start-up pushed further into military applications and facial recognition services, some employees grew increasingly concerned their work would end up feeding automated warfare or mass surveillance. In late January, on a company message board, they posted an open letter asking Mr. Zeiler where their work was headed.A few days later, Mr. Zeiler held a companywide meeting, according to three people who spoke on the condition that they not be identified for fear of retaliation. He explained that internal ethics officers did not suit a small company like Clarifai. And he told the employees that Clarifai technology would one day contribute to autonomous weapons.Clarifai specializes in technology that instantly recognizes objects in photos and video. Policymakers call this a “dual-use technology.” It has everyday commercial applications, like identifying designer handbags on a retail website, as well as military applications, like identifying targets for drones.This and other rapidly advancing forms of artificial intelligence can improve transportation, health care and scientific research. Or they can feed mass surveillance, online phishing attacks and the spread of false news.As companies and governments deploy these A.I. technologies, researchers are also realizing that some systems are woefully biased. Facial recognition services, for instance, can be significantly less accurate when trying to identify women or someone with darker skin. Other systems may include security holes unlike any seen in the past. Researchers have shown that driverless cars can be fooled into seeing things that are not really there.All this means that building ethical artificial intelligence is an enormously complex task. It gets even harder when stakeholders realize that ethics are in the eye of the beholder.As some Microsoft employees protest the company’s military contracts, Mr. Smith said that American tech companies had long supported the military and that they must continue to do so. “The U.S. military is charged with protecting the freedoms of this country,” he told the conference. “We have to stand by the people who are risking their lives.”Though some Clarifai employees draw an ethical line at autonomous weapons, others do not. Mr. Zeiler argued that autonomous weapons will ultimately save lives because they would be more accurate than weapons controlled by human operators. “A.I. is an essential tool in helping weapons become more accurate, reducing collateral damage, minimizing civilian casualties and friendly fire incidents,” he said in a statement.Google worked on the same Pentagon project as Clarifai, and after a protest from company employees, the tech giant ultimately ended its involvement. But like Clarifai, as many as 20 other companies have worked on the project without bowing to ethical concerns.After the controversy over its Pentagon work, Google laid down a set of “A.I. principles” meant as a guide for future projects. But even with the corporate rules in place, some employees left the company in protest. The new principles are open to interpretation. And they are overseen by executives who must also protect the company’s financial interests.“You functionally have situations where the foxes are guarding the henhouse,” said Liz Fong-Jones, a former Google employee who left the company late last year.In 2014, when Google acquired DeepMind, perhaps the world’s most important A.I. lab, the company agreed to set up an external review board that would ensure the lab’s research would not be used in military applications or otherwise unethical projects. But five years later, it is still unclear whether this board even exists.Google, Microsoft, Facebook and other companies have created organizations like the Partnership on A.I. that aim to guide the practices of the entire industry. But these operations are largely toothless.The most significant changes have been driven by employee protests, like the one at Google, and pointed research from academics and other independent experts. After Amazon employees protested the sale of facial recognition services to police departments and various academic studies highlighted the bias that plagues these services, Amazon and Microsoft called for government regulation in this area.“People are recognizing there are issues, and they are recognizing they want to change them,” said Meredith Whittaker, a Google employee and the co-founder of the AI Now Institute, a research institute that examines the social implications of artificial intelligence. But she also told the conference that this change was slow to happen, as the forces of capitalism continued to drive these companies toward greater profits.Employees at Clarifai worry that the same technological tools that drive facial recognition will ultimately lead to autonomous weapons — and that flaws in these tools will open a Pandora’s box of problems. “We in the industry know that technology can be compromised. Hackers hack. Bias is unavoidable,” read the open letter to Mr. Zeiler.Thousands of A.I. researchers from across the industry have signed a separate open letter saying they will oppose autonomous weapons.The Pentagon has said that artificial intelligence built by the likes of Google and Clarifai has not been used for offensive purposes. And it is now building its own set of ethical principles, realizing it needs the support of industry, which has snapped up most of the world’s top A.I. researchers in recent years.But many policy experts say they believe these principles are unlikely to hold any more influence than those laid down at the big corporations, especially because the Pentagon is motivated to keep pace with China, Russia and other international rivals as they develop similar technology. For that reason, some are calling for international treaties that would bar the use of autonomous weapons.In their open letter, the Clarifai employees said they were unsure whether regulation was the answer to the many ethical questions swirling around A.I. technology, arguing that the immediate responsibility rested with the company itself.“Regulation slows progress, and our species needs progress to survive the many threats that face us today,” they wrote, addressing Mr. Zeiler and the rest of the company. “We need to be ethical enough to be trusted to make this technology on our own, and we owe it to the public to define our ethics clearly.”But their letter did not have the desired effect. In the days after Mr. Zeiler explained that Clarifai would most likely contribute to autonomous weapons, the employee who wrote the letter and was originally tapped to serve as an ethics adviser, Liz O’Sullivan, left the company.Researchers and activists like Ms. Whittaker see this as a moment when tech employees can use their power to drive change. But they have also said this must happen outside tech companies as well as within.“We need regulation,” Ms. Whittaker said, before name-dropping Microsoft’s chief legal officer. “Even Brad Smith says we need regulation.”

Supported byBy Nicholas FandosWASHINGTON — The House Intelligence Committee’s first hearing since Robert S. Mueller III completed his report had barely begun when the panel’s Republicans moved en masse to demand the resignation of the committee’s chairman.It went downhill from there.The acrimony on display Thursday as the intelligence committee tried to resume its work on Russia’s intervention in the 2016 presidential election laid bare the bitter divide that persists in Congress even after Mr. Mueller, the special counsel, completed his 22-month investigation of the subject. The Republican demand and the barbed response of the committee’s chairman, Representative Adam B. Schiff, echoed well outside the wood-paneled House hearing room.Representative Kevin McCarthy, the House Republican leader, spent much of his weekly news conference comparing Mr. Schiff, a fellow Californian, to Senator Joseph R. McCarthy, who fueled fears in the 1950s that Communist spies had infiltrated the American government. Representative Michael R. Turner, Republican of Ohio, played the same card in the hearing room, fuming that Mr. Schiff would not accept Attorney General William P. Barr’s word that Mr. Mueller had not found the Trump campaign to have taken part in a conspiracy to undermine the election.“With McCarthyism,” a senator was “chasing after Russian Communists,” Mr. Turner, an Intelligence Committee member, said. “Now we have Schiff chasing after Russian collusion.”Undaunted, Mr. Schiff made clear he was not about to step down, nor was he about to absolve President Trump or his campaign from nefarious conduct with Moscow — especially without seeing Mr. Mueller’s report first. The Justice Department revealed on Thursday that the report came in at more than 300 pages, raising more questions about what information was behind the four-page summary released by Mr. Barr.Mr. Schiff had many questions of his own.“You might think that it’s O.K. that the president’s son-in-law sought to establish a secret back channel of communications with the Russians through a Russian diplomatic facility. I don’t think that’s O.K. You might think it’s O.K. that an associate of the president made direct contact with the G.R.U. through Guccifer 2.0 and WikiLeaks; that is considered a hostile intelligence agency,” Mr. Schiff said, referring to Russian military intelligence and a Russian intelligence hacker.He continued: “You might think that it’s O.K. that the national security-designate secretly conferred with the Russian ambassador about undermining U.S. sanctions. And you might think it’s O.K. he lied about it to the F.B.I. You might say that’s all O.K. You might say that’s just what you need to do to win. But I don’t think it’s O.K. I think it’s immoral. I think it’s unethical. I think it’s unpatriotic. And yes, I think it’s corrupt.”Democrats who now control the House say that they will accept Mr. Mueller’s findings, but as Mr. Schiff’s monologue indicated they are increasingly determined not to let go of what they see as a deeply troubling pattern of wrongdoing by Mr. Trump, his businesses and his administration.That has in turn enraged Republicans, who have happily embraced what they call Mr. Mueller’s absolution of Mr. Trump. They say Democrats will stop at nothing to ruin his presidency, and bristle at Democrats accusing them of turning a blind eye to the Russian threat. And at the center of their wrath is Mr. Schiff, whose doughy-faced demeanor hardly evokes an attack dog.“The findings of the special counsel conclusively refute your past and present assertions and have exposed you as having abused your position to knowingly promote false information, having damaged the integrity of this committee, and undermined faith in U.S. government institutions,” Representative K. Michael Conaway, Republican of Texas, said to Mr. Schiff.Reading from a letter signed by every Republican member of the committee, Mr. Conaway added, “Your actions both past and present are incompatible with your duties as chairman of this committee.”Mr. Trump intervened as well, accusing Mr. Schiff of “knowingly and unlawfully lying and leaking.” He “should be forced to resign from Congress!” the president wrote on Twitter.Mr. Schiff, clearly prepared for the ambush, argued that there was a difference between prosecutors proving a criminal conspiracy and the committee investigating evidence of foreign compromise. The committee’s own investigative work would go on, he signaled, though outside the hearing room he has indicated that work may well need to shift course once Mr. Mueller’s findings are fully understood.Democrats backed him. “History will clarify what has happened,” said Representative Jim Himes, Democrat of Connecticut.Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California praised Mr. Schiff as “calm, professional, patriotic,” and said his work as the chairman of the committee has been “in stark contrast to the irresponsible and almost criminal behavior of the previous chair of the committee,” Representative Devin Nunes, Republican of California.“What is the president afraid of — that he would go after a chairman of the committee?” she said. “I think they’re just scaredy-cats. They just don’t know what to do.”The party gave Mr. Schiff a more formal nod of confidence this week as well. On Wednesday, the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, House Democrats’ campaign arm, announced that Mr. Schiff would serve as a key fund-raiser for the caucus’s most vulnerable members to help put together a firewall to project the House majority.Out of the glare of the television cameras, Democrats are somewhat more circumspect.“In the heat of the political moment just as the Republicans wanted to try to convict Hillary Clinton in the public sphere, Democrats probably contributed to the expectations that the outcome would be worse for the president than it was,” Mr. Himes said in an interview a day ahead of the hearing.Notably sitting out the fight was Mr. Nunes, whom Democrats have accused of many of the same abuses that Republicans accused Mr. Schiff of on Thursday and whose resignation they asked for last year. Mr. Nunes’s sustained work last term to scrutinize the origins of the Russia investigation and accuse federal law enforcement officials of acting out of anti-Trump political bias sent convulsions through what in quieter times is one of Congress’s more bipartisan bodies.“We should not be used as a platform to spread false information and bizarre conspiracies,” Mr. Nunes said on Thursday in brief remarks before deferring to Mr. Conaway.Thursday’s showdown came, ironically enough, during a hearing with four subject experts on “Putin’s Playbook: The Kremlin’s Use of Oligarchs, Money and Intelligence in 2016 and Beyond.” Down the line, the witnesses warned that Vladimir V. Putin’s Russia would only grow bolder in its efforts to destabilize western democracies, including the United States.“The bad news is that there is a new ideological fight between Putinism and the West, and it has only just begun,” said Michael McFaul, an ambassador to Moscow under former President Barack Obama. “In my estimation, we as a country are underestimating it.”The whole episode offered a sharp contrast to the Senate Intelligence Committee, which with a yawning pace and no-leaks team has continued apace with its own Russia investigation. The committee’s chairman, Senator Richard M. Burr of North Carolina, said this week that he aimed to finish witness interviews in the coming weeks and issue the last in a series of reports on the panel’s findings in the coming months.On Thursday, as Democrats and Republicans in the House traded recriminations, the Senate panel quietly called back for another interview with Jared Kushner, Mr. Trump’s son-in-law and senior adviser.Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article referred incorrectly to a congressman from Texas. He is K. Michael Conaway, not Michael K. Conaway. The error was repeated in a photo caption.Sheryl Gay Stolberg and Catie Edmondson contributed reporting.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.

